There are very few games i can spend 10 hours with and not get bored. even though i'm gonna get around 2000 deaths because im so bad i still really enjoyed 95% of the game
My favorite game of all time! It can be challenging and frustrating at times but this game is a master piece. Great lore, great world, awesome looking enemies and bosses. Highly recommend!
Absolute masterpiece, Offers an insane amount of content for a very cheap price, everyone must play elden ring in their life.
I only just got started (7 hours in!) but so far, it has been an amazing, stutter free experience. Looking forward to playing it for the next couple hundred hours.
this game saved my life. 10/10 visual style, lore, gameplay, rpg aspects. there were couple of things that aren't perfect, but 11/10 moments compensate for all these little things.
I can't understand those who say 2022 god of war was right. God of war is never a bad game but it is very faithful to its essence. Elden ring is a game that feels both innovative and great.
The first souls game ever that I had the nerves and energy to finish. It's not bad, that's for sure. But like all the souls games it is insanely overhyped in my opinion. For a 10/10 open world game there are too many things missing. There might be a story, but after 60 hours of play time I have pretty much no idea of what was happening other than me becoming the "Elden Lord" after slaying about 40 bosses with the same jump attack strategy. It's still locked to 60fps which is a no go for me. No PS5 controller support on PC as well (it works but you only see the XBOX signs, why??). Also I don't think it's an indicator **** single player game when I have to read ten guides online and watch multiple youtube videos in order to understand the builds or basically how almost anything in this game even works on a basic level. Would give this a 7/10 but will give it a 6 to counteract the crazy fanboyism and overhype from so many people here.
a massive gorgeous game with an absurd amount of great content to explore ruined by clunky dated combat
Hundreds of hours later, several runs and different builds: this game is simply a masterpiece and there's nothing else that needs to be added.
Elden Ring is the quintessential open world souls-like experience. You can play thruugh this game and spend hundred of hours exploring every knook and cranny, getting every item, trying multiple builds. You can also play one build, blitzdungeons for the challenges and focus on beating bosses. No matter what Elden Ring delivers in droves.
Combat 5/5 Music 5/5 Story 5/5 Graphics 5/5 Environment 5/5 The already perfect formula of the Dark Souls series but added to an open world, if there's 1 complaint it would be that it's by far the easiest of the games from FromSoft, the Open World, the jump button & summoning's basically make it impossible to be stuck on boss. You can have most summoning's just kill the boss, you can train in a dozen different areas to level up & jumping around adds so much mobility that most of us are not use to.
On the outside looking in this game is a stunning masterpiece however no game is perfect, and neither is Elden Ring sadly. I would recommend trying the game if you were on the fence about this genre in the past. However just know that the frame stutters become quite annoying during boss fights where you need quick actions to dispatch your foes. My only other Gripe with the game is the abysmal coop experience. The dropped connections from the servers for either trying to invite friends to play, or even invaders not being able to fully connect is just mind numbingly painful to sit through. Stop making coop a chore and just make it as fun as the rest of the game!
The game is extremely well made with a fun and massive world. The game is the same as the other dark souls games but much more polished and have more variety.
This game an absolutely can’t miss for souls or soulslike lover, in fact it bring me to this world of souls and soulslike game and im hooked !
I've never been a huge fan of Souls and Souls-like games, but I've always been intrigued by Elden Ring and I was genuinely interested to play it. To my disappointment though, it was really lacking to me in many aspects. First, the game play, very average and lacking any innovation - it's fine for a Souls game but that's it, no new, interesting or cool mechanics anywhere, and no fun in discovering and mastering them, just lots of slowly dodging, parrying and hitting your foes - there are literally bugs in other games that are better than actual mechanics in this one; it remains undetailed, boring, slow, heavy and just not fun (I like to move and enjoy action-packed and dynamic game play that implements well the game's mechanics, I don't want to roll for hours around a boss and sporadically trying to hit it: that's BORING). Second, the open world, which is potentially beautiful, with wonderful scenarios, but unfortunately is held back by being very inorganic, inconsistent and lacking in design and inspiration, with many badly placed, out-of-context elements (e. g. enemy fields and bosses/minibosses) and completely lacking basic features, like proper weather and night-day cycles (which is kind of there but only when resting in checkpoints); plus, the world lacks completely of any proper interactivity: everything is extremely static and unexciting. Third, the aesthetic and overall design, very monotone and extremely boring, with no differences whatsoever between the environments, which are very nice, but not at all outstanding; everything is very grey and sad, which just makes this game all the more sad, boring and unfun. Fourth, animations and details, which are fine, but also very rough and unrefined (and are all the same). Fifth, the features, UI, and lack thereof, are either needlessly complicated, like the crafting of weapons and potions, or completely absent, like any kind of quest tracking system (which is fundamental in an open-world game), plus the game's UI is very badly designed, convoluted and unintuitive. The only point I view positively is the overall technical performance, which is good for a game this big. Other points I didn't mention are good enough for me to not complain. Overall, is it a good game? Sure, but in my view it's far from being the huge masterpiece it's supposed to be, since it seriously lacks any meaningful innovation in game play, mechanics and aesthetics - if you like the Souls series and Souls-like genre, go for it, you'll likely be satisfied, but keep in mind that this game will never really get out of its niche and will never make it as a real icon and as one of videogame history's greatest.
There may be Turkish language support. Turkish language support Turkish language support
Beautiful world. Terrible UI. Sluggish movement. Janky combat. Sponge enemies. Mid storytelling. Some fun to be had though.
Best soul-like games made ever. I love soul games and elden ring this is what i dream about soullike games
There is just so many things to say about this game that I cannot explain there, this game is soooooooooooooooooooo GOOOD, masterclass masterpiece common fromsoft w, the versatility and exploration and build variety in this game is the best ive played and the world is sooo good with the peak art direction, it definitely deserved goty and the content and boss fight is peak, it does have performance issues and some hitbox and parkour issues but those are minor , thisgame is just too gud
This game is a masterpiece. The lore, the story, the gameplay, the music, literally everything in this game is perfect. This was my first Souls/Fromsoft game, and I went in completely blind. I can now safely say I am very interested in the Fromsoft games and plan to 100% all of them just as I did Elden Ring. This game was one of the first games that actually challenged me and I struggled on several bosses, and getting better and progressing through the story was so satisfying. I love this game so much, it's awesome. 9.5/10
The souls game formula refined to a tee with one of the greatest open worlds ever conceived.
Elden Ring masterfully combines the classic Souls gameplay with a vast open world filled with secrets and intriguing places to discover. The graphics are outstanding, with breathtaking landscapes and intricate details that enhance immersion, while exploration constantly rewards players with new surprises and stimulating challenges. The difficulty is high and relentless, demanding dedication and making it a title not suited for everyone—but it offers a unique sense of satisfaction for those who manage to overcome its hurdles. There are some technical issues, but nothing that detracts from the overall experience. Perfect for those seeking a challenging, deep, and immersive gaming adventure.
World building, gameplay, graphics, music, character creation, epic fight, adaptability, exploration, replayability, co-op, pvp raids, it's all here and it amounts to the best FromSoftware game. Never had a technical issue either.
I really enjoy playing elden ring. I see some issues with open world, like repetitive dungeons where at the end is few runes and item I don't need. Generally game is very good.
Its the typical FromSoft but the best version.. all the soulsborne-sekiro leads to this moment and its worth the hype. I played it twice now, different builds, diff. playstyle.. The REPLAYability of this game is a win.. it's easier also depends on the build. I went for a Samurai Double Katanas.. then Strength Guts build the next.. it was awesome... can't wait for the DLC
GOOD: art style, sense of progression levelling up/discovery/upgrading gear, difficulty level, music/soundtrack, boss design, replay value/diversity of builds BAD: graphics, storyline, quests/side quests/npcs, copy pasted enemies/bosses/caves/catacombs, open world=quantity>quality, combat=roll simulator, lifeless/dead world, pc settings/performance/input lag, crafting system
The open world makes no sense in this type of games. I would play only if I have played all Dark Souls games and really don't want to replay them.
Good open World Souls Game, perfect gameplay, ok grafic and beautiful world,
Good but Dark Souls 3 (and 1 and 2 also) is much better! Still no good co-op - FromSoftware cannot into good multiplayer mode: "Seamless Co-op" from Nexus Mods is must have to fun play with your friend!
Game is really good, good combat and lore, but it's also full of annoying things like really exhausting boss fights (mainly if you don't use spirit ashes), cheap enemies like those charriots inside catacombs and another annoying stuff. It gets really stressfull sometimes. But, it's a good gaming experience overall. It just demands more skill than average games and patience.
Short review. i have 65 hours on my playthrough. What a rule-breaking game this is! your expectations of games will be a little changed after experiencing the Elden Ring. I both love and hate this game, it requires patience, practice, and looking to others for help. The main game is puzzlingly massive (map, enemies, and weapons) although it is very difficult, this game is very rewarding when things go right. There is frustration and rage included in your playthrough, but after some time and a re-think you come back around and think of smarter and more sensible ways of progressing through the maze of bosses. This game is nothing like open worlds from Ubisoft, Bethesda, Obsidian. It is more related to Zelda BOTW but has a more serious darker setting. Everyone should play this, and everyone will likely experience the highs and lows of this game.
Perhaps one of the best games of all time. Only thing lacking is clear story telling but still has amazing world building. Amazing game.
I'M. SO. TIRED. I'm exhausted. It doesn't end. I think it still hasn't ended. It's too long. Yes, the game is amazing. There is not a bad thing that I can say about the gameplay, story, graphics... everything. But I am really tired. I am so tired of this game that I will wait a couple years before playing the DLC. Atmosphere 9/10, Story 8/10, Gameplay 10/10, Graphics 8/10.
I absolutely love Elden Ring; it’s the most fun I’ve ever had in a game. The open world is massive and full of secrets, with incredible bosses that keep me on the edge of my seat. The combat is fast, challenging, and so satisfying when you finally take down a tough enemy. I love exploring every corner, finding new weapons, and building my character. Elden Ring is pure excitement—it's an adrenaline rush every time I play!
Very good game, the exploration of the map and dungeons is really great, so many secrets, items, boss fight, it was an exciting experience ****'s too repetitive, after 5 dragons, 4 horsemens, etc... need to change !! and catacombs, i avoid them after finishing 5-6 of this.
its game of the year for a reason. really enjoyed how this is made how it changed from the last fromsoftware game. i believe an open world souls game is a great idea and miyazaki realllyy knew how to do it. 10/10 game for me. idk what would make me hate it. from the start of it to the end, there was nothing i hated. the rage that this game did to me was the funny rage, after i beat a boss i struggled on i get a sense of relief and accomplishment lol.
One of the best games ever made, any genre, any platform! No **** in-game store, no micro transactions. Just pure fun!!
elden ring is good and addicting and many build variation very playable story good no cap
I didn't finish it even after 80 hours of play because I'm so bad, but what artistic talent, what fantastic work, a must have.
Elden Ring has top-tier music that makes you feel like you've been given one more chance, satisfying combat that you appreciate getting used to, one of the greatest open-world designs I have ever seen, and I can't name more than two games that match this masterpiece. The art direction is jaw-dropping and worth many screenshots. The boss battles are epic and extremely rewarding. I purposefully died on some of the bosses in my first playthrough because I didn't want it to end. The secrets, the loot, the messages other players leave on the side of cliffs encouraging you to jump off for a secret item, which eventually just leads to an unnecessary death, the live ghosts of players playing in real time running around letting you know that you're not alone, the caves, the dungeons, the castles, and so much more that I do not want to spoil.
Dont play this madafaka **** ****. I dont recommend world's most overrated this game.
Just one word needed : Masterpiece. Especially if you actually 100% the game(achievement and all).
Malware was detected in the game's executable. Install this at your own risk.
Very low-level pictures.Boring explorationWithout guidance, it is easy to get lost.Very repetitive bossThe combat angle is very bad.
I would give it a 10 if it was not for the technical issues Fromsoft still have with their games, Elden Ring is capped at 60fps it has shader compilation stutters and some other less intrusive issues such a beautiful game should not have, I hope they improve on future releases there is only so much patience the PC gaming community can have no matter how good your game is (which it is a freaking masterpiece)
It's a terrible game, the bosses are so poorly designed, and it's very torturous to play.
The open world is boring, the graphics are outdated, the framerate is capped at 60 and many graphics and accessibility settings are missing. There should be difficulty settings for people with physical disabilities like me.
A keyboard alone can't capture the sheer beauty of this game. Elden Ring is a masterpiece
Despite of some trivial issue with this game, such as game balance and almost meaningless crafting system, Elden Ring redefines Soulike games. The gaming is astoundingly innovative and inspiring.
Easily one of the greatest games FromSoftware has ever made! Everything from the Lore to the boss encounters to the gorgeous environment is top of the line; I've come to expect nothing less from the legendary Miyazaki! Easily the greatest solo video game experience I've ever had!
It's a good game for me. The whole map can be walked around at will. There's also plenty of equipment and skills to keep the game interesting. But to be honest, this picture style is not what I can accept, and this plot, I did not understand much from the beginning to the end. They spread it all over the map. If you want to understand the whole story, you have to sort out the storyline yourself. But that's what I don't want to do. Ignoring this is actually a good game.
The Best Game of all Time thanks Fromsoftware for this Amazing expérience. I recommand this game for anyone likes Open World and RPG Games for the best challenge adventure.
Elden ring is great. Haven’t encountered any performance issues or bugs. Combat is generally great, but builds get insanely broken insanely easily. Most of the bosses are super fun, but the open world gets bland quick and the bajillion boss reskins get annoying too.
The best game I've ever played..I got the good ending also like the age of ****'t wait to play dlc erdtree shadow><
Best game ever only downside of the game is optimizations but even that can't get 1 point from this game
This was my first souls gamei i ever played, and i fell in love in it so i even got platinium. I really enjoyed the great open world, lots of activities, variety of builds and the free will that fromsoft gave us. The bosses are enjoyable except the elden best because he was a bit underwhelming. I really think if anybody want to play but are scared of the game difficulty you can really do whatever you like and match the game to your playstyle. I enjoyed the learning process in the game and that almost each death gave me some knowledge about what to do. Personally i recommend this game to anyone that want a bit of challenge and have a lot of great experience.
Great replayability, this game gains a lot on subsequent playthroughs. Completely unbalanced - can be the hardest or the easiest fromsoftware game ot there, which I find awsome - you can adjust difficulty however you like INSIDE the game. It is underwhelming in some aspect, like boss variety or side dungeon quality, but It's awsome time nontheless.
Truly a once in a lifetime experience, one that is going to simmer in our brains forever.
I've been a souls player for years. Unfortunately, this game is nothing but ****; They built the game solely on the SPAM of the enemies and not to make you drink life pots. That's why there are no fair fights at all. The worst dogs, 2 or 3 of them came and you died. FS knows the players' hatred of dogs, so they talked nonsense here too. This isn't a difficulty thing, this is complete nonsense. This wasn't the case in other games, they tried to figure out how to distract the player from the game, how to drive him crazy, in the name of difficulty. I bought the main game, but if I had known I would have returned it straight away. I won't buy the DLC either. It seems that the game's scores were thanks to the hype.
This is how action RPGs are supposed to be, take notes everybody. This is the pinnacle of gameplay and world-building. It really is Miyazaki's magnum opus.
The result of compiling years of experience in making such perfect franchising is truly the embodiment of what a perfect souls-like open-world game would look like. Not as all-around perfect as DS3 or Bloodborne, but another masterpiece iconic title from fromsoftware. The perfect souls to introduce to a non-souls player. Truly amazing. 10/10 when taking the DLC with the main game. It honors the names of DS3 and BB.
Massively overrated and disappointing for any Dark Souls fan. I had high hopes but the DLC strengthens my opinion on this game. Fromsoft took everything bad from the previous games mindlessly put it here. They absolutely didn't learn from their mistakes. The fairness of the bosses isn't a point anymore. They're far too fast, it's like they've tried to make another Sekiro-like with parry based combat but either forgot that half-way through or someone accidentally added any bosses past a certain point for a scrapped game here (1 of the bosses actually is a scrapped boss from sekiro which makes this theory that much believable). The worst part of the community is they will 100% avoid this criticism and just say "git gud". And I have, I've loved every other fromsoft game for it's difficulty, here it's just **** thrown together to make a hard game. Some moves straight-up cannot be dodged, mostly combos that are followed multiple times too fast for the medium-roll to work so you always end up getting hit 1-2 times no matter how good you are. Some of the grab moves one-shot so you wait there for a good 5-10 seconds for the animation to end watching it eat through your health like nothing. They didn't bother play-testing. The moves are awfully telegraphed so you have absolutely no idea what the boss is doing until you get hit. The game is bloated to the point that it feels like a slog. -Stupidly large locations with no points of interests. -Reused bosses. If you see a boss in an open arena it has 5 versions somewhere elsewhere. -Reused dungeons. They all feel the same with maybe 4 different gimmicks that constantly repeat themself. -Reused enemies. Because why would they bother making every location unique rather than favoring quantity over quality. The developers didn't even bother to not make this look like a cashgrab. Quantity over quality is the best way to put it. Disappointing.
Without a doubt, the best Souls and best RPG I have played the last decade, I will never forget the amazing experience I had playingthis game.
The game is frankly weak. can I start with the cons that outweigh the pros - empty open world copying bosses and mobs from dark souls, although this is a new universe and game it is very difficult to follow the path planned by the developers because if you find the boss later, you will be too strong for him and will kill him the first time, an open world is not suitable for this genre quests, as always, in the games of this studio are rubbish, if in DS they could be completed intuitively, then 0.1 percent of players will pass without guides, you probably need to get into the head of babadzaki and find out where the quest character is standing this time there are few good bosses, 8 bosses come to mind, and it’s funny to even call the rest bosses lack of a normal local plot and the presence of global **** about gods and aliens advantages of the game + beautiful locations a sea of various interesting weapons and spells 8 good bosses and I especially liked the capital, unfortunately this is the only location that could impress me
Incredible environment art and lot of new type of weapon and new boss, you must try!
I believe that this game will be a point of refference for the "perfect" game. This game is just so good, it will go into history as one of the absolute best game for the past 25 years.
boring choppy gameplay, no real direction on where you're supposed to go, you either spend 300 hours mindlessly riding around in a horse looking for items or search absolutely everything on a wiki, and its not like there are any great wikis at that
This rank is for final boss. Worst experience of entire series. How can you make a boss more frustrating and disgusting?
An extraordinary experience in this game which is a Souls Like and from software are still strong for making games with such a universe, just a shame that on the PC version the optimization ****
I put in 143 hours in this game and I'm pretty sure I will put in more. Just a masterpiece from every way you can look at it.
at first it may make us frustated.. but after a while you will usurped unto its world... with many types and atmosphere world but still linger the taste of darkness..
Fromsoftware's best release yet. Along with bloodborne this game is one of humanity's best creations
Play the game, love it. spread it. Giving my friend a try, they try, they buy they love it too.. Good luck dying many times, practice make it prefect...
Greatest Game of All Time without a doubt we dont even need any comment on it play and you will see it and dont you ever cry about game being hard. Not only ''get gud'' but there is other million ways to make the game easier so stop being a crybaby about it
Very beautiful and interesting game. Huge world, dozens of weapons and builds, amazing style. Real Dark Souls in the open world. Some bosses caused great difficulties. I was very pleased after finishing the game.
this game is on whole different level its THE BEST open world game (in my opinion) and the difficulty is balanced a must play in my book
The game is really good and the nine is only because of the fact that the game doesn't support ultrawide monitor
It is not a game for everybody, so I suggest looking up the game style online before buying. But this is a must-buy for fans of the genre and other FromSoftware's games.
So good. I can't stop playing Elden Ring. It feels so great to play and there is so much to discover. It's one of the greatest games I have ever played. By far. Amazing. All time great.
Peak gameplay, Peak lore, Peak game exploration, Peak world, Mid combat, Mid optional bosses, Peak sound design, Peak OSTs, overall best game
Stunning open world with a lot of options when it comes to builds. You can go super tanky or go for a high dps approach. Amazing lore (that you probably have to watch a couple videos to be able to follow). Great overall, still in my first playthrough and working for that 100% in achievements. Again, absolutely stunning.
It's pretty good but I haven't got why people think it's the best ever. Might change the review if I do
10/10 all around. A fantastic RPG that does everything right from start to finish.
The most enjoyable game I've ever played, ever. Don't know how Miyazaki can have this idea in his mind and just do it flawlessly and make a perfect game.
Have to give it 9/10 because of npc endings, like PLEASE let them be happy, at least one of them... The jar guy is the goat btw
Everyone saying this game is hard are complete losers who dont take the time to learn game mechanics like the mimic tear summon is completely overpowered it makes the game 10 times easier and realistically if you have a good build boss fights should take 2 hours at the most genuinely I'd read through most of these comments and all the negative comments are just complete sore losers who come here and say the game is too hard like what do you want a participation ribbon get the f*** out of here the game is supposed to be hard.
Simply upgraded Dark Souls with very well designed open world. Fantastic world settings and lore, great exploration, challenging enemies and boss battle. So much build customization and thus have very good replayability. One of the best game ever made. Just Masterpiece.
It showed me that I could play the soul game of FromSoftware, and the feeling of exhilaration as I defeated each boss was incredible.
It's just the best gaming experience I've ever had in years. I could play this game all day and not get tired of it
No gameplay no quests ctrlc ctrcv from othe gamesThe same things people critic other games are praised here???
Medicore. Played 100+ hours doing most content at launch. Slow clunky combat. 60 fps locked. High end system cant play on anything higher than a high/medium mix or it wont hold 60 fps. Weird map design. No enemy progression. Wandering feels aimless and bad. Almost no story replaced by lots of lore. Items feel bad due to having to have a whole build to feel good. But it does have an extreme amount of content and lots of memorable enemies. Not as hard as most people say.
Can't explain how good this game, it should have a rating of 100 out of 100, anyone hating on it just has a skill issue cause there is nothing to hate on this masterpiece, if the game is not your type then refund don't rate it that's the thing I hate about these stupid people.
Elden Ring is the most epic, most ambitious game I have ever played. I think this game goes beyond a recomendation. I beat this game and all of its bosses (that didn’t regard a secret quest line concerning a 4 handed person that I didn’t find on my entire play through) with a standard build without looking anything up. I did not use summons or take any help. I played through with a strength build like I always have. There has been some controversy around the game’s difficulty but I liked that it is the hardest of souls games. These games have always revolved around understanding enemy behavior and animations. This game takes that and cranks it up to 11. I never felt like anything was impossible and I even beat Malenia at level 120 in 3.5 hours. (which is a lot but it’s an optional boss so I never needed to get stuck) This is the most beautiful game I have ever played. Every place just feels like I am stepping into a whole new world. The exploration is insanely fun and rewarding. You explore for weapons and levels and then use that in the legacy dungeons. Some people have said that the double battles are stupid and that reusing bosses is lazy. I have to agree with that to some extent but honestly you can always skip bosses like these. I know I did it a few times and I came back if I needed xp. This is true until you get to the Godskin duo. Godskin duo was not the worst thing it the world. You have to hide behind pillars and use the surroundings as well as you can. You can often posture break or get good hits in one of them while the other is behind. You always have to keep your guard up and be ready to dodge. It is harder but I don’t believe it’s that bad. It’s like a C-tier fight to me. Just really basic and needs some good use of the arena. Overall I don’t agree with the many criticisms that the game’s difficulty has gotten and I also think that the game’s overall quality is exceptionally high. I know some won’t agree with me but I am fine with that. I loved this game.
I loved dark souls 1 and 3.I heard the great reviews of this game calling it the first half of ds1 combined with the base game of ds3 and open world of (my favourite game) botw, finally got it running on my pc and thought that this would be the best game I had ever played, it’s not. I am 17 hours in and just reached the Main atlas plateau and cannot continue.I will first try to sing this game some praises. I love the art style, graphics, varying builds (which I thought was lacking in ds3), the vast amount of weapon types, the boss runbacks and some bosses move sets, but I just don't like the game **** biggest gripes I have of Elden ring (in descending order) is the open world, repeating bosses/ enemies and the balances. To me Elden ring’s open world lacks the same charm as botw’s does, it feels like dark souls 1 but bigger, this may sound like a good thing, but the scale just exacerbates the flaws. In ds1 I always felt like I knew where I was going and why I was going there and even if I went somewhere where I wasn't supposed to, I could do or learn something substantial. An example of this is where you may find yourself walking to the graveyard and then potentially further into the catacombs like I did but it’s completely obvious that you don't need to be there because of the fat ass in your face staircase leading to the undead burg Infront of firelink shrine, in Elden ring I had no idea where or why I was going anywhere after Margit because of the massive scale and many paths. In ds1 it was either go to new londo or graveyard and realize you're too low level and go to undead burg yet because of the massive open world in Elden ring there are so many alternative paths that can be taken leading to me just not knowing where to go at all and not being able to perfectly remember the interconnected map like in ds1, there is just so many places to go yet there is a defined way you must play the game to open gates to progress ( unlike in breath of the wild where if you don't want to defeat the great divine beasts you can just fight Ganon and finish the game in around an hour if you're good enough which I loved) For me this makes it feel as if the overworld in Elden ring is just a facilitator to farming and levelling up but there are some methods of farming that are just superior to all the others so why not just do that. I also don't particularly like the "if you see it you can get to it" approach of the game, whilst this might be true like in botw , the difficulty of souls type games less incentivises me to explore that much due to losing runes but that isn't particularly detrimental to the explorational experience as I can just git gud or run past the enemies. The bigger, probably needy and whiny, complaint I have about it is that there are places that I don’t know how to get to. By this I mean that I will see something, for example the big mountain at liurnia, and try for so long to get to the top of it just to find out that apparently that’s a late game area and I can’t get there yet. So, what's the point of making it an open world game if I can’t get somewhere? This is probably a really nit-picky critique, but I feel as if it’s a valuable one because the constant "oh I need to get here but I can’t" situation is much more prevalent here than in botw or totk where I can just climb or make something to get somewhere making the Zelda open world feel like a constant puzzle, but the Elden ring feels like there are massive barriers. The repeating bosses also leads to a less magical experience when playing these games. Just like ds1 this game has repeating bosses but where the bosses in ds1 become normal enemies to show you how powerful you have become (taurus demon and Capra demon in demon runes) Elden ring just puts them in again and again. I am no longer put in awe of seeing these large spectacles of huge dragons or terrifying beasts that I can learn I'm just bored and want to get to the next proper mainline boss, which I do admittedly think (apart from some **** 1 shot moves) do very well, (Margit being probably my 3rd favourite souls’ boss after sister Friede and Gael).I guess how I feel about this game is that I was promised the first half of ds1 with the boss quality of ds3 and open world of botw but so far, I feel as if I have gotten the 2nd half of ds1 with the open world of Minecraft and a few amazing bosses
Why should i sit on guides and replay a lot of time and waste time on empty running. DLC that requires guides. Wasting a lot of time replaying. I can't beat the game, about half of the players can't beat the game or run the DLC, let alone beat it. This is equal to theft. Games like this not about player's skills, it's about stupid learning timings. The game should be normal - smart, not lazy stupid amateur's product for fools. Why there is people that buy games on PS or xbox? Especially like this? What wrong with you? On PC you have 4k 60fps and all windows functions. Do you play on 30 inch? Don't you know that there are 50-60-80 inch screens? On PS and Xbox there is a regional restriction of access to the game to voice acting languages and even subtitles. I sincerely recommend that people read reviews where the ratings are lower than the enthusiastic “critics”, or even bribed, because they are real. This is already known and tested in the gaming community. Even on Steam there are a lot of purchased positive reviews. And there are players that simply like something in the game and don't want to look on the problems, they don’t think about fair gameplay, balance and believability, plausibility and common sense, availability to people, they don't think about you. They see only one side. If you want to know exactly what awaits you in the game on which you are spending real time, real hard-earned money, with which you could help someone, do something useful in life, then read reviews that write about problems. Today's games are not at the 10 point level. For example, when I give 10 points, I explain why and this is very rare and you have to turn on your brain and decide if it's true reason and I try to write all the shortcomings and problems. Moreover, take care of yourself and your children and not get caught up in the excitement of buying skins and any nonsense. The developers are not your friends, they are looking for ways to encourage you to spend money, they sit in the office and while you are playing with their toys, they come up with all sorts of tricks to make money from you with the most minimal effort. Let the players sit on the guides, why try to make fair, interesting gameplay.. And if you have a problem, they won't care at all they won't help you, so don't be stupid. Don’t buy games at the time of release, you can’t know what’s in it and at that moment it’s not ready, it may have a lot of bugs and it’s probably not optimized.
Best souls game universally with the most replay ability. The lore , the map , the combat Everything has been top notch
Elden Ring offers a captivating and immersive gaming experience that appeals to both fans of FromSoftware's previous titles and newcomers to the genre. The game's blend of challenging gameplay, exploration, storytelling, and world-building sets a new standard for open-world RPGs.
An absolute monument added to the videogame industry, the game is vast , epic , fun and yes often hard but it's what makes this game unique.A feeling that will be hard to get in another game. The story is amazing if you are looking forward to learn about the world, you are leaved in total freedom , nobody is here to tell you what to do or the way you do it.
Lame game that people hyped up way more than it should be. The story is borderline not there, and its just wandering around and fighting ridiculously looking monsters with no direction with terrible combat.
The best souls like of all time, there has never been so much content. Miyazaki is a genius of our time
I really love Elden Ring. The gameplay, especially with the greatsword, was fantastic. The world they've built is breathtaking, with so much to explore—it feels endless. The story is intriguing, although I found it challenging to fully grasp without watching lore videos or using guides. The only downside was the Malenia fight, which felt impossible for my character. After many attempts, I got frustrated and ended up finishing the game using the mimic tear after beating her and the last three bosses. That fight really dampened my experience, but overall, Elden Ring is still a solid 10 out of 10 for me."
bad game. darksouls series is best frenchise ,but Elden ring is ****. huge map with same mecanism. boring game.
Elden Ring is an amazing game with steep learning curve to it. There's a lot to do and look for in the world of Elden Ring which will only have you coming back to look for more. My only real issue with the game are the bosses, many times bosses delay their swings which adds a fake level of difficulty.
It's terribly unoptimized for PC, just a low quality port. Thank God I was able to refundit.
Not Just the Best Souls Game, It's One of the Best Games! (Not to mention the gameplay and open world, you have to play and see.)
This is my first game in the genre and I'm really impressed with the mechanics, the graphics and the difficulty of the bosses and enemies in general. I can really recommend the game to everyone, even if it is the first of the genre.
Just amazing! Huge and detailed world - can't wait for DLC. 140h for platinum trophy.
Elden Ring, the much-anticipated collaboration between FromSoftware and George R.R. Martin has taken the gaming world by storm. As a long-time fan of the Soulsborne series, I approached Elden Ring with both excitement and trepidation, wondering if it could possibly live up to the monumental expectations. What I found was a game that not only met those expectations but transcended them, delivering an experience that is as profoundly moving as it is challenging.From the moment you step into the Lands Between, it’s clear that Elden Ring is a labor of love. The world is vast and meticulously crafted, with every region telling its own story through environmental details and carefully placed lore items. George R.R. Martin’s influence is palpable in the rich tapestry of history and mythology that underpins the game. The narrative unfolds in layers, encouraging players to explore and piece together the intricate puzzle of the world’s past and present. This method of storytelling, a hallmark of FromSoftware’s games, reaches new heights here, blending mystery with revelation in a way that is deeply satisfying.Elden Ring’s gameplay is a masterful evolution of the Soulsborne formula. The combat is as tight and demanding as ever, requiring precision, strategy, and adaptability. What sets Elden Ring apart is its open-world design, which offers unprecedented freedom and encourages exploration. The addition of the Spectral Steed, Torrent, transforms traversal, allowing players to cover vast distances swiftly and engage in mounted combat. This innovation adds a dynamic layer to the already rich combat system, making encounters feel fresh and **** game’s difficulty is a topic of much discussion, but it’s worth noting that Elden Ring provides a variety of tools to aid players. The summoning system, which allows for cooperative play, is more accessible than ever, and the inclusion of Spirit Ashes provides an additional layer of strategy. These elements make the game more approachable without sacrificing the core challenge that fans cherish.Visually, Elden Ring is breathtaking. The art direction is nothing short of spectacular, with each area offering distinct and unforgettable aesthetics. From the hauntingly beautiful ruins of Limgrave to the eerie majesty of the Erdtree, the game is a feast for the eyes. The attention to detail is astounding, with every nook and cranny packed with secrets waiting to be **** audio design is equally impressive. The score, composed by Yuka Kitamura and Tsukasa Saitoh, perfectly complements the game’s atmosphere, ranging from hauntingly melancholic to triumphantly epic. Sound effects are meticulously crafted, enhancing the immersion and making every action feel weighty and significant.Elden Ring offers deep character customization, allowing players to tailor their experience to their preferred playstyle. The range of available weapons, spells, and abilities is vast, providing a level of flexibility that is unmatched. The character progression system is intuitive yet deep, rewarding experimentation and thoughtful planning. This depth extends to the game’s NPCs, whose stories and quests add layers of meaning and consequence to the player’s **** narrative of Elden Ring is a dark and captivating tale of ambition, loss, and redemption. It explores themes of power, corruption, and the cyclical nature of history with a poignancy that is rare in video games. The characters you meet are complex and multifaceted, their fates intertwined with the larger narrative in ways that are often surprising and moving. The game’s ending, or rather endings, are thought-provoking and offer a sense of closure that is both satisfying and open to interpretation.Elden Ring is a triumph, a game that pushes the boundaries of what an open-world RPG can be. It seamlessly blends FromSoftware’s signature gameplay with a richly detailed world and a narrative that resonates on a deeply emotional level. The result is a game that is not only a joy to play but also a profound experience that stays with you long after the credits **** an era where many games are content to follow established formulas, Elden Ring dares to innovate, to challenge, and to inspire. It is a testament to the power of video games as an art form and a reminder of why we fell in love with gaming in the first place. Whether you are a veteran of the Soulsborne series or a newcomer to FromSoftware’s worlds, Elden Ring is a journey that you will not want to miss.
I enjoyed a lot of Sekiro's gameplay, Bloodborne's ambiance and story, and DS3's overall vibe as a game. I had Elden Ring on my wishlist for almost two years, and when I finally got it, I was **** combat in Elden Ring quickly becomes monotonous. Once you acquire a good weapon, which requires some initial effort, you tend to stick with it for the rest of the game. This is because there are only a few truly effective weapons, and upgrading a weapon is such an investment that farming materials to level up another one feels **** game features a wide variety of enemies, but unfortunately, about 70% of them share the same moveset and slow behavior, making them easy to defeat in 2-3 hits. The most interesting enemies are the faster and more aggressive ones, but even they become repetitive after the first **** story is almost non-existent unless you delve into secondary quests, which often feel like you're just running errands.I wish this game were as engaging as Sekiro, Bloodborne, or Dark Souls 3. Those games reward exploration and provide a sense of progression through gameplay, rather than relying solely on character stats.
This game is not for everyone. Its unforgiving and will kick your ass. But to anyone who genuinely thinks this game isn't unique and didn't set the bar for triple A game developers, you genuinely didn't get it. Again, these types of games aren't for everyone, but if you can't admit at the bare minimum that this was one of the best games released in the last decade, you are either purposely faulting it because you weren't good, or like I said earlier, you just didn't get it. Saying "the game is bland" just proves you couldn't bother to explore for more than an hour. This game is the literal opposite of bland. And to all the people who didn't get it, I'm sorry you missed out on the best action RPG game in the last 20 years. I'm really glad I'm not you. Like a wise man once said..... "git gud"
An incredibly long, beautiful, sad, and frustrating game. More lore than some real life countries, and an insane amount of build and player custamization. A must play for anyone
this game uses the "open-world souls game" formula that I think is bad, but they implemented it the best they could.Classic souls game with **** nice.
I mean dude, it doesn't get better than this. this game has me thinking about it's world and lore all the damn time. when you slowly master the combat and then switch to a different playstyle it becomes a completely different beast, I have put about a 1000 hours in this game and it's just gonna get higher and higher.
one of the best games ive played to this day. never in my 10 years of playing games have i hoped to forget about a game just to experience it again. What a masterpiece
It's like an open-world Dark Souls, with some additions to the gameplay. It's an awesome game with an epic world and enemies. However, I feel that the bosses in Souls games are generally better—they are not reused as in Elden Ring, are more streamlined, and have better soundtracks. I don't really care much for the game's vastness and added complexity.
If this game had more development time, I truly believe it would be perfect. Unfortunately due to what I assume are either poor creative descisions or pressure to release on time, there are some flaws that make it impossible to a rate 10/10. My first issue is the multitude of poorly made, unfair and... (for lack of a better term) **** duo boss fights. Most of these involve two normal enemies or bosses being shoved into a room with no AI tweaks. This makes balancing the two while making your own attacks incredibly annoying and unfair. I believe this was due to lack of development time, so I fault the publishers more than the developers. My 2nd complaint is the performance (I know, low hanging fruit). Fromsoftware has a history of poor optimisation but Elden Ring is horrible in this regard. The only real way to get a consistent 60fps is to run on the lowest possible settings unless you're running a 4090ti. Normally I don't mind a few little frame drops but the game also likes to crash... very frequently. Especially at loading screens. And then they add ray tracing despite this? My 3rd complaint is EasyAntiCheat. That is all. Nobody likes EasyAntiCheat.
Short version: Great game, just didn't get the same out of it as my previous Dark Souls experiences. Long version: This is a well made game with bookoos of content. My main thing is I went into this expecting another Dark Souls game, and that is not what I got. The DNA is there, of course, but I constantly found just a little something missing. Upon finishing the game my thought was "Have I become a Dark Souls purist? Would I have had more fun without summons", etc. This is by far the easiest Souls game that FromSoft have put out. I do think part of this stems from the fact that if you do practically any amount of exploring, you will get overleveled. The result of this was I never got any moment of triumph from killing a boss as I killed practically every boss I encountered in 1-3 tries, including the final boss. I also ran into the problem of doing most of my lore homework by reading descriptions and what-not, but I still had little idea what was going on, and so this hurt my enjoyment of the game somewhat significantly. So while there's a ton of different builds to play with, plenty of places to explore, and lots of bosses to fight, I left this game feeling empty. I don't wish to review this as negative as it's still a solid game, I may have just inaccurately set my expectations, and was disappointed when they weren't met.
Elden Ring is a fantastic experience in a gigantic and very challenging world. It was the first Soul's like I played, a genre I thought I didn't like but this game changed that perception. The only detail that bothers a little is that some bosses are reused, practically copies and in these cases the novelty factor disappears and the battle becomes a little repetitive, but I didn't discount any points for this reason since a game of this size with more than 150 bosses It is difficult to maintain 100% authenticity and reuse.
Elden ring is one of the greatest video games of all time and that’s definitely not an understatement. Elden ring is a massive game yet no area seems empty. Exploring through the beautifully crafted world on your first play through is almost magical, with so much to explore and an infinite amount of things to do. Tons of weapons and builds you can make in Elden Ring which just gives a huge amount of freedom to play the game however you like. Elden ring has almost a hundred bosses and their main bosses are just amazing. Gameplay is very fun and defeating a challenging boss is just so rewarding. Visuals are some of the best in all of gaming. Definitely a tough game but it’s one that anyone can pick up in my opinion and the freedom of being able to play through the game however you want is just perfect. Would recommend this game to anyone as it’s a perfect souls game for anyone new to the genre.
Game mechanics is very simple. People think open world and nice graphics makes a classic game. No. Poor itemization, every item has little to no difference. Too many useless skills. Title should be Elden Roll, because to win you need to master the art of rolling. Zero end game mechanic. Character progression , missions, and npc interaction is all on rails. Not worth the $80 for a 2010 designed type of game. Expect more from the developers, they are milking this old formula that we have played since the 1990s (min/max stats).
Endless options, insane battles, unrelenting soundtrack. This game is peak dark souls. The damage balancing is rough in the final third of the game. If I could split this into 2 reviews I would say the first 2/3 of the game is a 10, and final 1/3 is a 7
Best game I've played ever, I wonder if it'll ever be topped. There are several moments in this game that cannot be replicated in any other media, and it never stops to amaze you.
I've played the Souls games before, and every new Souls game increases my doubts, and I wonder how a game that has so many things repeated succeeds. elden Ring is a horribly repetitive game, from the way I play to the world that I saw 70% of the details in the world, another Souls, and the repeated enemies and bosses make me feel like they came from other games and exploring the world. It bores you to no limits because you will do the same thing a thousand times, and if you talk to me about the story, you must search in the Himalayas in order to know the story and its details, and the end of the game that I spent more than 60 hours in are just repeated endings from other games, and the method of playing that I do not remember seeing only in 6 Souls games are few, aren't they? no
World best Soul style game. Best game ever. Bloodborne, Dark Souls 3, Elden Ring I think these three games are From's biggest hits.
While I do respect the details and lengths made in this game, I find it quite hard to enjoy this game due to the combat and open-world aspect. Differences in difficulties could be very different: one boss could seem easy while one could be astronomically hard. Such imbalances causes friction while playing, erasing the sense of progression. In terms of being open-world, one thing that bothers me is the Lands Between itself is very cynical, with mostly enemies, dungeons, and forts on every corner. There are few friendly NPCs that I've encountered and they are mostly there either for the sake of the story or trading, making it seem more of a battlefield rather than a world.
my girlfriend just got an operation for cleft lip. she can now do some incredible things, like drink through a straw. watching her do these things is so much more rewarding than playing elden ring, which is a complete waste of life. do yourself a favor and don't buy this game.
130 hour spent on the game. Quite a adventure for me but sadly I don't feel any connection to the characters, and the lore is a bit on the BS side to be honest. Solid 8+ *online elements feels awkward and very distracting, but it's just me I guess.
My favourite game of the last 2 years. Lots to explore and discover. Over 150 hours played and I still keep coming back to it.
amazing gameplay that don't hold you hand and you can essentially do whatever you want to do with multiple endings and many bosses to face which makes you think about how to tackle each boss differently which is why this game gets a 10
I like this game. Elden Ring is a masterpiece of gaming. Wether you are a die hard fan of the Souls games or a newbie doesnt matter. Although its challenging, its still playable by people who have never touched any Souls games. It depends on your dedication and determination wether you succeed or fail.
Great visuals, great game design, great difficulty and even greater gameplay. Elden Ring is the ideal way to implement an open world to the soulslike genre.
This game is the pinnacle of gaming. The world is filled with lots of things you can do and you never get bored of it. The combat is fun and engaging although a bit hard. You dont have to fight bosses if you are under leveled and if you struggle with them here are some tips: 1.Dodge every attack and look for the opportunity to strike only ONCE (dont get greedy) 2.Sometimes you can dodge bosses by rolling into their attack (this game gives you invincibility mid-roll) **** shouldnt heal unless you know its safe 4.Never panic dodge (dodge when you need to) I also never found any bugs while playing and the whole game screams quality.
The worst game Ive played in a decade. The claims this developer bought a click farm and paid for awards seems warranted. Even with 50 mods this game is just trash. ~ Graphics are disgusting, ps3 level ~ HDR never functioned right and RTX does nothing in this game ~ you cant even wide screen res without bars ~ navigation is guesswork because of lazy dev design, NOT in order to make exploration fun. This bleeds truth after just an hour of playing. ~ without parries and iframes this game is a shallow shell. Its made for jocks too dumb for a real rpg and are on a break from madden. ~ the music is omg the music. Did they even try? SunoAI can make better in 5 minutes. Legit murder on the ears. ~ the mod community cant even package the folders the way theyre supposed to be packed ~ insanely boring grinding in the game and there is a lot of it. I can love me some grindy games but this ? Its dumb as hell. You literally just die and respawn on purpose just to grind the same fort over n over the first 2 minutes into the game. For hours ~ loot is pointless even with goblin map. Junk loot is still junk ~ punishing weight system for gear giving the game artificial difficulty instead of the real deal ~ every single piece of armor is horribly designed, not even modders have made any that are appealing ~ enemy AI has auto aim on MELEE attacks. Meaning there is zero reason to do anything but parry or iframe out. Aka jock strap gameplay Dont buy this trash. Its not even worthy of being up on cs rin.
Elden Ring is an absolutely amazing game. It is a fresh breath of air in an oversaturated Open World RPG market. With hundreds of weapons and spells to use, as well as new mechanics such as the ability to perform a true jump, and guard countering, Elden Ring also feels incredibly fresh for returning Souls players. When it comes to the enemy variety, Elden Ring is unmatched. With over 200 unique enemies to fight in the game, not even including the variations of those enemies, you will never run out of new things to fight. And when it comes to the world, Elden Ring is also one of the best. The world may be open, but it is not empty. There is always something new to do, or to fight, or to find. With secret bosses, caves, and weapons around every corner, you will be finding things for years to come. With all of this said, Elden Ring is a 10/10 game, and I'd recommend it to everyone.
The Dark Souls series are games that are built around a slow-ish and strategic gameplay style. They have tight level design whose purpose is to use and test the players abilities with a series of well-curated levels ending in bosses. Elden Ring is a giant, dull open world where you faff about for an hour and maybe find a boss but maybe you're just accomplishing nothing.
this game is the best open world game ever made the only ones that ive played that compare is red dead redemption 2 and ghost of Tsushima. this game is the easiest out of the souls games that from soft have made but it's still a very hard game but 89% of people who play this game can beat it. but the boss battles make you feel something that most games I've played don't, u feel like Ur there and the bosses are simply fun to fight. when u beat game and do journey 2 you should be at a point where the bosses feel like nothing. I'm not a soul's lover but now since I've played this I might just be a soul's lover. 10/10 game
It's not one of the best games I've played so far. IT IS THE BEST! I played Elden Ring about a year ago, and since then, I haven't been able to play any other game. From this perspective, yes, it's terrible because it raises the bar to a level that no other game can reach.
I played 3 times again and again and again and again. Played with mods which give opportunity play together
A fantastic successor to the Dark Souls franchise, offering a huge open world, countless weapons, spells and incarnations, as well as the familiar great story, locations and boss encounters. A new addition is an optional ghost summon mechanic, that can assist in most boss fights and harder open world sections, so people who might struggle with the steep learning curve or looking for a more casual approach, might find themselve satisfied. Sadly I was left feeling, that the game being published a few months to early. The damage and resistance mechanics can be inconsistent and confusing, some items drops appear to be placeholder locations, while dungeons and monsters are sometimes copy-pasted over the map without rhyme or reason. The typical FromSoftware approach to tell a story through vage NPC dialogs without quest logs or map markers in an open world, can let you miss out on some great side journeys, especially by taking longer breaks mid playthrough. That being said, there is an active modding scene, that could offer solutions and the game is definitly worth its price!
A mystical, big open world game from the maker of Dark souls.Uncovering secrets, fighting epic bossfights and get beaten. A lot.Everyone who says this game needs an easy mode doesnt know what a souls like is. The difficulty is a big selling point.
The game is perfect, great level design, great art direction, incredible inputs, rich in lore and no hand-helding. If you're bad at it, just keep trying and get good.
"Elden Ring is yet another masterpiece created by FromSoftware. The game presents a world that's both serene and stunning, yet it can also be incredibly eerie and unsettling. The graphics are impressive, and I often found myself just standing and admiring the beautiful scenery. The combat system is deeply satisfying; it's complex but in a rewarding way, where improving your skills feels fulfilling. While some bosses might seem similar to regular enemies or other bosses, the majority of them are unique and enjoyable to battle."
I can't understand how this game got such good ratings, it **** and after 3 times trying to get into it I deleted it again. I guess if you think that dark souls is a good game its for you because its not for any real gamer.
The most beautiful open world ever created. Like playing a paintings. The best open world game ever made so far along side BOTW.
I spent about 150 hours with this game on PS5 when it originally released. I absolutely hate Souls games, so Elden Ring had a steep learning curve which I fought through, and then eventually ended up thoroughly enjoying it. I saw the DLC was coming out, decided to give it a shot on my Steam Deck, and now I'm already 50 hours in a second time, just two years later. This game is a masterpiece. The gameplay itself is extremely hard to digest, especially at first, but once it connects, it makes for an experience that few other games pull off. My first time with the game I thought the combat was stupid, but I eventually just ended up accepting it as I ran through the rest of the game. My second time with the game, I am far more appreciative of the skill that combat requires out of you. The second time around, I am enjoying playing around with the builds a lot more. Its a very thick combat and build system, but once you digest it, you appreciate the intricacy of it all. I still find the exploration of the game to be the defining characteristic. The game provides you with minimal guidance, and lets you loose into the world. Due to the difficulty and learning curve, there is a lot of trial and error in the exploration as well. Even on my second playthrough I stumble into an area that is way too difficult for me, so I am forced to either push through it or wander the other direction. I appreciate how there is little guidance, because it creates this feeling where you aren't in any hurry to experience the world - this is something that most games struggle with today. There is minimal HUD, minimal dialogue, minimal direction, you just wander. There are times I wish the narrative was a little more concise and clear, but I do appreciate it for what it is. The visuals and atmosphere are another defining characteristic. The world is something unlike what you find in any other videogame. The art design is absolutely stunning, especially after you leave the initial area which is a bit bland. The creativity and imagination required to create a world like this must be impressive. There are no words for the atmosphere and visuals other than its something you have to experience yourself. There are areas that feel so much like you're in a dream state, yet they are fully explorable. Overall, this game is fantastic. Again, this is coming from someone who thinks Souls games are terrible. This is among my favorite games of all time. I encourage anyone who gives this game a shot to really tough it out through the initial learning curve because the payoff is absolutely worth it. Its a game that you are in no hurry to complete, and just experiencing the world is part of the enjoyment.
Not perfections but as close as gaming is ever going to get. Unforgettable experience
thank you Fromsoftware for creating awesome AAA titles without always online requirement.
a masterpiece W map W boss fights the only bad thing is FPS drops during the some boss fights is annoying
Awesome game! The feeling opening the door to limgrave is amazing. This game has a big and nice open world map with many dungeons, bosses and loot to get. The pure variety of weapon and builds is facinating .The kombat-system is really smooth and you can use spezial talents for Unique fights. The game is not telling you how to do and where to go but you will find put yourself and this is the best. You are really exploring the world by yourself, not like in other games where everything is marked and you just go from a to **** top of that the bosses are cool and fun to fight. Also I think they are more difficult then others say. Beautiful art 10/10
Best game i ever played so far, i played all soulborne games and i think eldenring got the most "soul" spirit, npcs' backstories r really cool, the badass plot and awesome animation made it worth goty. btw sekiro is the worth soul game, it isnt even a soul like game, no customization no class or feel free to explore around, just a boring roleplay game :v
A rare perfect 10. My personal favorite of the Souls games, narrowly passing Dark Souls 3
This game is the best, a complete masterpiece, the best game I have ever played
Elden Ring is one of the greatest Single Player Experiences I've ever had in a video game. I stopped playing video games years ago, but after what I saw on Youtube, it intrigued **** was worth it. I have a lot of fun in PVP, too, but it isn't for everyone.
One of the best gaming experiences ever. its definitely amazing game and %100 deserved GOTY
Flawed, but even considering the issues this game is amazing. A great entry into the FromSoftware souls series.
Dark Souls IV open world. The keys of the Souls saga are there: Greatly built bosses, enormous challenges, intriguing and dark plot, and RPG mechanics. It is great. I really like the gameplay, building my character the way I want and improving on the go. Constantly learning and immersed in this beautiful and sad world. Visuals and sound are spot on, the game feels great to play. I'm mostly always intrigued by what and who I will find and to see the semi-opaque plot develop.I don't like: It is too damn long, my full playthrough took 93 hours, and I was looking at the clock speedrunning a bit for the last 10. I also think it loses part of the souls charm in its massive open world, giving in to excessive repetition of challenges (damn you catacombs) and bosses. The greatest parts are its close spaces, the main areas where the big bosses are (similar case to the last metro game). Also, if I find a character and its sole response when I talk to him is "hmmm" I eventually give up on all of them. This is a major weakness of souls, obfuscating too much the story and quests to the point in which you either give in to the online wikis or completely ignore questlines. I've had a bit of both in this game. I'm okay with consulting a wiki from time to time to better make my decisions, but this is just too much.Summary: I'd rather have a semi open-world, featuring half the length of this one with the more trascendental and impactful moments and putting more thought in accessibility and better informing the players to help them take their decisions regarding build and quests. Great game even with the mentioned flaws!
Over 250 hours in this game, and it's my all time favourite. I'm so excited for the upcomming DLC. If you haven't played the game yet, I wish I was you. The way I was drawn into the universe, all the ways you can customize the character with the large variety of different weapons, armor and magic.. Absolutely incredible! 10/10!
This game is the best thing that has happened to me since the war in Ukraine started. This game (as well as other souls likes) is a real antidepressant and a pill for gaming impotence. The world of Ellen Ring is exciting, all you need to do is to chop off your brain and just immerse yourself in this world. Ellen Ring is my first souls love game, I bought it on emotion in Stima (living in a country where there is a war and a bunch of other nagnitazhuyuschih problems) at one point I just snapped and on emotion bought this game, I have not regretted. This world is stunningly beautiful, bosses are made velekopelno, this game literally pulled me into its world and made me forget about the problems for a while, even though Russia shelled energy infrastructure and often I just could not play because of blackouts, but it did not prevent me from playing for 10 hours a day. In general, if you have bad thoughts in your head, you are bad morally, everything is annoying, just buy and pass the first boss, I assure you will feel better.
Possibly the greatest game of all time for me. The game is enjoyable. Its difficult but feels worthwhile. It is the culmination of the souls like games over time and just feels complete. I have play this game for more hours than I can count. Even if each finger represented 100 hours I'd still not be able to count on both hands. I return to this game over and over and enjoy it just as much as the first time. It's an unbelievable marvel of gaming. I look forward to playing it for more time to come.
As a fan of the Souls series, I got into Elden Ring with much hype and excitement which, at first, was rewarded. It has the right atmosphere and the right feeling to be exactly what I wanted. But, for me, the open world formula did not really work for this kind of game. I found myself exploring areas that became tedious and unrewarding, having the story fragmented and less compelling. And the world overall seemed just too large. I like to play this kind of games by always defeating each enemy at least once in order to consider an area "cleared". And in Elden Ring this was a Sisyphean task, very unrewarding and it eventually ate away at my enjoyment. Elden Ring is probably a great game for people who wanted something different or, from what I've talked about with friends, for people ho haven't played previous Souls games and had no expectations from it. But for me, as I said earlier, the open world formula did not really do it. I've played it for 100+ hours and still didn't finish the story. But, by that point, I didn't really want to anymore.
One of fromsoft greatest games and one of the best games of all time, cant wait for shadow of the erdtree
I never thought I could play a game that would make me hate my entire existence to this extent more then I already did. 10/10
A very good implementation of the spirit of "souls" into the open world, making it more accessible to more casual players. Taking all the good elements of its predecessors, it gives the player more freedom to explore. Perfect for all masochists, BDSM lovers and players looking for a challenge.
This game is not just a normal game. This is way more beyond than game. The art, lore, characters, everything is unique. Everyone need to play this MASTERPIECE because there are no game like this ever. And those who hate the game is prob Ubisoft fans so don't let them to lose your interest in this MASTERPIECE.
No question this is the 2022 GOTY, its a fantastic open world RPG. But, it has issues with quest lines that you'll never find without looking up. Just a tiny bit more quality of life changes, such as a quest log, would solve a lot of issue. No log for their other games was fine, but in something this big in scope needs it. Having to remember 2-3 lines of dialog from a random NPC (that you can't play back) that might be important 50 hours **** might need a quest log for that.
Elden Ring, is the pinnacle of Souls Games, and the lore, gives so much depth to this world. Thank You Vaatividya!!!
While yes Elden Ring is the most accessible game out of the FromSoftware games, but keep in mind it is still a FromSoftware game. That being said I, a veteran of the souls-series, had little to no problems throughout the game with a few exceptions. With the vast variety of builds the gameplay is so much fun. Combined with the artstyle and music sometimes the game feels like a beautiful landscape painting or like an orchestra. For me Elden Ring is the perfect game, a true masterpiece.
It is one of the greates games ever existed. It is hard but gives enough support if you need/want it.
It's the best game I've played to date and it will be my favorite for a long time.
Pros, Very impressive enemy and world design Various types of builds are available, that can change the game experience for different players Maintains quality of dark soul legacy Lots of hidden adventures on the map Cons, The story is too complicated to understand first you should do tons of research Some enemy types are almost impossible to deal with specific builds When you see Malenia, turn back and run as fast as you can
Absolutely amazing game with a fabulous open world I have never seen before. The game has a surprising level of replay value to it and I find myself coming back to the open world again and again. The PC version does have that occasional stutter to it at the time of my play but it's nothing that can't be ignored.
Elden Ring is a breathtakingly ambitious collaboration between FromSoftware and George R.R. Martin that exceeds all expectations. This action-packed RPG is an absolute triumph, blending the unparalleled genius of Hidetaka Miyazaki's game design with Martin's unparalleled storytelling prowess, creating an experience that is truly **** its core, Elden Ring is a celebration of the very best aspects of the Dark Souls series, while also pushing boundaries to deliver an entirely new and captivating adventure. The world-building is a work of pure art, with each intricate environment meticulously crafted to the finest detail. From the vast open fields to the foreboding dungeons, every corner of the map holds surprises and secrets that make exploration both thrilling and **** combat in Elden Ring is as brutal and satisfying as one would expect from a FromSoftware game. Each encounter is a dance of life and death, requiring precise timing, strategic thinking, and patience. The addition of mounted combat adds a new layer of excitement, allowing players to engage in epic battles with colossal enemies, creating moments that are nothing short of **** of the standout features of Elden Ring is its engrossing narrative. George R.R. Martin's involvement shines through, infusing the game with his signature mastery of storytelling. The lore is rich, mysterious, and filled with memorable characters that leave a lasting impact. The dialogue and world-building are Shakespearean, with every interaction feeling weighty and meaningful.Furthermore, Elden Ring boasts an exceptional soundtrack that perfectly complements each moment, enhancing the emotional impact of every scene. The haunting melodies and thunderous orchestrations add an extra layer of immersion, making every triumph or setback feel all the more potent.While Elden Ring is undoubtedly a masterpiece, it does have a few minor flaws. Occasionally, the game's difficulty can feel overwhelming, especially for newcomers to the genre. The learning curve may be steep, but the sense of accomplishment that comes with conquering these challenges is well worth the effort.
GOTY! You must play! 10/10 All is wonderful, beautiful and aaahhh I can't write beacuse I playing Elden Ring
One of the best games I've played in my life. I truly admire FromSoftware; all of their games are artistic, and Hidetaka Miyazaki is brilliant in this regard. I'm a big fan of him.
Dark Souls in an open world setting just does not work for me. I can understand people who like it in general, but all the 10/10 BEST GAME EVER reviews are just super fanboy levels of ridiculous, in my point of view. I really like DS games, but because they were more dense and linear, so a sense of purpose and achievement was felt throughout the games. And the cryptic NPCs were also alright and added to the vibe as intended. But all of this falls flat in ER. It looks pretty, but the world is dead and the cryptic NPCs just add to the feeling of being lost and not knowing what to do and where. Besides an open world, ER adds nothing new. Very bland, very rehashed, very disappointing.
This game is so unbalanced. You will pass your first 20 hours trying to get equipment and build yourself just to beat the first boss. Thing is the game wants you to beat the first boss first thing. Even when exploring in the wild the game is super unbalanced, imagine the boss. The game is really pretty, just not fun to play for me.
I think this is probably the best action RPG of all time as of now, and I say this not as a enthusiast of other FromSoft game. But the souls formula works really well in this open world setting, the character is highly customizable and there are a ton of weapon, weapon skill, spells and gear that any other game pales in comparison. The only thing that frustates me so much is how badly optimized is the pc version. I get random freeze or framerate drop for no particular reasons and this can be frustrating. Fortunately I'm not much into PvP so the impact of those is minimal
Elden Ring delivers an epic adventure with breathtaking visuals, challenging combat, and a rich narrative. A masterpiece that defines gaming excellence.
Best souls game ever Open world masterprice Story good Combat amazing Difficult git gud
Amazing game but the bosses were a bit disappointing. Even with all of the unique areas, the game feels repetitive at times. Exploration can be tedious and boring because nothing scales and the rewards you get from exploration are usually useless which ruins exploration for me. Other than that the game is amazing and definitely worth playing.
Map and enemy visual design = 11/10 Ambience = 10/10 Graphics = 8/10 Variety of different weapons and magic spells = 10/10 Combat = 5/10 (Delayed slow and long ranged roll dodge, lack of side step as a basic move, unnaturally looking delayed attacks of enemies, insane speed and long combos of bosses combared to immobile protagonits are strongly unfair.Optimalization = 6/10 HUD and control for PC = 5/10 Side missions = 3/10 (Hard to discover/follow)
Good try on Open world and multiple game play style. Masterpiece just after my favorite, Sekiro.
The best game you can start with in Souls games is that only at the beginning you can get lost
While arguably the peak of the fromsoftware's soulslike genre, the game presents a few weak spots absent from its (spiritual) predecessors such as repetitively (in movesets, bossfight and regular enemy) and a few unfair game phases. Elden Ring obviously outweighs these cons with everything that has always been good in fromsoft's game while also cleaning up errors and improving on these strengths.
An awesome game. With an awesome world to explore. Elden Ring was not as good for me as for most people apparently. I love the game, but there was a quite bunch of things that i wish were better. The open world is very good. Especially in the first half of the game. The music is very good The combat is good. It has some good and some not so good additions. The visuals are very good. What annoys me is that a lot of things could easily be better if they changed little things. Like not giving those laughable delayed attacks to Margit. Making Malenia not heal or make waterfowl dance require a less specific way to avoid it. Mogh not having a unavoidable damage that take 3 of your flasks(yes i know you can avoid it but i don't think they did it in a good way) The Mountaintops are bad. Farum azula is... okay i think. I just wish that those guys(you know who) didn't existed Theres the repetition of bosses too. But that doesnt annoy me that much since i consider them mini-bosses of some sort. All that makes me feel like the game should have been smaller. Like 25% smaller. It might sound that i hate the game, but i dont, is one of my favorite games and i love it. The problem is that when you make three 10/10 games in a roll. The next one being a 8 or 9 feels like a big quality drop. Even though it's not.
Exploring this world might have been the most fun I've had in videogaming. Especially the first 50h
Amazing game from Fromsolfwere,they really make me surprise about Elden Ring's world,about their char dev,their story,.
Elden Ring is a good game - period, but I feel it lost something compared to previous games from FromSoftware. First the good stuff, gorgeous art direction, snappy combat with a lot of playstyle to suit your fantasy(but unfortunately not so balanced), breathtaking moments in vista discovery, and some of the best legacy dungeons. Now for the bad stuff, this feels like a wikipedia game, I couldn't finish even a sidequest, and I missed a lot of content that felt too important in my first playthrough like Malenia. I don't think that is good design. Then there are the recycled bosses.. urgh, DS1 had a handful of bosses but they feel much more impactful and memorable. Also final boss wasn't that memorable, and rather frustrating. The open world aspects offer a lot of awe and amazement but also can break the game due to over leveling, under leveling can be ok, sure, but damn defeating a story boss on your first time diminishes the importance of these mythical beings. And talking about some story aspects, I find it hard to connect. It's cryptic in a way that doesn't help it compared to the other souls likes. I felt like a psychopathic outsider who arrived in a world just to kill everything. I genuinely root for FromSoftware and I love their games that's why I am so critical of every detail in Elden Ring. I hope they learned a lot with their first open world and we will see even a better game with the sequel.
GOTY 2022 and one of the best games ever created. A unique game tha needs to be experienced by anyone who calls ****.
Elden Ring is an excellent game (GOTY 2022) and possibly the best soulslike ever created. What i really liked after 150 hours of playing and the platinum trophy is that this game wants and succeds on treating you like a clever person and not a dumb braindead gamer who only needs 2 buttons to play a game or watch 30 hours of cinematics or depend on QTEs in combat all the time. The game demands intelligence and imagination from you, from exploration to customization and from skill and technique to fast reflexes. I mean, Dark Souls 3 and Bloodborne already had these things but now they are even better. The ONLY 2 reasons that hold it back from true greatness imo (9/10 and not 10/10) are, first, the story is almost non-existent and second, the technical side in general, both in terms of graphics and music/sounds/ost, could be better. I mean, i played Hogwarts Legacy and then came back immediately to play again Elden Ring and it seemed to me like a game from 2015 or something. Nevertheless, a true must-buy for every soulslike lover or action rpg gamer in general.
was never a fan of soulsborn games but the open world of Elden Ring had me hooked. Its Far from the “let me grab you by your hand” formula I usually prefer, but I was able to find my way by following guides online. It didn’t ruin the “find it yourself” aspect of game, because guides only cover so much. You still gotta hustle to get to those places with the items you need. And even after utilizing a bunch of hacks I saw online, I hustled.I didn’t particularly like the overly challenging aspect of the game, but allowing me to come up with different strategies, which sometimes means going all over the map just to get one item, put in hours straight of constant **** game lacks a system that tells you what to do, which is good because it leaves the door open for exploration, however, without guidance, most players will simply miss on the best things this game has. Hadn’t I researched online I’d have missed on the coolest items and bosses.Anyway, we all know Elden Ring is a masterpiece and that’s it.
For all the dark souls fans out there, the ultimate game has been made. And as for this being fromsofts first openworld-game, it's amazing. One COULD critique the random dungons around the map as a weak spot, but it feels more like "extra" than part of the main game.
The difficulty level, a trademark of FromSoftware games, reaches new heights of frustration in Elden Ring. Instead of offering a challenging but fair experience, the game revels in its sadistic design, punishing players relentlessly at every turn. The joy of overcoming obstacles is overshadowed by the sheer grind required to progress, turning what should be a rewarding experience into a tiresome exercise in repetition.
Whoever says this game is a complete disappointment. You say the game is "too hard" you need to quit gaming I think. Elden Ring is not even difficult it's just learning the game's mechanics. The world is beautiful, the main bosses are amazing, the art is incredible and the legacy dungeons are some of the best level designed places to be ever created. GET GUD. It's an easy game.
this game gave me suicide thoughts, took them away and gave them me again. this is the greatest open world masterpiece ever...
Absolutely amazing visual art design, both for enemies and environments. Although the environments are good, enemies got super repetitive in late game dungeon. Filled with duos. Combat is not very action-based, most of the time spamming either ash of war or normal attack/jump attack. Dodge has crazy iframs and is most of the time the main or only solution to enemy attacks. Not a combat design that is very in-depth, just typical soul game combat I guess. Questlines are hidden and very easy to break. Will be very hard to finish quests without looking up guides.
Elden Ring steals a lot from Breath of the Wild - and that's a good thing! The locations are spectacular, bosses are visually stunning and the design of some locations remain best in the genre. Everything is so massive, often even too massive. That's the one problem that i want to highlight - enemies and bosses start to repeat fairly early into the game, so I wasn't that excited to fight "guy with sword" for the 6th time,. The focus on the quantity over quality definitely had a huge impact on the bosses, that are one of the least memorable in From Soft history. Don't get me wrong - there are some really great mechanically complicated bosses - but I feel like that's not enough for a game of this scale.
This game already is nostalgic to me like 1-2 months after playing it. My first playthrough was one of the most rememberable time of my life, apart from taking acid. Overall i love the cryptic story and hard gameplay we find in all souls games. 100% 10/10
As a new Souls-like player, I'm in love. Elden Ring is my dream open-world game. I finished my first run within 40+ hours, and I am excited for more runs. I keep seeing more bosses and areas on YouTube, it feels infinite. However, there are some bosses that repeat themselves in other places. I wish they were all unique.
With a game so big you definitely make some mistakes, I would have wished they reused fewer bosses and made some dungeons more interesting or focused on fewer levels, the ice region directly infront of the fire giant could have definitely used more work. Obviously this game had a very high ambition with the sheer scope and more often than not hits the mark, a couple bosses are not that great I'd argue, but overall it deserves all the praise it gets!
Best game i've ever played. These people who call it "too hard" probably haven't even played it because it's not true. (Elden Ring was my first From Software game)
This game is BIG like really big. Way bigger than what you would expect the game to be
piece of art
this game is **** ridiculous, i love it, 10/10
I have approximately 200 hours in Elden Ring, and it continues to surprise me, even after my second playthrough. It consistently introduces something new and beautiful to me. When I was playing Elden Ring during my first playthrough, it provided me with the best feelings that a game has ever given me: stunning artwork, original NPCs, an incredible story, unique lore, a vast arsenal with over 300 weapons, the ability to create diverse character builds, captivating world design, an original and immersive game world, multiple storyline endings, remarkable side questlines, excellent combat mechanics, and a wide range of skillset choices. I could continue praising it endlessly without getting tired. This game truly deserved the title of Game of the Year and stands as the most awarded game in the history.
Big Souls fan love the story, Amazing Gameplay+atmosphere+Desgin just a 10/10
Propably the best game i ever played. Was a fan of soulslike games before. Played every Fromsoft game until Elden Ring and loved them all, but i dont think i can go back to playing Dark Souls 1 or 2 after this. The atmosphere, combat, music paired with the best possible Gameplay makes this an absolute Masterpiece. Lets hope they continue their work like this and let the DLC be as good as the Main-Game. 10/10 !
The best game in the history of the genre. Immersive artwork, combat, and exploration that you can play again and again.
It's my favorite Game Fromsoftware created a masterpiece
its grate but not as good as people make it seam
if you die without playing this game then ur life means nothing
the best game I've ever played
The game is confusing for newbie players in the Soulslike genre and it gets very repetitive and boring pretty fast. I dropped it 15 hours in.
One of the best or probably the best souls-game ever made coz being the 1st to have an open world for a souls-like type of game.
One of the best game I ever played, This game will make you feel like you are a real adventurer in the land between .
Best game have ever made so far from. the bosses, the open world, and the weapons the move sets of the bosses are just amazing the game has a lot of content.
I have never been one to like Souls games. I honestly thought that just like the rest, Elden Ring would be another game with impressive level design and intricate story, for which you'd have to spend hours on youtube to just understand the plot. 10 min. into playing the game, I was absolutely in love with it. The way the game looks, the NPCs, the story, the quest lines, the world of Elden Ring is amazing and beautiful beyond words. As someone who has spent hours and hours of playing the game, and has all the achievements on Steam, I can say that this game is a treat for everyone who likes Souls ike games and RPGS. Highly recommended.
It is hard for me to even put into words how incredible this game is. As a huge Dark Souls fan and someone who loves open world/exploration focused game, this is perfection. Stunningly beautiful landscapes. Punishing and mechanically complex boss fights. This game has it all and even after 3 full playthroughs, I still find myself getting drawn back in to play a new way on a regular basis Everyone experiences games differently, some people enjoy the punishment and others don't (I do lol). You can go through the game without using your mount or a summon in tougher areas and get a true Souls experience, but with a whole host of options for summoning and making your character more powerful leading up to boss fights, this is also the most accessible entry to date. If you have been on the fence about a Souls game, this is the one to try. This game is a 10 for me and while it is my ideal game... its not without flaws and also is definitely not a game for everyone. I've tried really hard to find complaints about the game but most of them have been fixed by now and they're so nit-picky that its not even worth it to me. I waited for this game since they announced it in 2017 and it came through in every aspect.
the most satisfying game I have ever played, perfect to the last minute detail
Severe graphics occlusion(can't see any level assets). Audio doesn't load at all(my audio device is working fine). Download doesn't work(no link). Store page is completely blank. Game appears to be not available at all on ****. About the only thing I can say that's good about this game is, it doesn't take up any space on my hard drive.
Consolitis POS. Boring as hell, too, there's nothing in this game but fighting, by the looks. For some reason I can't post this review.
I enjoyed this game so much. I have put around 300 hours on it now on PC PS4 and **** game is so open and you can try so many different weapons and magic combinations. It is really fun to just play different playthroughs with different weapons and because the bosses are so well designed you can play all kinds of different ways with them.This is my favorite soul game with the Boss design because you can stance break them and make that them fun to fight against.I just love using this spiked fist weapon , so I can use bleed and Frost at the same time on the ****'s also because it is both strong and **** the game's biggest problem is that it's a open world where if you are going for a certain build then most of the content is useless it just kind of sad to look at all There is and just saying to yourself. I don't need any of it.This game could very easy be at 10 out of ten if the DLC gets out and become good. Just like the original Dark Soul dlc
Wonder how much they paid the game awards to give them GOTY, this looks and plays like a year 2000 game, 60 fps cap, no widescreen, no fsr/dlss,camera is like someone with parkinson holds it during combat, copy paste bosses because why bother, most of the word is empty, no story whatsoever (just like remnant 2 its made to datamine to find out you need to do), combat is worst i ever saw in a game.
60 hours in. Just could not get a feel for this game. Has no control, complete mess trying to do anything. Couldn't get a refund after trying to make it work cause of game time. Haven't touched since 2022.
I feel zero remorse for giving this game a 0/10. Once out in the world, there were very few enemies to fight to gain experience. I was wandering around waiting for something interesting to happen - and it never came. I walked down into a dungeon, thinking I might farm some experience and level up - but the block button just stopped working? Oh, but don't worry, it came back after I got stunlocked by an enemy for 5 seconds and lost 3/4 of my health. F&^# OFF, this game is the worst From Trash yet. I refunded immediately after seeing how empty/bloated the world is and that it's just going to be a giant bugfest.
The GOAT
One of the greatest games ever made.
Feel of progression in this game is too damn high. also very immersive and atmospheric. a must play.
Best game I have ever played.
The state of western games had me borderline depressed thinking were never going to have good triple a games again, but looks like i should have been playing Dark Souls. There is no badly written story that gets in way of gameplay, no crappy dialogue and marvel quips, you can just enjoy killing and dying because there is some actual difficulty unlike those western games. I've heard some people complaining that its too hard and there is no easy mode. Yes there is, its called magic and grinding levels, using magic makes the game around 50% easier. You do kinda need a co-op mod for co-op which is not perfect and makes the game too easy but i'm still giving it a 10 since there is nothing better.
You might aswell say From Software made THE RPG of all time.
I can describe this game with just one word, "Perfect"
The greatest FromSoftware game of all time. I'm not a big fan of the Dark Souls series, let alone any other FromSoftware game besides Sekiro. However, Elden Ring is one of the most beautiful games I have ever played, and definitely up there along my favorite games of all time.
best ever it was. "godskin duo" i hate them
Amazing bossfights, soundtracks, atmosphere, complete masterpiece
an amazing game with a great and beautiful open world love how you have to go out of your way to understand the story not being forced on you like a lot of games the gameplay is pretty great (even tho sometimes the camera causes you death) i love how every new run feels different, love the gameplay every weapon is special honestly it's a really great game even tho the laaate game doesn't feel finished
My benchmarks: - Visual: 5/5 - Music: 4/5 - Gameplay: 5/5 - Map Design: 3/5 Overall: 4.5/5 The best Souls game yet from Fromsoft. Lots of improvements in gameplay from previous Souls games, ranging from dedicated jump button to refined dual stance from DS2. Visual and art direction is phenomenal, as well as beautiful soundtracks. Map design is a mixed bag, however. While the overworld design is very intricate and carefully crafted, the various secret mini dungeons are bland and repetitive. The reuse many main bosses and mini bosses later on in the game is also very lazy on their part. Frankly speaking, the secret dungeons feel like fillers most of the time, and the game would be better off without them.
Although many may complain that action wise, Elden Ring did not bring anything new to the table, there is no denying that action is still very much rewarding and fun. From Software seems to have soften up on their stance, albeit in a much more clever way, of not including an easy mode. To be fair, over leveling can be considered an "easy mode" or having someone help you, which has always been available through the souls series can always be an easy mode. But now with the spirit bell, ashes of war, and TONS of different OP weapons, it can easily be said that FS has now incorporated an easy mode. Now for the elephant in the room, the open world aspect. Fantastically done and quite expansive. I have about 400 hours at the time of this review and in my 4th play through and I still find stuff I didn't find before. Talk about bang for your buck. The best $60 I have spent in a longtime. My only complaints and nitpicks is something I have been crying about since all of the souls games and that is the lackluster facial talking animations. At least they are somewhat putting an effort in where the mouths actually move when the characters speak but it is so rudimentary that for a triple A studio, it is pretty embarrassing. I also thought that some of the dungeons were a bit repetitive, something Miyazaki admitted was a failure on Bloodborne's chalice dungeons which made it surprising that he repeated his mistake. They needed to have a bit more flair to them and something surprising but they were all pretty much the same. Wonderful entry into the souls series and if you have never played a souls game I would suggest starting with this one as it is by far the most approachable for all of its "easy mode" options.
Best Dark Souls Game to Date. My only gripe would be its plot, I never fully understand the lore in almost any dark souls game unless I watch a youtube video or look up articles. Don't know if it just me.
It's a bit expensive when you factor in the price of the extra controllers, but I guess it's definitely worth it.
Finally, a game lives up to the hype! There were some minor stutter issues in the opening area (Limgrave) at launch especially against the tree sentinel boss fight but it seems the more I play frame drops are becoming more stable. After patches, I am no longer facing any frame drop issues. I finished the game with my trusty old 1050ti which is lower than what the game needed but it was really good for the card; I was really worried if I could even run it or not but it went out really well!(40-45 in open world and 60 in dungeons and catacombs indoor mid settings)Other than that the world is so gorgeous with beautiful art style and doesn't feel repetitive like most other open world games rather addictive gameplay with so much variety in playstyle; There's so many contents to enjoy with some of gaming's one of the best boss fights. (and also has so many repeating bosses that I didn't like). The gameplay was refined from all previous games from the studio. Finally, the hype was well delivered. Can't wait to play DLC expansion! Surely it is one of my top played games. Personal rating: 10/10!A MUST PLAY GAME
I played this game in early 2023, and it was my first FromSoftware game. I really enjoyed the main story, although I had to watch a lot of videos to fully grasp it. Nevertheless, I appreciated the storytelling approach. The main bosses were all enjoyable to fight and had unique characteristics. The combat, while involving a lot of dodging and waiting for ripostes, still managed to maintain a distinct feel, although it could become somewhat repetitive at **** game's world is visually stunning, and despite the graphics not being top-notch, I found the art style to be quite appealing. My primary criticism pertains to the repeated use of bosses in the dungeons. I understand the need to populate the world, preventing it from feeling empty, and I'm pretty sure no one has discovered all the dungeons on their first playthrough. However, I encountered a significant number of identical bosses, even within the main campaign.Overall, it's a good game, especially if you're a fan of FromSoftware's previous works, and it also serves as a solid introduction if you're new to their games, as was the case in my experience.
A large open world, many bosses, an amazing atmosphere, and plenty of replayability. But in this game, in addition to all the previously described advantages, there are also a sufficient number of disadvantages, such as rather poor optimization, a large number of repeated bosses, and an almost empty open world.
If I had the right to give it more points I would, it truly is a masterpiece.
Absolutely loved this game, probably my favorite souls-like so far. The Silmarillion vibe setting really topped it off. Well done.
Elden Ring is definitely a great game. Pros for me: Personally, I loved the lore of the game, the music was very good, the gameplay variety is very good, most of the bosses are very good, the landscapes in the game are great and many other things like this, but you can understand that there are some shortcomings because I gave this game a 9. First of all, the optimization is still not good, there were some lags (mostly in Leyndell), Secondly, you have to research some things in the game on the internet and I think this undermines the game experience (Secret doors, Progress paths), The lore in the game is mostly (I understood it from the internet) You learn from items and some NPCs, but you talk to these NPCs, then they go somewhere else but they don't tell you, and if you come across them, you talk to them, which causes you to research on the internet, as in the sentence I wrote before. It's not good at telling a story either. Also, those who created Malenia *swear* I died 56 times, 56 TIMES. I died against Godfrey 9 times and Radagon 7 times. After completing the game, I searched the internet to see if there were any other bosses left. How could I know that Malenia was so difficult? I knew the events of the Aeonia war, but I killed Radahn the second time, and if he is equal to him, he cannot be difficult. I was saying. My life is ruined, but no matter how much I hate the boss fight, the character's background story is the best in the game, perhaps even in Souls. I hope he can meet his brother in Shadow of Erdtree. Leaving Malenia behind, I have completed the game and the last thing I will mention as bad is the endings of the game. The endings of the game are sooooo weak. I won't mention it to avoid spoilers (I guess the above is not a complete spoiler) but it disappointed me. I would put Elden Ring(9.2/10) between Red Dead Redemption 2(8/10) and God of War Ragnarok(9.9/10). DONT FORGET SHE İS MALENİA, BLADE OF MİQUELLA AND SHE HAS NEVER KNOWN DEFEAT
best souls like game ever i think. Art is better than every solslike game and its have so much different enemy styles
Good game with a bad PC launch. Game is basically open world with the dark souls/bloodborne formula. Some enemies are cool and interesting, many are just unimaginative, extremely repetitive and boring, Terrible controls for PC setting up the keybinds, Graphics are decent, but not great.
It's Aiight. Prefer the original souls formula over mixing the combat and questing in with a Ubisoft-like sandbox Didn't deserve the praise it got but glad to see Fromsoftware finally get the recognition they have deserved in the past, Just for one of their weakest games somehow. I guess because it's easier to grind for the casual market being open world like that.
Playing Elden Ring was a huge challenge as it was my first souls-like game experience. I would die a lot and probably way more times than a player who has played even just 1 souls game as this was completely unknown to me. I remember when I met Margit, the fell omen and thought it was impossible to beat him... I didn't know what kind of bosses I would meet in this game. What's amazing is that 1-2 weeks after that I was on a completely different level and I felt like I was the one who was becoming a boss of the game. If you love souls-like games you'll definitely Elden Ring, one of the best in this genre if not the best!
10/10 game but not a 100/100 From still has to evolve on the open world formula which is logical because its their first game in that genre
Elden Ring marked my first foray into the challenging world of Souls-like games, and it was a captivating journey from start to finish. From Software, known for their prowess in creating punishing yet rewarding experiences, teamed up with George R.R. Martin, the acclaimed author of “A Song of Ice and Fire,” to craft this epic adventure. A Novice in the Souls-Like Realm: As a newcomer to the Souls-like genre, I was apprehensive about the notorious difficulty level. However, Elden Ring struck the perfect balance. It was challenging without being excessively punishing. The learning curve was steep but not insurmountable, encouraging gradual improvement rather than frustration. Every defeat was a lesson, and every victory a triumph of perseverance. Visual Splendor Beyond Resolution: Elden Ring’s visuals are nothing short of breathtaking. Even without a 4K display, the game’s world oozes with artistic brilliance. From the sprawling landscapes to intricate character designs, every aspect is a testament to the developers’ dedication. The world of the Lands Between is a vast, interconnected realm filled with secrets, each corner a visual feast waiting to be explored. Flawless Execution: One of the most striking aspects of Elden Ring was its near-flawless technical performance. Bugs and glitches were almost non-existent, a rarity in modern gaming. This attention to detail was evident in the fluid animations and precise hitboxes. Combat felt responsive and fair, a crucial factor in a game where every swing of your weapon matters. A Triumph from Day One: Elden Ring’s launch was a refreshing departure from the industry’s recent trend of releasing unfinished, buggy games. From day one, it was a complete and polished experience. This speaks volumes about the dedication of From Software and their commitment to delivering a top-notch product. In conclusion, Elden Ring is a masterpiece that transcends the Souls-like genre. It caters to newcomers like myself while still challenging veterans. Its visuals are a testament to the beauty of game design, and its technical prowess sets a standard for the industry. From Software and George R.R. Martin’s collaboration has given birth to a gaming experience that will be remembered for years to come. Elden Ring is not just a game; it’s an unforgettable adventure into the Lands Between.
Very nice game apart from some aspect thar could have been better, like recycling boss or too many dungeons and stuttering, this game is the ultimate evolution of the Dark Souls formula
"Now Cometh The Age Of Stars" I love this game, it is so much fun I have around 150 hours on the game with friends and I still havent found every secret but there are a few little things 9 /10 Chocos Pros: ______ -You can`t just run through -you really dive into the game and have to think about what you're doing. -Actions have consequences and Elden Ring brings that across really well. - Tactics required (especially bosses have to be learned first, and you have to know where their weaknesses are, when to attack and when to keep your distance) · The music is very well, the first time that I turn up the BGM · The movement is just addicting I cant stop using Torrent => ·The Map design is insane and the fact that everything around the map such as Minor Erdtree and Dungeons are all so useful and travel more around and looking everywhere to find all kinds of secrets. ·All Abillities, Spells, Incantations and Ashes can be found, you get what you see! (also from bosses) Cons: ______ ·Unchangeable difficulty (especially concerning boss fights of abnormal dimension) - No pause function - Attacks (blows) change their direction during execution, arrows, spells etc. are like remote controlled - Most of the time you win fights by mindless tactics like "luring out", constantly riding to and fro ____________________________________________________________________ As a Souls beginner, I have now completely found my way in and love the game very much. And the world offers exactly what makes a good open world in my eyes. The atmosphere and an insanely high exploration urge through varied worlds makes the game my game of the year.
The gameplay and world are outstanding. I personally found the ending underwhelming.
Want to start off saying that I have 24 hrs into the game. I tried multiple times to get into it but every time I quit as I am simply lost in the game. The core of the souls game simply does not translate well into an open world game. With previous games as in all dark souls and demon soul, we were given a relatively linear experience. With a game being linear you can easily make a story that is more cryptic and you do not need to hold your players hand. Sadly from software has not changed anything in regards of their quest and story telling making me feel completely lost with no goals to try to reach. Characters telling you only parts of what you need to know works fine for a linear game, but when you have an open world and some character tells you to go north to find x thig then really that is as vague as it can get for open world. I am not asking for pointers or marker in the game but rather an option for characters to be more descriptive and precise on what they are talking about as wandering through the same areas over and over again gets boring pretty quickly when you cant figure out what to do next. The world has few unique locations, but a lot of times you will travel through empty fields, come across the same copy paste dungeon with slightly different bosses at the end and same enemy camps that will make you feel deja vu. My orientation in the game was completely broken as there has been very few landmarks through out the world to be able to navigate it properly. Overall I wish from software returned to their old game design and scrap the open world as they are definitely not able to put the souls mechanics with it.
Without a doubt one of the best single-player RPG games. No Nvidia DLSS or AMD FSR, so performance is poor on Max settings even with a good PC (In some areas) Ending was disappointing, but other than that incredible game.
this was my gate to Souls game and I'm glad. I played it for 190 hours, and I still think I didn't play it enough.
While i am not a darksouls fan. I gave this game a try. I am a PC gamer. I am giving this a 9/10 because the development and game was great overall. The -1 is due to the fact its a controller game at its core. The mouse and keyboard support for this game is abysmal. if they gave us better key bind choices for keyboard and mouse and not limit us to the controller style inputs of key binds this game would easily be a 10/10 for me. That aside this game is awesome I didn't finish it completely, but I **** at the game due to keyboard and mouse key bind issues and not liking how certain keys are pre-bound to other functions and not able to split those functions up across multiple keys is a buzzkill and makes the game to hard for me to play on keyboard as i kept mixing up functions that they do as directional but aren't directional on my keyboard. I refuse to use a controller as i don't like hand held controllers like xbox/ps5 etc. Again this game though is amazing and still deserves my praise overall. Add better keyboard support on PC port please!
Formulaic storytelling that feels extremely derivative. It was acceptable to a point with the previous titles, but with Elden Ring, it feels like it's gone past that and now it just feels cheap and lazy.
worst of the souls games but still a good game I guess. Play when you've already enjoyed the previous
Elden Ring is of of my favourite games of all time mixing the great soul formula into a almost perfect open world just makes one of the best games ever made
This is the game that got me into souls like games. It has amazing exploration and combat, superb music and visuals, just an exceptional game overall.
Pros: - Gameplay - Graphics/Artstyle - Story - Multiple Endings - Weapons - Characters Cons: - Caelid Verdict: Worth it at first full price!
Great game, amazing world and interesting story, fun combat. I was actually compelled to finish this game, which is rare these days.
All these one star reviews are from those who have lost grace. They've given up, refused to learn the game's mechanics because of ignorance and idiocy. Believe them not; they have gone mad. Get the game. It's absolutely fantastic. It's flawed, but no game is perfect, but elden ring provides one of the most challenging, rewarding, and satisfying gaming experiences ever, and you deserve to experience this masterpiece. Best of luck to you. Stay safe, friend. And don't you dare lose grace.
This game manages to be more generic than the entire Zelda franchise. And to be more generic than Zeldas, it's enough to be a good SoulsLikes, that is, games made easy for players who only know how to press two buttons. The game has a universe 100% empty of content. The game simply boils down to killing monsters and repeating the same gameplay over and over again. Game difficulty is absolutely 0 like any SoulsLike, learn the time to dodge rolling and the right time to hit the enemy. Okay, that's the generic SoulsLike game. The story is non-existent and the game only has a few minor RPG elements, but make no mistake, this is no RPG. Graphics are average. The game takes place in the middle of 2022 and the character cannot just go into the water. Unfortunately games have become too industrial and it seems that being industrial is overtaking GOTY for some journalists.
Best game I've ever played. The open world feels filled with things to explore. Bosses are beatable by everyone regardless of skill level it just takes willpower.
Great game. one thing i don't like is the world feels empty and lifeless, graphics is not great not bad. But who cares about the graphics? it's souls game.
Very good game. I enjoyed playing this game a lot. I strongly recommend this.
This game is almost perfect! We can explore the world, we have a lot of challenges to go through, a lot of itens to get and some amazing bosses to fight against. And, oh, I can’t forget about the graphics, it’s really stunning. And as I said, it’s almost perfect because on PC we still have a lot o performance issues. The game has been released a long time ago, we don’t have any patches nor fixes to those issues and that’s something that upsets me a lot.
Graphics: 9/10. One of the most visually stunning games I have laid my eyes upon. Combat: 8/10. A much improved redo of the janky combat from Dark Souls 3 and Bloodborne. Attacks feel like they have actual power behind them, and combat now feels much more open with the added jump and addition of a mount. World: 10/10. The lands between is an absolute joy to explore. Every corner of the map has something to do. Side characters with quests, secret areas that cover half of the overworld map, massive dungeons that exceed even Anor Londo in scope, not to mention the massive landmarks such as the Erdtrees and divine towers that both serve as visual eye candy, and to point the player in the right direction. Fromsoftware has created their most captivating world yet. Balancing: 5/10. This is my only complaint with the game. Difficulty is all over the place. Some late game enemies die in a single hit and give you unlimited runes while there are many early bosses that will wipe the floor with you but don't drop anything useful. Strength and bleed builds are hilariously overpowered, while incantations are nearly useless except for pvp. Every piece of equipment us fun to use but not all are created equal. Story: 7.5/10. Gives you just enough information to let you get to know the world while still leaving some things up to interpretation. A strong improvement over bloodborne, which makes you pull up a wiki if you want to know anything about the story. Bosses: 7/10. Although not the focus of the game, there are some incredible fights in elden ring. Margit, Rykard, Godfrey, and Rhadan to name a few. There are a few underwhelming bosses, but out of over 150, most of them are quite engaging fights. Overall: 9/10. One of the few recent titles that I am confident to label as one of the all time greatest. Elden ring shows how a developer can go above and beyond to fix their mistakes, while still keeping their original vision alive.
If you persevere through this game and have the willingness to keep trying and keep going, it will be difficult to ever find a game better than this. Must play with controller though.
Game-play: Good AI: Good Balance: Normal Graphic: Good Optimization: Normal Story: Poor Characterization: Normal Music/Sound Effect : Good The worst for me is bad interaction between player and enemyies.
Sekiro was the first game I got for my gaming PC. I only knew of Elden Ring a month ot so before launch. Pre ordered it instantly. Currently stuck on fire giant. I've seen reviews saying you can't out smart bosses and you have to reach certain levels. That's true if you aren't good. There's tons of videos on youtube beating bosses at level one with level one weapons. You choose how you play this game. I've also seen reviews saying theres no side quest, well Elden Ring does have side quest it's just hidden in the dialogue. And the way I see it, if you play a blind playthrough missing quest just adds to the replay value once I starts new game plus. New gameplay mechanics slowlys get introdued at the start of the game. I've also seen people say the world is bland, well to each there own but fighting new locations in Elden Ring dropped my jaw so many times. My girlfriend just has fun watching me. The only negatives as is it's locked to 60 fps I used to get a stutter here and there but now I only get stutter if I have my Bluetooth mouse on. Believe it or not this game has only crashed once, in my over 300 hours of playing.
Although I haven't had as much time to play as I would like in order to provide a more precise review, I feel comfortable stating that it's a distinctive game. It builds upon the well-established qualities of the genre while also introducing new elements.
I bought it at release and even 18 months later I keep coming back to the Lands Between. One of the best games I've ever played, and my gateway drug to FromSoftware games.
my body hurt because so lost and nerve I had in game but this was a game I know it had to be 100% master peace
It's just a soulslike game like every other, the same combat, same ui, the world and art are cool tho
With a stunning and astonishing direction alone, this game is worthy of being hailed as a masterpiece. While the rest may be ordinary, the game's visual aesthetics, in a uniquely gaming way, leave lasting memories for the players.
best game ever best voice over best art design best combat diversity best re playability best game in the world
Utter piece of trash Clunky movement and slowpoke speed moving and attacking Bad controls on keyboard and mouse Can't rebind most keys No way to aim without auto aim Dodge with the lightest armor doesn't give you enough distance Coop is a piece of sht Enemies ignore terrain and obstacles and jump like rabbits Nothing is properly explained You're always starved for money Money is used to upgrades everything even your skills Upgrades feel pointless Game forces you to die over and over to explore little by little Very hard to find items to upgrade gear which is what matters the most Graphics look underwelming Mana prices are two heavy Too hard and costly to respec Game forces you to memorize every enemy pattern after dying to them, instead of giving you tools to evade getting killed in the first place Death is cheap and common People will enter your game and murder you for fun and you have no control over this 30 euros in the garbage
One of the best Open World Games of all time. It's an instant classic and an absolute pleasure to explore. From the technical side it's pretty underwhelming though... Performance is honestly terrible and the music isn't as good as DS3 or Bloodborne.
Clearly the best game of 2022. That being said, it is not perfect: This PC port is standard From Software quality (that is: not great, locked 60 FPS, no DualShock/DualSense support), there is a bit too much enemy/boss recycling going on, some caves/tombs are just copy/paste and not that interesting, endgame turns enemies into frustrating health sponges... But still, what a world FromSoft managed to create! I mostly hate open-world games due to them always being full of boring filler content and boring collectibles, but From got their version of open-world formula almost exactly right.
This has been the best first-playthrough of any game I ever had. The open world is beautiful and super fun to explore, easily the best open world we've seen so far. It's a challenging game, but never too difficult to master, and never frustrating because of the high amount of checkpoints. There are also plenty of tools in the game to make the combat much easier, such as summoning other players or NPCs for help or doing a mage build. The Story might be too difficult and complex to understand for the casual gamer, but it is very deep and interesting. The Soundtrack is beautiful and fits the game perfectly. The Art Direction has never been better. You can look in any direction in the game and it looks like a painting. There are hundreds of weapons, pieces of armor, shields, spells and more, giving the player an insane amount of options for their builds and adding a lot of replay value to the game. Bosses have very well telegraphed attacks, making it very fair to fight and learn them. Gameplay: 10/10 Combat: 10/10 Music: 10/10 Leveldesign: 10/10 Performance: 8/10 Bossdesign: 9/10 Art Direction: 10/10
This game is the best game of my whole life.Just play it I dont want to say anything else.
Never played it, but I am excited to give it a try. I like a challenge and Elden Ring looks like a very, very cool one
Elden Ring is an OK game but what is all the hype about? Combat is fairly well done but simple, graphics are functional but nothing special at all. Adding the co-op mod to the game breathes new life into the game. Nothing about this game is new, it has been done numerous times before. I recommend it if you like co-op and use the mod, otherwise no.
It suffers from stutter and low fps even using high-end configurations. It contains all the historical issues present in Fromsoftware's past titles.
This game manages to surprise me over and over again. I've spent over 100 hours on the game, and haven't finished it because I just love taking my time exploring, trying out new character/combat styles, and slowly revealing more of this absolutely beautiful world. Every once in awhile I have to stop and take a screenshot when I find a magnificent view. The difficulty is a bit of a blessing and a curse. I honestly love the difficulty and the punishing gameplay means I'm fighting the same enemies over and over, learning their attack patterns until I can smash them, or just barely eek by. The problem is that my wife will never get to experience the game because she doesn't have the reflexes or perseverance to play through the game with this level of difficulty. Since there's no "easy/beginner mode" this will simply be a game that is out of her reach, possibly forever, and that's a shame. Considering how just the exploration of the world can keep me engaged for hours, I don't know why it would be such a disservice to the more casual gaming community to just give them an easier option. By all means, leave the default difficulty exactly where it is, but a way to lower the difficulty would at least widen the audience of the game while still providing quite the challenge for those that want it. I've got friends that have avoided buying the game because they hear how punishing the gameplay is and won't even give it a chance.
Anyone remember the end of Dark Souls 3? About letting the old cycles end and allowing a new era to begin? Miyazaki doesn't. Elden Ring sounds the creative death knell for Miyazaki. Copying, reskinning, and garbling graphical assets, combat systems, story beats, and more popularized by his own games and past games made by other studios (most of which are superior to this) for a Bethesda-style cash grab is not what anyone expected, given their reputation. Deliberately obfuscating a poorly recycled storyline wasn't enough for them: they had to insert mangled vestiges of other games' combat systems via unoptimized code blocks to even claim any kind of innovation. Let's not forget the recycled, sparse undead (but really very dead) open 'world' with next to no sense of physical geography, no internal logic, no emergent gameplay, and no relevant physics. Bungling every unnecessary feature of open-worlds was their last 'innovation'. Map towers, random enemy camps, obvious area and level transitions, unnecessary, repetitive 'dungeons', an oddly ultra-modern, but repetitive and tedious interface, a compass and map that handily remove exploration, an idiotic leveling 'system', unnecessary crafting, endless unnecessary fast-travel, a deliberately removed hub area, and an unnecessary mount that trivializes the entire 'world' are all among those features. Even the closed areas that don't follow the above tropes are, at this stage, desperately lacking in unique mechanics and even visuals that distinguish them. Speaking of visuals, the three dozen or so decent vistas and varied skies across Middle Earth do not compensate for the hideous 2D trees and grass textures, blurry rocks, poor FX, or the layout of all these contrasting elements in the game world. The flaws of the combat system include but are not limited to: endless enemy recycling, enemies are routinely unassailable, lightning-quick, and damage sponges, camera tracking, invisible poise, useless armor, recycled animations, unadjusted hitboxes, 'stealth', 'classes', the balancing of every item, ash of war, and spirit ash, the distribution of upgrade materials, only 50-70 of the 238 boss encounters are unique, and more. Want a better version of this game in all aspects? Go for any Souls game, or Bloodborne, or Sekiro. Clearly, Miyazaki forgot how to.
A game with a very deep lore that you need to explore yourself. Interesting and diverse mobs and locations, lots of weapons to choose from. The best part is that this game can be played repeatedly as if it were the first time, because it has many secrets. The downsides are not critical. Sometimes the auto levelling is annoying. Repetition of bosses.
One of the best game of all time, From Software expend the formula fine as hell.
Flawed Masterpiece. The world is the best looking in gaming history Really satisfying exploration and the way the dungeons are scattered really encourages exploration The main Bosses are just too great And all legacy dungeons are awesome On the other hand ..Reusing bosses a lot was really annoying and prevents me from calling this game the best in history
After waiting for so long it really was worth the wait. I've dumped several hundred hours in the game and wish I could replay it all over again for the first time. Looking forward to the DLC later.
Every aspect of this experience is perfect in every way possible and this is one of the best games that someone can play. The music and art direction are particular standouts.
I'm re-reviewing this game after originally giving it a 7 because I thought it was too frustratingly hard (among other things) and I didn't get my moneys worth. Now that I played it with the coop mod, I can confirm that this is absolutely incredible and I'm extremely happy to have given it another shot!
I beat DS 1,2 and 3. I have Bloobdorne platinum. BB it's the hardest souls, bosses made sense, there was a specific tactic to kill each boss. Elden Ring gameplay fails at making sense, bosses are too fast, too strong, they can one shot you at level 120. Open world in a souls game is the worst decision FS ever made, you have to Google all time where to go next, the world is massive and you are cluelesss about where to continue. Invasions are a huge time wasting if you just want to proceeed with the story. **** messages from players everywhere, often lies, I never seen it in any other souls game (maybe too many zoomers playing ER?) Graphics are impressive and the designs are beautiful. ER is an open world grabbing flowers for crafting, pointless dungeons with same cloned bosses and very bad loots, caverns where the final reward is a .... muhsroom. This game style doesn't fit in the soulsborne genre. It is a really boring and disapointing game and the OST is very forgetable compared to previous FS games. Definetly very overrated.
Absolute masterpiece. Haven't playing something this great for years. The world is insane, I just had to explore every inch, see what's behind the next turn. The way the world is designed with handholding left out, perfect, resulting in a genuine desire to explore. The enemy design and variety is insane, the amount of different enemies, all with their own movesets, design, backstory and place in this universe is hard to fathom. I have never seen a soo diverse set of enemy types. The visuals is insane, don't give people complaining about the graphics any thought, the visuals is off the chart. I don't know how many times I just stood there, looking at the views and vistas. The whole designfilosophy is so awesome, go wherever you want, do it any way you want, but if that fails - then maybe you should try another way, another tactic...
So rare to see games with such a level of quality and detail these days. Top tier open world rpg design. GOTY.
I'm going to **** the people who made this game. How hard is it to add an easy mode? The game is very nice gameplay, graphics, but I can't have fun because of the difficulty
Like all FromSoft games, the more rewardingly difficult gameplay out there. The story is interesting but confusing, and the way to fill in missing pieces is read descriptions of items, or go watch youtuber's and their lore videos. Graphics are solid, you can turn into the moon, 10/10
BEST GAME EVER !!!!! no more words needed....... (I got more than 200 hours)
Peak of gaming industry. Trully masterpiece of all time. Put a ring on it..
No one told me about the monitor add on also why are we killing the entire family tree
As Good As They Say It Is Elden Ring is the latest entry in the Souls-Like series by Fromsoft. As someone who has completed all of the Souls games from Demon's Souls to now Elden Ring, I'd like to think I have a decent grasp on these games. Elden Ring plays like most Souls Games, the main difference is that the developers have managed to turn a zone based linear formula into an open-world setting and they've done this extremely well. The general gameplay loop is that you go through an area, explore side areas/dungeons, level up and beat bosses to get more levels. The game has a lot of spells, weapons and armour sets which means you can play almost anything to your imagination similar to Skyrim in that sense. I personally played the game as a Spellblade, using a claymore but buffing it with magic and this build took me through the whole game. Bosses in Elden Ring are where, in my opinion, the game shines but also falls a little short. The boss design is excellent visually, the developers have really outdone themselves but when I say they fall short I mean that they feel a little cheesy. What I mean by this is that if you've played previous souls titles, you'll notice that most bosses delay attacks in an absolutely absurd way to get you to dodge early so that they can strike you. I think a lot of the damage the bosses do, especially near the end, is way too high, to the point where it feels like levelling vigour feels a bit useless. It's like they're trying to subvert your expectations but not exactly in a great way. A lot of Bosses in the game are fine but you'll know the ones I mean if you play it. Exploring the world is where the game is near perfect, there's always something to find, a catacombs to enter, a person to invade, an NPC questline to do. If you plan on doing most of the game, you'll be playing well upwards of 80 hours. Multiple Endings is always a plus, even if some of them are a bit convoluted. Generally the game is very well made and deserved GOTY, with DLC on the horizon too I can't wait to return and see what else is in store. Elden Ring is definitely one of the greatest games ever made with some questionable boss mechanic choices. 9/10 - Endless replay-ability and a great world to play in.
ELDENRING!!!! What an experience i had playing this game! this is actually one of the rare games i missed playing while busy with something else. First Souls like game i have ever beaten and the experience is so organic and makes me regain hope in the video game industry and reminds me time and time again that there are good video games that are worth your time. this game is like dark souls 456 all in one game, sure its hard and you die probably over 50000 times, but that is the gameplay. I truly enjoyed playing this masterpiece and i hope either this or god of war ragnarok wins goty 2022! excellent work Fromsoftware my steam review Elden Ring is one of those games you really get involved in, you are fully immersed in the story and the amazing world has so much to offer. The game can be as hard as you want it to be, but the difficulty scaling of this game is a side show compared to the lore that this game brings. This game has revitalised the open world formula that we are so used to and i am so glad to have played this game as it is AMAZING. some repeat bosses, map could be clearer at some regions, but overall Game of the year 2022. Highly recommended to anyone who likes adventure games.
Fromsoftware just keeps getting better and more creative with their art style, but their bread and butter unnecessarily decreased in its quality and the difficulty feels powercreep’ed, which wouldn’t be a problem were the gameplay perfectly balanced. People seem to love elder ring, but the lack of balance killed the joy in mastering melee combat for me. In dark souls 3, the fast attack is low risk low reward, strong attack is higher risk but still consistent and special attacks were usually tricky to pull of, but very rewarding if used correctly. In elder ring on the other hand, most melee weapons contain an attack that is both the safest and very strong, ruining the flow of combat. Long gone are the days you interweaved different attacks, because jump attack/special attack is always superior. From other complaints, the narration and writing refused to progress. Some people love creating their own stories off small environmental details and the little information we get and I respect that, but there is no reason for the more exposed narration like dialogues and cutscenes to be this mediocre. Some details or fragments are intriguing, but that is not close to enough when you try to have more of a focus on the story than in previous games. The flaws doesn’t make this a bad game, but fromsoftware created an art peace inferior to their predecessors.
One of the only games I got all achievements for. It is a Masterpiece
10/10 one of the best open worlds we had in the past years. Its more RPG than Final Fantasy these days xD
Actually game is very good, but it's not for everyone! It's not walk in a park with kill everything with few clicks. It's not for ppl. who don't like challenges. There is lot what can be said about this game. In my opinion there are more negative/mixed reviews than should be. At first I was kind of frustrated to - mainly because of regular and unexpected deaths, especially at beginning (started with level 1). But when you think about it, it's offer you experience like in reality, you should have "balls" for negative experience and step over it, train yourself and get better, understand how game world works. When you got that games gets better and better. We are used to be heroes in most of games from beginning, attack everything etc. here you need to think what to attack and do you need to attack at all. Things that I dislike: 1) key mapping 2) cross world notes - game allows you to set notes for other players, so there are tons of left notes and for me they are more interfering than helping, yes some notes probably can help you in some way, like "boss ahead", "treasure above", etc. but at same time there are tons of unnecessary or kind of spam notes and also almost duplicate notes. These notes, if you chose to read them, also kind of robs you from explorers moments, even if you choose not to read those nots they are there and you already assume something. and third thing about this - these note are illuminated, especially well visible in dark and there was already several situations where I see some light (which can also be treasure) from hard reachable places and when you get there there is simply illuminated not "nothing here" .. wtf.; 3) impossible to run away from dungeon bosses - this would be ok for most of games, but in my opinion not for this game, not for setup of how this game works - meaning game is hard, you don't know how strong enemy is and how he will fight (assumingly like in reality, but in reality you would have chance to run away), would be good and also kind of logic that you can try to run away (up to your luck and skill) and return more prepared. 4) for good experience big monitor is necessary - I play at 23" 1080p and that's definitely to small - not shows everything necessary, especially in boss fights. 5) maybe not so important, but I cant understand why staff is necessary to learn/store spells.. mage without staff is dumb or what? Mixed: - fighting mechanics, no comments here - not much explanation about things, but I should probably put this in positive things.. you can explore, find out or just google for it :) And things I like: - beautiful, big world (some here wrote that bad graphics.. idk, maybe, I am not so demanding, but for me game looks great, much of beautiful sceneries; - open map, you can go explore as you like, there is walkthrough part and (as I think) it's impossible to get pass those steps, but exploring/leveling in between is as kind of open .. anyway you will stay in zones where you can fight and win.. so this also kind oy limits you, but without fighting you can travel a lot; - the need to think; - open world bosses; - etc., etc. it's always easier to mention what we dislike In summary - just for comparison, I would say: imagine you are throw in the middle of Amazon jungle (not actual jungles in game, just for situation) and you should get out and have just rough understanding what to do, where to go.. you don't know how strong, poisonous, etc. are monkeys, snakes, bugs, etc., what caves you can find, what will hide behind next tree etc. .. There will be deaths, there will be frustrations. :) As I am not used to play games like this, first evening with game was not very positive, but, as for most of people, will to know and see more kept me in game and when you get stronger, get used to mechanics you just want to return and explore and try to overcome challenges that game offers. Actually, I think, if start would be easier there would be more positive reviews, I think many gave not so high score just because of hardiness, hiding with other excuses.
my best open world game an amazing world that you can not believe how much detail and story is in it . perfect open world game
This game is perfect! I give it a 95/100 just because in Lyndell, my Nitro5 was struggling to run at minimum. In Lyndell there is a lot of FPS drop and you need to watch a video to understand the history, its a little confusing. But for the rest, combat is perfect, exploration is perfect (man, exploration is not boring or tedious or repetitive, and each m2 of the map have something good especially items, weapons, sourcery or enchantment), price consistent with what they deliver, very good story (if you see a video because it is confuse), well-elaborated and difficult bosses (it's not that difficult impossible, it's a difficult that, if you are not prepared, you are nothing more than the boss and even so, you have a chance against the boss even without preparation and without equipment), THERE IS NO QUEST MENU!!!! First open world game that doesn't have a quest menu LOL! This is beautiful and the quests are excellent and you need to explore the world to do the quests and aren't stupid quests that is "Deliver a milk" or "Take this for me, it is in the hand of the boss in Stormveil Castle". To know about things in the world, it is necessary to talk to the NPCS and understand what they mean. Colloquial Brazilian Portuguese well inserted in the game, perfect translation with complex words that not everyone knows the meaning in Brazilian Portuguese. It's very good, I recommend tarnished! I haven't finished yet but I intend to play with all classes. PERFECT GAME AND DESERVED THE GOTY!
One of the best games in 2022. Visuals, Gameplay, even story man! what else do you need?
Incredible game that beautifully takes all of the souls mechanics and puts them in good use. Most of the PC issues are fixed at the time of writing this review.
A-yoo, by far the best game FromSoftware has ever made. It takes everything good done in previous games and improves them, also an amazing open world and suberb boss fights. There are also so many weapons and spells, allowing you have so many different playstyles. Indeed a Masterpiece, yep.
Game might be fun for souls fans but I didn't like enemy types and punishing gameplay. I can't recommend for casual gamers. Edit: After two years I returned to give it another chance but no this game is not for everyone.
When I first played this game I didn't really get it. After buying it on PC and going through every nook and cranny of this insanely detailed, layered world with some of the most fascinating storytelling and means of non-linear exploration ever - I think it's safe to say I get it now.
This game is... perfect, by far the best experience ive ever had, it's amazing to travel in this giant open world while getting stronger builds and killing bosses, it's pretty hard but it's better like this cause it's an actual challenge, not just exploring
This game might not be as good as Dark Souls 3, but I have to tell you, compared to all the releases we get nowadays, this is a masterpiece. The biggest issue as it was mentioned below, is the bad port for PC, they have not figured how to implement the controls on PC in a decent way yet.
Control, Graphics, Sound and atmosphere is top notch. Difficulty scales with time the player dedicates to get more powerful. A richly filled clever built open world with stunning visuals and innovative ideas rounds up this epic journey you will never forget...
Elden Ring is a masterpiece **** that represents the pinnacle of the action RPG genre. From the moment you start playing, it's clear that the developers have poured their hearts and souls into creating a game that is both challenging and rewarding. The graphics are breathtaking, with detailed character models and environments that are a feast for the eyes. The story is equally impressive, with a rich and complex lore that draws you in and keeps you invested in the world of Elden Ring. The characters are well-written and memorable, with their own unique motivations and personalities that make you care about their fates. The voice acting is top-notch, with talented actors bringing the characters to life in a way that few games can match. The gameplay is where Elden Ring truly shines, with a deep and complex combat system that rewards skill and strategy. There are countless ways to approach each encounter, from melee fighters to spellcasters to archers and everything in between. The loot system is equally rewarding, with a seemingly endless supply of rare and unique items that can completely change the way you play the game. But what sets Elden Ring apart from other games in the genre is its dedication to its themes. The game explores complex topics such as the nature of power, the relationship between gods and mortals, and the importance of sacrifice. These themes are woven seamlessly into the gameplay and story, creating a cohesive and immersive experience that is truly impressive. In short, Elden Ring on PC is a game that deserves to be played by anyone who loves action RPGs. It's a game that is both challenging and rewarding, with a level of depth and complexity that is truly remarkable. If you're looking for a game that will test your skills and engage your mind, look no further than Elden Ring.
After fixes and patches is one of the best games ever made , amazing music , amazing boss battles and amazing world. This is all the right steps for FromSoftware
Elden Ring is a true masterpiece that pushes the boundaries of the action RPG genre. With its breathtaking world, intricate lore, and challenging gameplay, it captivates players from start to finish. From the collaboration between Hidetaka Miyazaki and George R.R. Martin to the seamless blend of exploration and combat, Elden Ring is an experience that shouldn't be missed by any gaming enthusiast.
It is a very satisfying game. The game's graphics aren't particularly good, but it doesn't hinder the immersion of the game. For first-time players, the guiding elements of the game may feel unfriendly. However, the tense combat and well-organized openworld completely offset these shortcomings.
-The graphics are oldfashioned. -Dark Souls series were really good as each of linear games but this one struggled to be an open world game as all other games do but it failed very badly since the game repeats itself and the ruins the atmosphere. -The story is incredibly booring and foolish. -Mini bosses and dungeons repeat itself too much. -Very bad optimization the kiss of its death upon all these cons. -The end of the story doesn't look interesting and pretty ordinary. It's hard to understand how those who like this game. Looks like they have no clue about games or they're just teenagers playing these kind of games recently.
Mind blowing game. The environments, music, monster and boss designs all come together in a modern masterpiece. It is like they combined all the soulsbourne games into a final product that just delivers a fantastic experience.
Besides being visually stunning, From Software stepped up and showed how full of crap the game development world was releasing games with issues/large chunks of content missing and telling us that's normal. The game delivers on everything, from smooth gameplay to epic boss battles. And NOTHING is behind a paywall, not a single microtransaction implemented. Completing a section of the story and connected boss really makes you feel like you accomplished something in a way most games have lost. There is countless ways to play, with having definite differences in weapons and skills to choose from and so many things hidden throughout the world that if you don't use a guide multiple playthroughs could still leave you missing things. A game that was well worth the money when released.
One of the best RPG games, dark fantasy, and also One of my favorite games all the time. It's perfect, details, boss fights, enemies, areas, skills, swords, everything. It's hard and if you are fan of soulsborn games you are gonna love it. If you haven't play it then what are you waiting for, Go for it.
Fromsoft has been making the exact same games, except Seikiro, for a decade and the fanboys keep praising them for their horrendous design games. I have no idea what they been smoking while saying the game is fun, but the gameplay is utterly ****. The game is not hard because it is hard, it is hard because the gameplay is clunky and terribly designed. I've been playing it for 10+ hours and find absolutely zero enjoyment out of it. The art direction is very nice, I'll give them that. In conclusion, this is the most overrated garbage I have ever played since Monster Hunter World. Game of the year my ass.
Don't get baited by negative reviews. All of them are about the bad performance on launch. The game now runs more than adequate and it's easily the best souls game to have been released yet. The easiest 10 ever.
I grow bored of most games after 10 or 20 hours. But these games ... I finished after 102 hours and explored nearly everything. I enjoyed every minute of it right up until the end. Date Completed: 2023-06-05 Playtime: 102h Enjoyment: 10/10 Recommendation: So good
Man, this game made me watch countless videos, just for it's lore. The only souls-like that I have played before was a game called Eldest Souls and I started to really like the genre. When Elden Ring was announced, I decided to try it. After this, I just wanted to play and complete all of the soulsbourne franchise. My first soulsbourne game and it will not be the last. What a fantastic ride.
Amazing world and gameplay loop that falls apart in the last third of the game, leading to a disappointing sendoff to a truly amazing game.
Rating: 8/10 Elden Ring is an awesome game and has really polished what the Soulsborne games have offered to players, a difficult adventure, with less handholding than most games, a solid combat system, and a promise that you can beat the challenge if you practice. I thoroughly enjoyed this game, from the more fleshed out story with cinematics and more NPC dialogue than I remember in Dark Souls 1 & 2 (the Souls games I have played) and the more user friendly design explaining various gameplay mechanics to players and the freedom of the open world to level up & come back to challenges later. I didn't love some of the enemies and thought some were pretty annoying, like the big dogs, big crows, the enemies with a bunch of arms, and some others. In general though, the game had a decent variety of enemies though I feel like Dark Souls 1 especially had more variety and more interesting enemies. Fighting the 6th dragon of a different element was a little boring at one point. The standout bosses for me, like Malenia, Dragonlord Placidusax, Radagon, and Morgott were pretty freaking fun. Using the Mimic Tear summon was my clutch to not bang my head against Malenia & Lord Mohg after 20 tries and I still had fun using it, as a last resort. I didn't really love one mechanic that got me killed a lot, the long amount of time you are on the ground after getting knocked off your horse. That enemies can hit you during the beginning parts of the long animation was cheap I felt and I thought the knockdown duration should be the same as not being on your horse. Just a personal frustration. I thought the music wasn't as good as Dark Souls 1 & 3 and I couldn't really remember any theme after trying to think of one. The art style though is great and the graphics are amazing. Just looking up at the Erdtree and admiring it's grandeur always put a smirk on my face :D I love that physical & magic combat is so well mixed in Elden Ring compared to all other Soulsborne games. That you can use infusions & whetblades to give your weapons scaling with Intelligence & Faith opens up so many options for combat, I thought it was brilliant! Lastly, the open world was fun for the most part but did seem a bit empty near the end, with little reason for me to explore once I got my best weapons fully upgraded & was above Level 140. I explored pretty much everywhere just to see, but I think the developers had a hard time putting valuable rewards for exploration at a certain point, when I kept finding the highest level smithing stones when I already had 5 of each type (normal & somber). The areas stayed engaging for the most part & very pretty to wonder through, but I wish the enemy variety stayed evolving to discover new enemies & some story or lore rewards were given in the late game for exploration. Overall, this feels like the most polished version of Soulsborne to introduce to new players of this series of games. I highly recommend trying the game and enjoying the combat experience & world.
great game. playing on pc with ps5 controller, as i have disfunction in my hand. But it will only show xbox keys. as I'm not a pro gamer, this is VERY confusing. I wish i didn't purchase it
after dark souls 3 quaite a map of souls game. map almost a reseractions of old japanise game rpgs. remind me jewel master mega drive japan cover. that art coming to live full flesh comibnig dark souls game play and weapons. compared dark souls 1 map not connected like that there is no one main fire camp area like that. biggest miss about game this. still connected on many places but hidden mostly. compared ds1 also fast travei this time bcome available quicly which kill old game hard level quite bit. you have horse more like cow not goes too fast but can jump dable like mountain goats which you become mountaing goat try to reach everywhere which is mostly posible if you push hard. normal horse can be better . enemyies now have horse and requare horse fight to beat easly which weilcome add to serie. compared dark souls game not give you best knight armor on starting class this time. there is good knight armor in travel island area on seller women can obtainble on early but game hiding this time. not used on any cover or metarial like old games did. maybe bcouse of game try to presnet like game of thornes like wibe. this also effect magic use now more accasble and easy even allow to magic companions to easly distract bosses. on pc sadly performance not good. not physcal pc rlease on disc only have empty box relase. game map like bigger than all dark souls 123 games combined. giving you dlc like items variarty on base game this time.
Pro: - beautiful game - deep mechanics - lot of build potential - it is difficult, but not too difficult Cons: - quests are a joke without google - story telling is all over the place. I have 100+ hours into the game and have no clue whats going on
Kasvet + Rivers Of Blood + 2X Greatsword... Optimization is bad From Software.
This game is awesome! Most reviews complain about performance issues that got fixed a while ago. The Mouse and Keyboard input is bad to be fair. But if you have a Controller that's no problem. To be fair I think most people are just frustrated by the difficulty :)
Overall a good experience worth the pricetag, but personally a disapointment for a longtime fromsoftware fan. After the release of Bloodborne and Sekiro, as well as some comments from Miyazaki stating that the studio would expand it's portfolio beyond Dark Souls, people like me were naturally expecting new and innovative gameplay. Instead the game meets you with the same familiar combat system from Dark Souls but in an open world with brighter colours. This has no right to be a new IP, it is even less discernible than Bloodborne is to Dark Souls. On top of this, the trendy open world coupled with a myriad of accessibility features (spirit summons, OP magic, OP status effect, OP poise, OP weapons, OP shields and just generally OP and broken min-maxing builds due to poor balancing, a hidden pause button, mixing flask physique, a horse to escape fights, fast travel, as well as the usual ways to help yourself avoid challenge like player summons, helpful items etc etc et al) yeah well that just isn't it. People used to say if you used 'x' or 'y' you didn't really beat the game, now there is a whole alphabet of crutches that you can use simultaneously that anyone who tries to brag like this just comes across as newcomer and a clown. Elden Ring is, for all intents and purposes, baby's first souls game. Clearly an attempt to cater to non-fans of their games, which works to make money but hurts your reputation with those loyal players. And here is where things cascade. The large amount of resources spent in developing this open world, that would have preferably been spent on 2 or 3 smaller, better designed games, result in lazy game design in other areas, e.g. reused assets, many identical bossfights, dungeons on par with ubisoft's outposts, an unnecessary crafting system, poor balancing, bosses designed around glass cannon builds that amount to: *lazer them in 3 seconds or be lazered within 3 seconds* and not methodical back and forth rhythm combat, and level design that starts off well but falls head first down a cliff of frontloaded and barren areas. All of these factors, especially the copy pasting of bosses and minibosses, leave a bad memory of the experience, and due it it being a massive open world game, I just do not want to replay it because I know most of my time will be wasted traversing the vistas. On a more subjective note, I did not like the tone of this game as much as any of the previous installments, I get what they are going for but its too 'vanilla fantasy' for me and the art direction is a little mute and washed out with the erdtree being an eyesore that casts the dreaded 'piss filter' throughout many areas of the map. Multiplayer leaves much to be desired in the way of covenants, seemless co-op and oldschool invasions, open world isnt effectively utilised at all and adding the arenas was a good call but the gamemodes are not well made. They did a good job expanding magic and making it interesting I'll give them that, although it is completely broken and OP. In conclusion, I never expected a huge and impossible game from Fromsoftware. The long wait and enormous hype generated did not even meet the usual quality standards that they are known for with their previous games. Instead our patience was rewarded with this huge hype chasing flavour of the month title that rests on the laurels of it's predecessors. Very unnecessary, never underestimate a company's greed.
I have always struggled and gave very quickly on soulslike games but Elden Ring changed everything for **** you are still one of those please try again and stick to it until the end it will be an amazing experience and you will become a fan.
BEAUTIFUL LANDSCAPES + SPECTACULAR BOSSES + EXTRA DIFFICULTY PLUS = THE BEST GAME IN HISTORY??? Mmmmmm...sorry but nope. As strong points of Elden Ring, I can say that it is a fairly large world with spectacular bosses and demanding difficulty. It's a game for hardcore gamers or those with a lot of patience. The feeling of loneliness and emptiness in the game is palpable, surprising elements and curious secrets make it feel vast and deep, largely thanks to a visually powerful forgotten world. The truth is that the game's artistic aspect is its best feature. On the other hand, we have a mute and personality-less protagonist, a doll that walks, slashes, casts spells, and not much more. The story is incomprehensible to 99% of mortals. The game feeling is from 10 years ago with gameplay mechanics from 15 years ago, mediocre stealth mechanics, and overall, a technically very basic game. The graphics are not bad, but they don't boast anything extraordinary, and the performance is acceptable one year after its release. If you enjoy the feeling of solitude, isolation, and also like dying a lot, you might enjoy it. Otherwise, it's going to be challenging because this game doesn't offer much more. The impact it has had is simply due to the spectacularity and difficulty of its bosses, that's it. I'm sorry, but for me, a game is much more than that.
One of the best games I have played. The open world takes a lot out of BOTW's book but implements it in an amazing way. The amount of content jam packed into this game is amazing and I can not wait for the DLC. 10/10
Masterpiece. Absolute Peak of From Software games. The sheer amount of content available for the player to explore is absurd.
A game that should have never been made. The fact that this title is so successful has shown how sad the human race is. The game Is always punishing you because the whole uniqueness of the game is the difficulty. The open world feels extremely boring and I find myself frequently installing then uninstalling it. I don't want to devote my time to a game with crushing difficulty that might pay of when you win but who's got time for that. HOW IS IT POSSIBLE I LOVE DARK SOULS 2 AND 3 AND BLOODBORNE but hate this. Maybe cause From soft saw how stupid people have become and were like "hey let's just make Dark Souls but open world" GOTY? This isn't even game of the month for me. The game makes you seem like your in control according to its lame story but your actually not. If you love repetition and fighting in the same area a hundred times then finally beating it and doing the same at the next area this game is for you. Otherwise please stay away from this lazy cash grab ****. The gaming world's low standards for video games is why this game was such a hit.
There is an incredible level of detail and depth in Elden Ring's world-building, gameplay mechanics, and overall design. The gameplay itself is challenging and rewarding with a mix of melee combat, magic, and exploration. The world is filled with a rich variety of environments, from sprawling fields to dark and foreboding dungeons. Overall, though... it's good, but nothing I would play over a longer period of time.
Game is too big, sometimes to a fault. Some clunky animations, especially on the movement... and I think that are the only 2 flaws of the game. I'm not even gonna bother to explain all the positive. I think we all know at this point.
Elden Ring was my first FromSoftware game so I came in without expectations. The game is extremely hard but that's what's makes it so much fun: Overcoming the challenges. Also there are a lot of systems which help with the difficulty like the spirit summons and the NPC summons. The world building is amazing. The design, feel, music and atmosphere are 10/10. The game is extremely immersive and invites you to explore. I really liked the open world without minimap directions. This is what an open world is all about: Exploring for yourself instead of being constantly guided from one quest to the next. Unfortunately though, this also leads to the point I disliked the most: The game tells you so little about what to do and how to do it, that you end up constantly tabbing out and reading the Elden Ring wiki or Youtube Videos for explanations. There are entire NPC questlines where you would never guess where to go next because the next location the NPC goes in an OPEN WORLD is complelety random. I think in my first playthroughj, I spent just as much time reading guides as playing the game which to me is just bad game design. You should not be constantly guessing, there are game design principles for a reason. The other thing I didn't like is that you don't really understand the story as it is told in an extremely vague way. As I said the world building is great and oozes with little details and lore, but for understanding the actual story you again have to watch a half hour Youtube video. So all in all it's a beautiful and captivating game which unfortunately explains too little. 8/10
Masterpiece! Amazing combat, super immersive, amazingly designed open world with a shape that hides its true size. No boring dialogue, no cutscenes, no NPCs talking about useless **** just pure gameplay. I 100%-ed the game in a little under 100 hours, and had a blast for the first 90 hours or so. After 90 hours the game becomes a bit stale, especially in some endgame areas that could have used a bit more work. But definitely a worth for your money.
A gloomy world, an amazing atmosphere, enchanting music, swamps and your plaintive cry.
Amazing lore behind the game and good bosses but if you play the game blind you end up wandering around aimlessly and do **** all for 2 hours finding **** weapons and smithing stones that you already have hundreds of. Most dungeons are small with weak and **** enemies and minibosses that have been reused 3 or 4 times so that they can fill out a redundant number of 165 bosses. Also the good bosses are "optional" and there is nothing in the game that ever tells you where they are, how to get to them or how to activate it. 80% of your playthrough the game feels soulless and has the personality of paint-stripper with a side of a boiled towel. Yum. Most hype train shills will tell you that nothing tells you anything because its a true open world masterpiece and that you are actually free to do what you want because there is no quest marker and no npcs that even slightly hint at the next destination and how the arrows pointing around at the graces is genius because it does absolutely ****all. Cope
It's a solid game with nice looking graphics, even though some animations could be better. The gameplay is easy enough, which makes boss fights fun at first, but it gets boring rather fast, because they are very limited in their move set. The most important part for me however, the story... is rather lackluster. I don't know. I gave this game a try, but so far it's... idk.. meh. It's fine I guess, but it could be a lot better.
Gameplay : 8 Graphics : 8 Story : 7 Sound : 8 ********************************************************************************** Overall : 8 (not finished)
Really good Game! The Combat is nice, and feels like dark souls 3 combat. The Open World is detailed and well done because you get a rough direction, where you have to go but it is up to you how much you explore. Really well done open world and combat. The story telling may be not the best but personally I liked the story even when it was confusing to me sometimes. The only downside of the game is the pc Port but I can not complain because I have 3090 and with that the game kept running smooth but I saw performance issues on slightly older graphics card wich are still powerfull. This should be kept in mind when you buy the game. But this is the only real downside it is such a great game, and I can only recommend it to Soulslike fans :)
Amazing game, I wish other developers would take note on how a modern AAA title game should be. So much detail, thought, and content is packed into every sq inch of this game its unbelievable. FREE DLC IN 2022?? UNHEARD OF! Boss battles are addicting and left me grinding for hours even after non stop failure. Bravo fromsoft this game is well deserving of GOTY and deserves the praise it got.
Elden Ring is a massive iteration on what FromSoftware began with the Souls series, bringing its relentlessly challenging combat to an incredible open world that gives us the freedom to choose our own path.
Elden ring is the first souls like game I've ever played and it did not disappoint one bit. The gameplay is crisp and the game is filled with enormous content. The game does not feed you any forceful tutorials and rather lets you explore everything on your own. The game lets you discovered everything due to your own curiosity and you have to accept the consequences that come with it. Elden Ring has an amazing leveling up and inventory system in which all categories are equally important depending on the style you want to play with throughout the game. You can put 100's of hours into this game and not get bored. I hope we get more games like Elden Ring as time goes on because as of now I believe this game can make a case for the greatest video game of all time. I believe its flawless in its own way and if you enjoy open world games, you will not regret giving Elden Ring a try.
Not just another hit for fromsfotware, but a stellar and somewhat perplexing evolution of the soulsborn formula. As someone who really enjoys exploration and deep combat systems Elden Ring really checks all my boxes with my only real complaints being regulated to the grindy RPG elements that are present in all RPGs.
How to define Elden Ring in one word? : Beautiful Good points : - The World Design is masterful - History and Lore - The bosses (not recycled) are super stylish - The characters are super charismatic - Very few bugs (must be emphasized anyway) - Combat and exploration still fun - The rhythm of the game which reveals you little by little (unlike a Ubisoft game) - The constant wonder Negative points : - Recycling bosses - Far-fetched quest systems and secrets - Difficulty too simple compared to another FS (because of too many possibilities which allow to pass the too complicated obstacles) Elden Ring is one of the biggest video game slaps I've eaten in a long time. This game is pure hard drugs
No ultrawide support, they even went the extra mile to add black bars... That is bad practice if anything.
This trash dark souls like games, nerds talk only about difficulty, but they never played For Honor - lol.
This game is crazy fun and addictive. It is hard. Very hard. But it feels insanely rewarding when you beat a boss or a difficult area. The world is breathtaking and the soundtrack amazing. If you beat/enjoyed breath of the wild you will enjoy this game too. I am 70 hours in and I am only about a third of the way done with the game. It will give you hundreds of hours of fun. EDIT: I have not played this game in months due to how much I need to grind to be even close to progressing. I hadn't seen much of the grind before but now I do. Still a magnificent game but do be aware of the grind.
Realistically I'd give this game a 8/10 but since it got review bombed so bad, twice, im gonna give it a 10.
Good: - Best Openworld on PC - Best combat system - Frustration and addiction in constant change - There is something to discover everywhere. Every part of the open world has recognition value - Even in the third run you experience new areas. Simply huge! - Massive enemy variation compared to other open world titles Bad: - Quest system is not transparent without guides and very frustrating with the huge area and amount of content. - The incredibly good story is told too cryptically - so you have to do your own research here too.
I bought this game the day it released not knowing what to expect and I've been playing it for a whole year.. The world is mesmerizing. The game doesnt hold your hand like other RPG's, you have to explore and meet wacky characters.. I agree that quests can be a bit complicated but nothing extra hard.. This game really deserves a GOTY and I do believe that 30% of the people that gave this game a bad score got FELLED BY MARGIT THE GREAT
This game has the worst combat of any game I have played. It's worse than the first Witcher game. All the attack animations are slower than molasses in January. Blocking animation takes forever. The game is designed to make grind to level your character, by going back to respawning enemies which has always been cheap and terrible game design. After finishing this trash in 120 mind numbing hours in this slog, I have no idea what the story is even about.
Best game ever! Brilliant minds made a magnificent game! This is a must play game. This game include a huge range of content!
how did this win game of the year? Firstly, the pc port is bad. Secondly, This game is a fever dream. Amazing story, gameplay and writing. GOTY? No. Good pc port? Maybe. Good game? Yeah.
Great game. Yes, this is the usual Dark Souls, but it is very large. And very detailed, it is insanely interesting to explore. The feeling of traveling through a beautiful unknown world for tens of hours. One small minus - repetitive bosses. Everything else is perfect.
A beautiful game for sure, though cruel sometimes. An interesting fantasy world, that takes much from many places, without making it apparent or dull. However it is a step down compared to previous games, which were undeniably better. The story wants to be played again and again before revealing to you some things, the world is too big, and in the open world the desing is often ambigous. Even through the proclaimed westernization of FS's games, this remains a very interesting work that they've done.
It is not the best game in the world. It's just one of the representatives of a cancerous game genre that appeals to a specific players. It's a game with its own unique genre and it's unique in its gameplay and storytelling. It doesn't appeal to everyone. It's not a game that even every RPG player can play. That being the case, it's impossible to say that Elden Ring is the best in the world when it's a game with such sharp boundaries, and it's impossible to match the reality of the Soulslike genre. Those who make such comments have never played another game in their lives and are pathetic enough to think that beating a boss in such games is an achievement. They are also stupid enough to characterize anyone who thinks differently about such games other than themselves as incompetent. Stay away from such games and fan bases. Waste of time.
As the first open-world game from From Software, it's pretty good. When it became clear that the game would be open world, there were doubts and not without reason as it turned out. The game is good and it will give you a lot of adventure, but the quality of that adventure is debatable.
A perfect title with immense size and fun packaged into the lands between. With various fine tuned weapons and spells Elden Ring creates a world that is worth exploring.
do not mind the negative reviews this game is wonderful and one of the best of the year if not the decade I platinumed the game and I think I can give my opinion because I beat the 3 dark souls and I say that this game is all the best in the others improved I never played sekiro or bloodborne but I'm sure that elden ring is the perfection of all the games from it doesn't need a quest on the screen saying what you have to do you do what you want without a list and the best open world game in history until so in my opinion
Elden Ring was a real disappointment. It is advertised everywhere with 100/100 scores. Nowadays, everyone is playing it, everyone is praising it, and the praises won't even end on every YouTube channels and game review site. I bought it because it was called as "Skyrim + Breath of the Wild" many times. But the result is just frustration. It is obvious that it was made without thinking about the PC. It was designed exclusively with the PS4/PS5 in mind. Gameplay mechanics and combat dynamics did not go beyond the Demon's Souls game I played in 2009. There is no such thing as "Online Co-op". Putting this game under the tag "Online Co-op" is just scam. But hey, "who pays money gets the hype marketing". Yahtzee actually gave the best review: "it's a FromSoftware Dark Souls game, and therefore, good." It is just another Dark Souls game, nothing more. 5: Below average - It may not appeal to everyone, but there are interesting ideas from time to time.
Such a wow. Great game I advise everyone. the free world is what this series of games lacked
a great open world and amazing to play once or twice. since the world is so huge it isn't really fun to play more than once though, as it can be quite daunting to traverse the world from the beginning again. still an amazing game.
Incredible quality game, interesting dungeons and bosses. Not a bad constructed plot, I hope the series will develop and make games more than once every 5 years
I am Malenia, Blade of Miquella! Bring it on, From Software! Best developers on the planet! All hope is for the Japanese devs! I love u, 宮崎 英高,
One of the best game in the game history,congrats to the fromsoftware team.
In many ways the best FromSoft game, but there are some regressions. It plays absolutely beautiful, improvements to spell system, movement, etc. Cons: - Way too big. Too many reused bosses. Makes those encounters way less special - I found the story to be genuinely completely uninteresting. Even after reading up on it, it does not hold a candle compared to Dark Souls lore. - Loot is often just useless for your build - Balancing is rough. Some parts are way overtuned Despite these issues the game is really really good.
Absolutely unplayable garbage, and I don't mean the games technics. It runs fine. Rather the game itself is bizarrely overhyped garbage. Elden Ring is a game of pure power leveling. You absolutely cannot improvise or out smart your enemies, you are either at a certain power level and will win, or you are at a certain power level and will lose regardless of what you do. The enemies are all stupid mindless trolls that just repeatedly run over you or are crushed by you, nothing else happens in combat. It is the dumbest combat I've ever experienced in a game, immensely stressful in its stolid, simplistic stupidity. As for the lore and supposed great story with GRRM, it's a big nothing burger. There is literally no there there. Everything in the narrative is an anomalous grab bag of emo fantasy cliches. The imbecile nature of the game's structure prevents anything remotely resembling fluidity in the narrative. It's a great empty hodgepodge. Never before have I so baffled by the praise of something, not even mere videogames. This is the most wrongly hyped trash in history.
Could have been one of the greatest FromSoftware games and greatest games in general. However, it is held back by bad balancing. In the early game you can make a build that completely breaks it but the late game gives enemies so much health and damage that you need one of those broken builds. Frame rate and stuttering issues on PC still haven't been fixed making the game look better on a PS5 than on an RTX 3070 even almost a year after release. Other than that is a game with incredible scale and even better quality. Must be good if I've finished it 6 times
i have never played a souls like before and was allways scared of trying but this game inpressed me a lot the combat is really fun and the animations are dope and the world is amazing aswell truly a must play
I love this game so far. It's exactly what I was waiting for with the next iteration of the FromSoft "souls" formula. I love the look, the story, and the innovation to the world and combat in a lot of ways. That being said, the open-ended nature of the game can get disorienting at times, and make it hard to know what to do next. I do have a few other minor gripes, but just like its predecessors (except DS2) it feels like the game is fair and always balanced and just requires you to make the correct decisions in the heat of the moment.... UNTIL.... the frame rate stutters like crazy for no reason and then you die... Maybe when they fix the PC performance issues, I would bump this up to a 9... but I'm taking off -1 due to these issues as, even though they aren't game-breaking, they sure are dissappointing. (for context im running a Ryzen3700x and a GTX 1070, and it manages to hold 1080p 50-60fps pretty much 95% of the time)
It's really hard for a game to get a 10/10... Elden Ring does everything right but I really feel like the armor designs are lacking as well as a lot of weapon designs, I also feel like there could be a wider variety of moves and combos for each class type (side note: classes are pointless). Maybe I'm just a noob to the genre but its important to remember that this review is subjective and someone else might love the designs and class system because as a whole the game works perfectly and I believe that these cons that I mentioned are all intentional from the developer, it just comes down to a matter of preference. For my first souls game I loved it! Trust me this game is amazing and all negative reviews should be ignored
A very solid 9 but there are many reasons why it isn't a 10: Farming is complete BS and always has been. Some quests are once again very difficult to follow and you can miss out on great items because of it. Some NPCs have no purpose in some quests and are a waste of time. Crafting is mainly more farming. PvP is decent but there are too many one shot possibilities and mainly it is Ash of War spam and not much else. We have the usual happy Fromsoft mixture of some good boss fights and some awful. I could go on but overall it's still an excellent game and if you are a Souls' fan you will almost certainly have a great time with it.
This is the best souls yet. I love how to game focus on gameplay and you have to search if you want to understand the story.
I like exploring things and Elden Ring seems to have lots of stuff I can explore. Probably one of the best open world games I've ever played. Right next to Breath of the wild for me. And I even got called maidenless, which I can relate to since I have no maidens irl (although I do have friends, which is even better than maidens in my opinion). That plus you can fight a lobster in which I don't want to get pinched by one so this is a win win for me. So yeah, 9/10.
If you are a fan of souls-like genre, just go for it. For sure it has some minor fouls, but hey, it has 94 metascore. Just go for it.
a great game in all aspects that continues and improves on the achievements of previous games (ds1-ds3 and so on). glad that the developers decided not to continue the limitation in character equip (glory to souls fashions). graphical part of this game looks insanely good, except the fact that game doesn't support 21:9. The main plot as for same for all souls games is usual "deep lore and think for yourself what really happened in main story". And core part of the game is gameplay one is perfect combat system which has been honed over the years. as conclusion every game of FromSoftware Inc. became bigger better and complicated and this game brilliant example of this tesis.
This game is literally up there with Zelda, BOTW and Witcher 3. And the biggest compliment I can give to this game is: I have beaten this game 3 times. PONS: • Great story (but not the best) • Addicting combat • HUGE open-world • Full of content • Amazing Boss-Design • Breathtaking visuals • So much replay value • Vast variety of weapons and builds CONS: • The bosses Post-Game feel a lot harder than usual (for example Malenia) This game absolutely deserved GOTY 2022
this game is so much fun that I beat it 3 times and there are so many things to do and routes to take that it feels like I have so much more to experience and to do in this game overall this is my favorite game. ++ great bosses/enemy designs ++ exploring the open world is amazing ++ really great bosses ++ really great zones and areas ++ the build-up in the game + funny builds + really great music + Wondrous Physick +- the pvp's a bit mid -- some things are not balanced at all - the starting is a bit bad - mouse controls there is so much stuff in this game also they have a good reason for reusing things because there is so much in this game and it makes the game even better so it ends up being a positive. I have also played some of their other games too.
By far the best game FromSoftware has ever made. It takes everything good done in previous games and improves them, also an amazing open world and suberb boss fights. The levels are spectacular; there are also so many weapons and spells, allowing you have so many different play styles and builds. The online plays are fun, with now arenas dedicated to PvPs. Truly a Masterpiece.
People like me have wanted an open world dark souls game for a very long time and from software followed through. They did an amazing job with the gameplay mechanics, storytelling, and graphics. If this is your first from software game, please go play dark souls first because this game will slap a newcomer in the face with the difficulty. I would recommend this to anyone who is looking for a true challenge and lots of hours for your buck.
Disclaimer: This is my first FromSoftware game, so I'm reviewing it from that perspective. I've played for about 90 hours but haven't finished it yet. I purchased it around Christmas 2022, so my experience with bugs has likely been better than that of those who started playing earlier. What I like: The world is huge. The legacy dungeons are well designed. The atmosphere is cool. You can tell there was a lot of attention to detail in the world design. The play style is fun even if the controls are a bit weird on PC. There are many ways to play with different builds. What I don't like: The story and quests aren't easy to follow. I don't want a game to hold my hand, but this goes to far in the other direction. While some level of challenge is good, there are certain areas and bosses that go overboard. Repeating the same section of dungeon or boss over and over until you learn what works gets boring and frustrating. Ultimately, there have been too many times that this game has felt like work rather than entertainment. Rating: This game is overrated by critics. That doesn't mean it's a bad game, but when I scroll through the list of games with metascores in the mid-90s, I see a lot of games that I enjoyed much more than this one.
A fantastic player experience, couldn't have asked for more. Does a great job raising the stakes compared to the Souls series and Bloodborne. Great innovation opening the world to even more exploration.
The open-world formula does not improve the Souls-genre, and rather bogs it down.
My PC: RTX 2080super, R7 3700x, 32GB RAM, NVME SSD; Recommended System Reqs for this game: GTX 1070, R5 3600x, 16GB RAM; My PC simply cannot handle the game, the performance is awful, even worse than on PS5 while PS5 GPU is an equivalent of RTX 2070. So, there simply no optimization for PC players. Issued a refund after 1.5 hours of playing since the game is technically unplayable for me: 0/10
A masterpiece from From Software. A new perspective of open world. Amazing variability of combat, every weapon has a different skill, different animation, different feeling. Besides weapons, there are few dozen of spells. I've played this game over 150 hours and still discover something new. As we know from previous souls-borne games, Elden Ring have a story telling like other souls-borne games too.
despite the bad optimisation on launch, i absolutely fell in love with this game, i'm a huge fan of from software production and it didn't disappoint me
From Software is raising the bar with every game it makes, this time to The Lands Between. Elden Ring, which was recently voted the best game of the year, offers us the unique breadth of Zelda's open-world and the compelling atmosphere of the souls genre. Even naysayers who are against it because of the difficulty reduction and dungeons that make you feel like you're doing the same thing as you wander through their depths, every one of the gamers will be amazed when they open their eyes in that glamorous land where the majestic Erdtree reaches the vast sky. As you and Torrent -our mighty horse- enter the misty forest following a wolf howl you hear, our curiosity will be piqued each time by something else. After defying a gigantic and grisly snake while trying not to be swallowed by the lava in Volcano Manor, we will be amazed by the sky in Nokstella, which feels like a fairy tale. Begin your journey Tarnished, go and be an Elden Lord as you like.
The love that breathes in many of its aspects, compared to many modern games gone wrong, says a lot about this title. If you're a fan of FromSoftware, they've done a wonderful job.
Elden Ring is of of my favourite games of all time mixing the great soul formula into a almost perfect open world just makes one of the best games ever made
The Low User score is because of bad people who thought they buy a skyrim. But its different than that. Its harder and you dont get hold by the hand the whole time. Get good.
a very very very good game. Gaming:10/10(a very freedom open world game although its traveling is not as fun as Zelda. its levels decide are very well just like other soulbrone game ) story:9/10(
I just don't get it, It is one of the worst game I have played for a while. Performances and Portability: Even with a RTX 4070 TI, there are FPS drops! (On a dedicated SSD) Not compatible with Wide screen. (My opinion) The visual aspect and animations are really poor 60 FPS cap (wtf??) No DLSS option Menus are PS1 like Gameplay: I love hard games and complex gameplay, but if you like to be destroyed in chain the time to get some stuff and XP you will enjoy it. Otherwise no...
Awesome game that has a lot to offer for both people coming from previous fromsoft games and people new to them.
There was a huge amount of reused assets, which completely breaks the immersion. Also, due to the open world, you're always underpowered or overpowered, there are only a few scenarios where you're actually playing on the difficulty that you're supposed to. The Game is still very fun and the main levels are amazing. I also love the theme better than in DS3.
Great game has great graphics and interesting story, you can go at your own pace and you set the difficulty you can over or under level if you want to make it challenging or just chill.
I can say that this game looks great and I didn't want to kill myself while playing or dying dying dying.. There are some performance issues but I'm sure these problems will be fixed soon.
Elden Ring is essentially a Witcher 3 without plot, lore, choices, developed characters, mini-games and soul. It's just a simulator of sword wielding, roll and dodges on empty map with random NPC's on it, remembering me of games that me and my friend in 2007 were making on FPS creator - we were also taking a random map and also filling it with random enemies. The difference is that we weren't selling it for 70 bucks and we knew that a game requires a plot, and the studio that developed Elden Ring doesnt Elden Ring should be a mod of Witcher 3 that removes all plot from the games and leaves only enemies.
There are almost no changes on the game, same thing over and over again. Empty open world, there are no physics, does feel like a 2008 game. Bad performance, old mechanics i don't even understand why anyone likes to play this game. Almost no story telling, you don't even have a proper purpouse. It feels empty and shallow and actually it is easy to play for the open world part you can kill most of the enemies with just doing lapses with the horse. Enemies are not clever you could trick them easlly i played 5 hours and killed every boss that i encounter at the first time. The only thing about this game that hard is the comand system and it's hard because it is clungy and slow most of the time and once you get use to it it is easy to kill anything. No impruvements since the first soul game, like i said same thing over and over again.
Seriously i do not understand the hype of this game. This is just a mediocrity in all areas. It's trying to be "hardcore" makes it lack in every other areas. It's graphics are "just ok" for current generation, it's story is extremely shallow (a powerful item will make You a god, go kill some other gods to proove you are **** a nutshell). There is no worldbuilding as there are no sidequests, the world is completely empty, there are only monsters with occasional trader (wtf?!), the controls are out of this world. this is something that people should be fired for. Character progression and scaling is a joke, for 30 hours Youre a pigeon, and then suddenly you become a demigod, stupid as hell. There are myriad of weapons, which are not really unique, they fall into several categories and then they are the same, unless they have some special skill which completely changes how the game works, which is another stupid mechanic. I understand that some people might use this title to flex how good they are at difficult games, but this is just a modern Super Mario, yes, trust me, all bosses can (and must be) memorized, and then they are easy, exactly like arcade games from the 80ties. This game can feel really difficult at first (like all Souls games), but after hours of failing it suddenly becomes easy, where you one shot enemies and even bosses with some "super build". Stupid as hell. I finished it, but i suggest staying away from this game unless You want to become frustrated, it's not fun.
im a souls like fan & played games like nioh dark souls 1 2 3 & bloodborne sekiro &... but this Game is super unbalanced even if u explore map & farm in dungen still u cant beat bosses like godskin & higher boss unless u have a unbalaced weapon like that ice staff &... u cant beat game with ur sword game is super unbalanced
Amazing game is amazing, It's sad to see such upset people, I dont think there gamers. Anyways it's a really awesome experience everything should play it. It won Game of the year after all!
In summary, I would like to say that it is a good game. No more, but also no less. The character animations look wooden like 10 years ago. The graphics engine is outdated. 16:9 only via external flawless widescreen tool and 60 FPS lock. Weak. The game itself is exhausting and demanding. It's not fun, a feat of strength to get through. A lot of running, horizontally and vertically. Thank goodness I had help from the **** walkthrough, otherwise I would probably still have been searching next year. The side quests are garbage. The main story is irrelevant. But the cool thing are all the bosses, the battle system, the control with gamepad (GREAT!), finding new armor pieces and leveling up is great. The crafting is completely superfluous. All in all a good game. 80 percent. No more, no less.
An incredible game and achievement. The scale and scope of which I didn't think was possible coming out of Fromsoftware. I clocked in 170 hours traversing the Lands Between from start to finish. I have 2 minor complaints. Max level summons made boss fights easier than they should have been. Some of them were downright trivial with my summon. My second complaint was that this world is just too dang big with too much to explore. More than once I found myself saying, "This HAS to be the last area. Enough already". Close to a perfect 10 but not quite.
Truly a masterpiece, everything that worked on previous souls titles was brought here and it was improved greatly.
Game was amazing. The open world is very big and interesting to explore. Main bosses and locations in the game are great. I would definitely recommend to play this game.
Greatest of all. The perfect artwork from FromSoftware. An experience that will never be forgotten and last forever.
My favourite FromSoftware game after Bloodborne. The fantasy and setting makes it like the Dark Souls games but grander and much more colourful. Boss designs are more inspired, regions are fantastic and the general enjoyment is pretty high through out. The sense of wonder in exploration is only beat by Breath of the Wild. Some tid-bits really brought it down for me though. I explored this tough dungeon till the end and once I opened the final door I got a curse which removed a character from the game for me. No more interaction with this character, and no heads up as I had missed the interaction point with it. While the character was not important, game felt very lonely after that and I stopped playing for good 6 months. Once I came back I was determined to break the curse that would have given me the worst ending and I did so, but this break in-between over event that annoyed me does bring the enjoyment down a bit. In a world this grand I wish there were more lines of dialogue. Malenia or whoever was your companion should have popped up much more often in my opinion or at least given us the option to have some extra narration on top. Similairly how the head is at the back of Kratos in God of War. I understand that it would break a bit the "devastated" immersion of the world, but still that's just my preference. All in all great game. Bloodborne's aesthetic and gameplay was better though, would be great if they made that one as grand.
To me this game is just short of a masterpiece. A culmination of everything FromSoft has learned from all the previous souls-like games. I understand this game isn't for everyone, as the game hinges largely on its game play which as times can be legitimately unfair.
Elden ring is a fantastic well written, well designed game that deserves a goty. The game is challenging which is great, hard and smart ai in a good way and combat/gameplay is fluent and well responsive The story telling is unique and requires you to read and not be lazy and of course overall this isn't the type of game that holds your hand and spoonfeeds you like a baby which i think is great and much needed in more games ...
I'm really sorry, but I just can't manage to like this game. All I saw was a pretty world, and some NPCs that got me really interested, just to disappoint me later with how poorly written they were. Congratulations to the artists and composer, but that's mostly it. Just like other souls games, it ironically felt very soulless to me personally.
The game just felt kind of boring, it looks great and controls well also but there wasn't ant real sense of progression beyond listening to new character talk like a reddit or discord mod tipping a fedora. It looks great and the boss fights are fun, the rest was meh.
I didn't enjoy Elden Ring at all. I found the story bland and soulless. The world was so empty and seemed more like an interactive level select screen than a living breathing world, and it had no soul. I don't play action games myself, but I watched my favorite streamer as xe did a play-through, and the combat just looked bad - jank, over complicated, and I couldn't find any soul anywhere. Arkham Knight perfected combat almost a decade ago, its a wonder developers are still struggling with it today. The soundtrack was bad, and could have used some soul. You could tell the person who designed the UI has never even heard of soul. There doesn't seem to be any battle royal mod, in 2022, which is just...yeah. Do NOT recommend.
The best Souls game I've played, the world is really large to explore, you don't have to defeat a boss to open the map, there are many character classes and many weapons and skills to choose. This is a really good game.
Unfortunately it's very bad PC port in terms of UI experience and mouse/keyboard usability: - Hardcoded keys which you can't rebind (eg: E/Q in menus) - Can't use mouse to scroll the map - Can't put bookmarks on the map by clicking the mouse - Quite often moving the mouse over menus or clicking them isn't registered properly - When you have lock on the monster and want to look somewhere else with your mouse, the lock changes to different monster - multi button keys, which you can't remap to keyboard - inconsistency with menus - you close some menus with "esc" button, others can't be closed with it and you are forced to press Q button - and much more On top of it essential quality of life features missing, like comparing stats of items in the shop with the ones you have equipped. Fix your PC port, because it's unplayable with keyboard and mouse.
It's a privilege to be a soul player. And this is the best soul game ever made. It's Not a game for everyone, it's a game for those who understands the SOUL of Elden ring
THIS IS DEFINITELY GOTY, A DARK SOULS BUT OPEN WORLD IT'S SIMPLY PERFECT! if sonic frontiers is better than this game... I AM A BUZZY
Story is completely lacking and without cohesion. The controls are terrible and the majority of keybinds cannot be changed. The gameplay and combat is worthless. Unnecessarily hard. To the point that it feels like a punishment. I have never hated a game this much in my life. After 80 hours, decided i was stupid to keep playing. Deleted. Goodbye Elden Ring and From Software can get stuffed.
a great open world with a somewhat unbalanced gameplay and powerscaling still, a very good game
A masterpiece of soulslike formula. Break the greatness of other games with the grinding and cheesy ways to pass through bosses. becomes a little repetitive in the end, even though still fun and playable even for the ones who's not on fromsoft games.
A game that give you everything : Challange and consequences , narative , gameplay , a vast open world. It deserves GOTY 10 times over.
They added coliseums, you can invade and be summoned from anywere to anywere, and You can beat your enemies with a litteral finger. 10/10 best game ever.
From Software was never worng in anything. I **** can produce the amount this one does on youtube, you gotta know its good.
Game is amazing how ever 21:9 Monitor are not supported just lol , bad port to PC
the balance is terrible but this is the best open world game i ever played but the balance is still terrible
It's a very delayed review because my monitor broke, but I see that fanboys and those who write reviews with money have raised this fiasco game to the level of unrivaled. Anyway, let's move on to our real unbiased review. Let's start with the mechanics as always, there is no innovation in mechanics, standard soul games, jumping is added and has almost no effect on the game. Open world was added to the game, but mechanically is there such a thing, the answer is no. The game is very big, there are incredibly many castles and dungeons you can visit, but they are all flat and empty inside. Let's start with the castles, when you start the game, you look around and see the incredible map and you start exploring, traveling and wandering around in castles that last a maximum of half an hour, yes, you did not hear wrong, the time you spend in castles is half an hour, including Lyndell! All of those incredibly designed castles are just images, empty castles with no design inside, filled with creatures and left. When I look at the old souls games, designs like DS 1 Anor Londo, DS 2 Drangleic castle are bigger and more detailed than all the castles in the Elden ring game combined. Ds 2 had this success despite being a half-open world, Elden ring is a huge empty world full of creatures. The only good thing about it is that it looks great artistically. I have explained the chapter and map designs together with the mechanics. Now let's look at the small innovations and whether they have an effect on the game. Let's start with the mount, we have a horse-like mount in the game, this mount allows us to travel around the whole world, we can do combat and boss fights in some places and it has no mechanical effect on the game. The things we do with the mount are very limited, don't expect something like Zelda or Shadow of the colossus. When I say Shadow of the colossus, they said that they were inspired by Shadow of the colossus before the game came out, there is nothing about it in the game. Since jumping was added, the platform was expected, which it should have been, but they didn't put it, the jumping mechanics look ridiculous even next to the games 30 years ago. Let's talk about dungeons, there are dungeon designs that are so terrible that they compete with Skyrim. You enter hundreds of dungeons throughout the game and except for a few, they are all similar designs. We have come to the end of our review and unfortunately Elden ring is not a good game at all. The same mechanics, open world game mechanics and design are not reflected in the game, nothing good except for the improved spells. Elden ring is the biggest fiasco of this year. 57/100 if we come to the score
Elden ring reminds me of Silkroad on time! Time flies... A great with game with RPG mechanics but I can't be Geraldo Del Rivero. Why? I deducted 1 point for this reason. That's too bad.
Brilliant game design with possibly the most disappointing execution of any game. It is truly impressive how much they reuse assets.
Fantastic game, love everything about, the visuals, the soundtrack, the gameplay. More FROM please!
Amazing game Amazing music Amazing world design this game open for me souls born games!
I honestly didn't enjoy Elden ring I'm kinds sick of souls games but ya no argument there definitely deserves game of the year although I don't see why they felt the need to call the game Elden ring its just dark souls with a new coat of paint just call it dark souls 4 or whatever they probably changed the name because too many people would have been to intimidated by dark souls reputation and would have dismissed the game me personally I just don't have the patience for souls games anymore all the dodging and learning enemies moves sets its just a big headache for me I just want to kill the guy and be done with it just like doom eternal all this jumping and switching weapons and waiting for the marauder to flash green it's just a headache look at halo one (on legendary)that was a hard game but fun and fair nowadays games are more like halo 2 (on legendary) jackal snipers everywhere and the moment they see master cheeks they light him up like its the forth of July its just a big headache I like hard games I just don't like the headache that come with them most of the time
Why is this game so much better then God of War? I notice how every negative review mentions it, and I think it deserved to beat it at the Game Awards. Sorry Kratos fanboys, you loose ;)
Game is good, everything you can expect from a fromsoft game and more. However, after about 15 hours into the game, I can say it runs absolutely terrible on PC even after almost a month since release. I ran the game at medium/low settings at 1440p and was still experiencing occasional stutters during my whole playthrough of 130+ hours. This should not happen given the system I have, and I am able to run other graphically demanding AAA games at max settings/resolutions, so it is disappointing seeing how fromsoft seems to care little about pc performance Ryzen 3600 RTX 3070 16GB
1. The advantage of making exploration fun because there is no marker on the map 2. Battle of the Soul Series Spicy Taste 3. The unique art and atmosphere of From software 4. Monsters' bizarre appearance that can feel the taste of the employees 5. Map configuration and directions designed to feel the director's viciousness 6. Open World This game quickly captivated me and became one of my life games
Fantastic game. One of the best i've played. Has everything you want, an amazing openworld, monsters to fight!
This game is skyrim for a new generation, it deserves all the praise it has gotten so far.
It's a shame God of War can't even compare to this game. What a shame, but oh well, we won Game of the Year!
This game is AMZING. One of the best games of all time. These people are insane who are lowing the review score. Screw them
If you didn't like this game you're an NPC normie and you got filtered. Keep playing your goyslop Jewstation games.
Caused me to finally "get" the Dark Souls formula. I've since beaten DS1, DS3, this game 3 times, and Demon's Souls up next. The build variety and combat in this game are simply unmatched. I can barely stand the mashy combat style of games like GoW or Spider-man anymore.
this game is really bad i dont like the combat it is hard for the sake of being hard
An ambitious, challenging, mysterious, and splendidly detailed swords & sorcery action adventure with an excessive variety of environments, monsters, characters, weapons, gadgets, and magical spells to experience. Yet despite this variety, the adventure can occasionally feel tedious and repetitive if you insist on thoroughly exploring every single optional region in the certifiably immense open world. Most of the technical bugs and irksome game balance issues have been properly addressed in game patches since initial release, so I can now recommend Elden Ring with full confidence.
A massive game that is only made massive by copy-pasted bosses, lazy design, lazy areas etc. The stuttering and lag on pc's even high-end is a joke, terrible port of a terrible game, bordering cash grab territory.
Elden ring is a game that proves how much infulencers can effect people. Making a hard game and try to make it look like a good game strategy is should have ended with darksouls 2 but here we are again at this point we should make a hard mario game and pick it as a best game of the year
Elden ring is a love letter to Fromsoft and souls fans. It's combat is addicting. Vast amount of choice to play how you want with tons of weapons, spells and items. While new players may struggle to get to grips with the difficulty. They do offer so many things to aid you if you are stuck. Even leveling up you start to feel like you can handle something you couldnt even better. Overall I'm… Expand
Terrible. No story, no voice acting, just cheap mechanics for edgy players.
I literally don't get the hype around this game... it is so empty and boring. Why have so much space with enemies so far and few between... It's like death stranding but somehow worse. How is this game so lauded as being so great?? Literally mind blown.
i really like not much in this empty game. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
A true breath of fresh air. Not many single-player oriented games can warrant endless playthroughs. The amount of depth within this game is truly astonishing, not to mention the crazy amount of build possibilities. Unfortunately the overall review score is hindered by inevitable review bombing on this site. I personally haven't had any issues with the PC port. Highly recommend to anyone, especially people with prior soulsborne experience. Fromsoftware does it again!
Elden Ring is developed by From Software and published by Bandai Namco Games
Great game overall. Great open world, great gameplay. The game is certainly not for everyone, but if you like Souls games you will have a lot of fun playing Elden Ring.
Game stutters far to much even after patches. Happens the most during fights and around every few minutes. Would recommend waiting for issues to be resolved before buying unless you want to play on the hardest difficulty available...
Best souls Game ever. Amazing open world, extreme huge world ever seen in a game, Astonishing Bossesn Graphics are extremely solid, Incredible environment, Despite performance issues even in high end.hardware, still the crown is for Elden ring
It was the best purchase I ever made. Everything in this game is perfect. The difficulty isn't too high to die from every enemy fart, but it's not too easy either so you fly through the whole game with a weapon that's only half pumped and level 60. A difficulty that challenges you quite a bit. The visuals in this game are also great every time I use magic, weapons with ash that have visual effects I get maximum enjoyment. The bosses all look both beautiful and menacing at the same time. And even when you just travel around the map, your eyes rejoice watching all this beauty. The music in this game is also great. When you fight the boss or just with the enemies, all this is accompanied by great music, which keeps you in suspense until the end of the battle, but you never get bored. In general I give this game a 10/10 rating and think it and only it deserves to be the game of the year.
Elden ring is Assassins Creed: Valhalla of souls games, bland. Finished it 3 times, got platinum trophy and I have no interest to play it anymore unlike previous Fromsoft games. PvP is straight up bad, netcode is terrible, lore is meh, bosses are mostly meh or reskins of previous cool bosses, performance is bad, there are bugs and glitches everywhere and balancing in this game was made by disabled chimpanzee.
Very fun and challenging game! I like it, but sometime will rage because I ****.
I certainly didn't expect this... Veteran Dark Souls player here and a longtime fan of Fromsoft games. I thought that I was going to love this game and that it would occupy my time for many months. I was wrong. The joys of traversing and exploring the open world get old very fast. I was bored of it after only a few days. It takes forever to accomplish anything. Essential items are scattered across this massive map and it's such a slog to travel around and collect everything. I really miss the linear level design of Dark Souls. And for what it's worth, I loved Breath of the Wild and Assassin's Creed Valhalla. I am not a stranger to open world games but an open world version of Dark Souls just didn't do it for me. I made it to quite late in the game. I was only a couple hours of gameplay away from the final boss battle. Eventually it just hit me like a train and I told myself that I don't want to do this anymore. I just don't. This game just didn't click with me and I would much rather play Dark Souls 3 over Elden Ring. Edit: Editing this review many months later. I did go back and complete the game, including the optional bosses. Yes, I beat Malenia and no I didn't use summons or spirit ashes. I've seen everything the game has to offer and my opinion remains the same. 6/10. Dark Souls 3 is a better game.
One of the best gaming experience out there. One of the few 10/10 game in my opinion. It’s a must have! Amazing graphics, beautiful scenery, good writing, great combat, memorable characters, intense boss fights, ton of exploration and NO BUGS at launch (at least i haven’t found one). One minor issue is the performance issues. I played on a high-end laptop and i couldn’t run it in 60 frames and it was constantly dropping. Laptops are probably not the best platform for elden ring! Conclusion: One of the best gaming experience out there. One of the few 10/10 game in my opinion. It’s a must have!
Elden Ring doesn't innovate enough, like the original Dark Souls, to merit the shower of praise it has received from critics. And it doesn't excel in atmosphere and storytelling in its genre like Bloodborne does. Without these things, I cannot consider it a masterpiece. What it does do really well is introduce a stunning open world that is filled to the brim with content. Not all the content is great, but most of it is of such high quality that it boggles the mind. A lot of people might see a reused boss or animation and immediately rage and give this game a 5/10, but that doesn't bother me and shouldn't bother you, cause theres more than enough unique content here for anyone who is being sane and level headed. At the end of the day, I can't give this any more than an 8 because once again, by playing it too safe, From Software has simply failed to produce something at the quality level of the original dark souls.
Another souls game I tried to get into. Its' strong points is a interesting story. Weak points is everything else, especially considering how many soullike games are out there. The control scheme is weird, and I don't see why I have to go through this. When I can play any action rpg on hard mode, and go through the exact same pain, but have more fun.
Brilliant world building, gameplay, story and exploration. Not much else to be said.
I love this game. I struggled at first and almost gave up after 2 hours...I watched some youtube videos and saw how many different ways enemies could be brought down and started a new character and ended up playing through the game twice. I am actually excited for dlc.
Incredible game! I'd say it's the best game I've ever played. There is so much to discover and if you thaught you've seen everything, there still might be some secret spots you left out. Great combat, beautiful and huge map, interesting and well designed NPCs and an overall challanging experience. Great choice to spend your next 150 hours with.
At last... an open world game that doesn't hold your hand while ramming exposition down your throat and throwing a bunch of objectives at you. goat 11/10 Gotta love the dad of war shills review bombing this game lol
BEST GAME ever game of the year and it is way better than any other open world games
Best souls game I played! The combat, world, level design, bosses, everything so perfect!
If you rush you can make it the hardest Souls game you've ever played. If you take it a bit slower, it will be similar in difficulty to the old games. If you take it very slow and out-level content it also fits the bit more casual player, although don't think it will be easy. The open world and "questing system" are the new benchmark for the entire genre. For me it's one of the best games I've ever played.
Game is unbelievably perfect unfortunately had a rough launch with bugs but those have since gone away this is so close to peak gaming the innovation here is incredible and a great sign for what is to come.
Another impeccable game by FromSoft what can I say, an absolute 10/10 in every category, only complaint is more pvp development and better pc port
Sony's trying to monopolize metacritics via buying user reviews to destroy ER reputation and praise ridiculously bad part of GOW. I'll judge fairly and hate Sony for doing it forever. Great game, deserves at least 8/10
Deserves game of the year better than god of war ragnarok. If this doesn’t win game of the year I will kms
THE 2nd BEST GAME I'VE PLAYED IN MY LIFE -
Honestly I wish that they would go back to linear world next time. Open world didn't benefit this game at all, at some point there was too much stuff reused just to fill the map. Ds3 is overall better but gameplaywise this one wins :)
I'm not a fan of the "Souls-type" games and I vividly remember how bad the Dark Souls port was, but I thought I'd give it a chance since there was so much praise for Elden Ring. The result: I've spent more time in the character generator than in the actual game, because the controls are so atrocious on PC that it's simply no fun to play at all. You can't rebind all keys and I couldn't even increase the mouse sensitivity to a level where I could properly move the camera. It's absolutely laughable. The thing is, I've learned to live with bad controls and other shortcomings of other games, because the story and overall feel of the game was gripping me. Elden Ring didn't. The story as it was presented was so ridiculously generic that it didn't motivate me to spend another minute.
hell yeah, maybe the best game ive ever played haha, but i think a lot of games are a 10 and this game is wide wide over 10 !
I looked forward to playing this game for quite a long time, so in order to be fair I needed first to dedicate a good amount of time to the gameplay. To begin with: the graphics and textures are well polished, in a Demon's Souls manner. However there's a general feeling that some things feel seen already... (again, in a Demon's Souls manner) I concluded that's because it's the same engine, which is just natural. Designs are just mind blowing! Simply find some spots and enjoy the view of characters, scenery and landscapes, it's gorgeous. There are gamers who buy Fromsoftware products just for their art and there's a reason for it. Mechanics: here's a milestone where critics and users differ. They're fabulously implemented, it's another of its strengths. But a few times they feel recycled from previous fromsoftware games, even "Sekiro", both in the main characters as in npc's. The new ones I loved to see and interact with them, there's so much effort and dedication in them. This contrast kind of begins to weight against the game since their previous games are well known and letting users note this as soon as the first mini-boss appears (that knight on the horse) does add against it, since you feel there's a prequel-sequel relationship, which as authors advised, there's not (c'mon guys just go with it, let the gamers have their fan-lore). Nevertheless after some hours of gameplay you realize this is not the trend of the game. Which is why it is to be forgiven. Lore: Amazing of course. But we need to draw a line to make different points. The background, as it's obvious for everyone, feels again a fusion of older concepts and newer. But the plot is massive(r), dark and sad... Classic Fromsoftware, classic Souls-like, classic Miyazaki. Here's the signature of the author. Conclusion: Just like in artworks like paintings, poems or sculptures there're points that are alike, that's the style of the author. It's the world in his head that he is showing us. The disheartening feeling, the death mechanics being part of the life itself and the game experience against frustration to direct the player towards resilience. That's the plus you get after playing this game. It makes you grow through the gameplay. The word "game" is something that begins to feel out of context here. It's not about "fun" (even though its really fun), it's about the interactive experience of being inside the world in the head of the artist. Imagine exploring a painting, a song or a poem.
Great game, fun to explore massive world, combats amazing souls combat, and plenty of animals labeled dog.
If you like dark fantasy, souls games in general, or are a fan of it's granddaddy Berserk anyway... why are you even reading this? It's a great game, one of the best. It has it's flaws, surely had them in the beginning and it's absolutely against current mainstream in all ways possible, but this just makes it even more unique. And it's better than DS2, so 10/10
It's literally just a walking simulator except you might have a hammer sometimes.
Absolutely brilliant game. Not the normal Dark Souls that I love, but it's damn close.
masterpiece 9.5/10 pros: everything cons: in last few hours, side activities dosnt have new stuff so i rushed throw last hours
What FromSoftware did here will be very difficult to beat in the future. You can clearly see that they cared for every single small detail be it the music, the lore, the level design, the gameplay and even the graphics (they're just at point considering it's a truly open world). 10/10
Very good, its a souls-game just improved upon with bigger lore and more broad gameplay opportunity also that its open world which makes it fun to explore and get better equipment use on the bosses.
Best game of the past decade. Exceptional graphics, very replayable and fun with any build. Exploration feels unrewarding enough and some fights feel tedious. But none of that is comparable to the overall experience.
Elden Ring is by far the most innovative game produced by From Software in the last decade, culminating all the things they've learned along the way. Popping out of the linear game design of the previous titles gives the player base more play on the way they approach the game, alleviating the notorious difficulty the previous titles have had.
Probably the greatest game I've ever played, and I've been playing for over 30 years. So much joy in exploration and satisfaction in combat. Like the perfect synthesis of medieval fantasy and lore in an epic RPG. All the negative reviews are either bots or non-gamers who have no clue about what constitutes excellence and can't get past Margit or Stormveil. The art design is absolutely breathtaking, the soundtrack enthralling, the gameplay is superb. Love love love this brilliant work of art!
Check in stores for the Gummy Bear album on November 13th for lots of music, videos, and extras
It's hilarious watching people trying to review bomb a game as good as Elden Ring. Keep crying Horizon fans :)
Master piece **** no other games has presented at this scale and beauty. Were vastly drawn into the world once I started playing. In a age where AAA games are filled with micro transactions this game with lesser content, this truly was the holy grace for me.
Elden Ring starts out slowly and painfully (especially for newcomers to the Souls games). But stick it out and you will be rewarded with a game that is incredibly satisfying to progress in, unlike most other games today. The world design is also just incredible - the further in the game you come, the more amazing world design becomes. It is an incredible game that stands out above everything else made in many years.
From Software bestowed upon us a brand new dating simulator where we the Tarnished look for a Maiden and on our travels we encounter some of the most terrifying, god-like beings in The Lands Between This game is one of the few games that actually made me cry, suffer and pray. The story is A Lonely Tarnished/10 Gameplay 8/10 Visuals 8/10 Music 10/10 Quality and Polish 8/10. This is a game with an acquired taste, players new to the souls-borne formula will either hate this game or love it, it really depends on their perseverance and your mind and soul's endurance. Elden Ring is a game that shows that you do not need fancy mechanics, and cinematics for an experience, it's all about how it feels and how the player responds. While it does make use of current Technology in the cinematic and gameplay department it is however a little outdated. So I expect the next game to double down on producing a Souls-borne game that is purely Next-gen, something greater than Demon Souls Remake and Elden Ring Combined. I have played 200+hours of this game, and at first, I was sceptical about Elden Ring as I only Played Dark Souls Remastered in the past but when I kept playing I was pulled into a world that I am glad to have experienced and stuck with. This is a 9/10 game even with early performance issues, and some crashes I encountered, it did not stop me from reloading and playing. Good luck Fighting GOW Ragnarok for GOTY.
Very enjoyable. Played 200 hours so far and still a lot of content. Amazing boss design with great soundtrack and world building. Combat system is fair and diverse. Very good game.
In my opinion, this is GOTY. Sekiro was my first ever Fromsoft game, after which came Elden RIng, and I had never played through an entire game with this little hand-holding before. I understand that's not everyone's cup of tea, and it wasn't necessarily mine either, but I have come to love and appreciate it. The story, soundtrack and extremely versatile gameplay was exactly what I needed, and it's currently tied for my favourite game of all time alongside The Witcher 3
Pc version of the game is as good as the console counterparts but with some performance issues depending on how good your pc is. I played on a RTX2070 and countered only some freezes every 10 hours of play. Still a must play on pc or console++.
One of the Worst games I have ever played in my life and trust me i have played some ****
As a player who got all achievements in this awesome game can assure you that it worth your time. Absolutely great new Babadzaki & R. R. Martin world!
Everything about the game feels wrong. Not even a single thing makes me think it is right. -Multiplayer is Buggy as hell, all the functions work clunky, the mount gets in bug, the server connection gets in bug, there are tons of visual bugs, teleporting doesn't work right, quests are not functioning right, etc. -Some classes are op while some others are weak asf, such as the blade of bandit hits only 15 while the mage skill hits 350 and the scaling makes no sense at all while leveling up. -Even some little mob can 2 hit you in this game, which is not the problem, but the problem is that these little mobs are coming so often and they have very terrible hitting animations that makes it almost impossible to dodge, block (blocking is terrible anyways), and every time you die that makes you walk 3 more minutes to the little mob you died and you repeat that sometimes over 10 times. You walk that reasonless checkpoint-mob way for 30 minutes in a run. -Playing archer is over pointless, where you have to get your arrows by buying for an expensive price, since you mostly need around 15-20 arrows to kill one weak mob (75-45 damage per arrow) that only gives you 100 points, which you waste almost 300 - 600 points to buy those arrows, or you have to grind some 10-15 minutes of mobs to replenish those arrows with crafting, which is WASTE OF TIME while you can do 350 damage with a little portion of your mana. -Most of the items found in the wilderness give no clue about how to use them, and even if they do they are useless most of the time that feels like just cosmetic roleplaying consumable stuff that wastes your time even more. -Story stinks from the beginning, is very boring, nonsense, non-clear, chaotic, and it even makes you consider why this game does have a story for real. In my opinion, it could be better if there was no "FORCING IT" to storytelling in this game. -Map design is very complex, it doesn't show anything really, you don't know where you should be or are going. -Animations are... No comment, really. -Bosses or mobs don't have a clear attacking pattern, they are attacking very randomly that is hitting you 1/2 of or the whole of your health which makes you run another 3 more minutes. Which is already impossible to dodge or block (which doesn't need to be added into the game if it was going to work this poorly). +Only thing good about this game might be the graphics, the graphics are good, but only graphics doesn't make the game fun while it is suffering from mechanic, engine, and gameplay aspects. Conclusion: The game is Exaggerated after I played and experienced it. This game is for people who probably like suffering, hardcore mental grind, and a game that is unpolished and broken all the way. This game started a genre and popularity that drove lots of indie or developer corporations to make "Souls-like" games more and not even one of them was successful for God's sake. They need to stop doing these terrible game-set-driven games where they don't Success "AT ALL". Only the "FromSoftware" games about souls-like were successful, not all of them of course, and yet they were all probably rigged or exaggerated in my opinion. I played all of the dark souls or its copies, and they were SUFFERING my enjoyment, a game was meant to make me enjoy while these were making me get frustrated and wanted me to leave the game immediately.
One of the best plots i've ever seen! Miyazaki is a genius! The most interest gameplay
Elden Ring is another excellent work by FromSoftware, arguably their best game to date, despite the fact that the PC launch performance was rather poor, though it was addressed and fixed soon after.
Story mid gameplay mid graphics mid and honestly if you enjoyed this game idk how it’s just wasn’t appealing and I genuinely like open world games but this one just isn’t it
I love the world art, I love the adventure, I love the boss designs, I love the weapons, I love the customization, I love the challenge but I can hardly know the lore because it's so confusing but still it's a 10/10 for me. I played for 150 hours yet still there are things that I want to do.
The most beautiful game I have played in the last few years. Great experience!
Fromsoft continues making the best games of all time. I don't know how they do it.
The game is a masterpiece, like it or not. Of course it's difficult, but that's just part of the game. The thing is: You level yourself not only your character. But of course that isn't for everyone. Don't buy it if you are scared of challenges or like to blame everything but yourself for your lack of skill.
Just made an account on this site because I saw how many bots and sub-humans review-bomb this game. It's a shame. They clearly have to be held by the hand and baby-sited in the games they play. Go play GoW: Ragnarok u filthy casuals! Git Gud!
Amazing world and combat and enemies. Story is sparse and hidden mostly in item descriptions which takes getting used to. UI is a little clunky, but the experience and PVP make up for it.
I'm not a gamer, before this game I would only play things like farming simulators and very simple RPGs. After 300+ hours in this game, and three different save files with different builds, I can say this is the most fun I've ever had with a videogame. The game can feel difficult, sure. But it constantly gives you options to overcome this difficulty. You can keep trying until you learn your opponents patterns, you can create a super strong build, you can use your summon ashes, or request the help of other players. It's a grand adventure and the sense of accomplishment after you defeat bosses is addictive. Beautiful game to look at, too.
Best game of the From Soft Series. Gameplay 10/10 Difficulty 10/10 Story 10/10
Simply an amazing game and easily GOTY material. A culmination of everything that makes Souls great. Magic is more fun and satisfying than ever with great weapon variety to match for melee focused characters. It expands on Dark Souls III's weapon arts system and is satisfying to use.
I was not previously a Fromsoftware fan- I just didn't get the appeal. After being gifted Elden Ring, and giving it a try, it finally clicked. This game was such a masterpiece that it caused me to go back and play the Souls games. I got all Steam achievements for this game and platinumed Bloodborne. Also just here to counter the review bombers.
a masterpiece. It took me quite some time to finish it but didn't feel bored ever. I wouldn't place it as high on my list as Sekiro which is my favourite but ER definitely is high on the list. ER is quite different from the usual open worlds, because no hand holding which I quite enjoy.. would play it again with a new character as soon as my exams are over.
Fantastic game worthy of Game of the Year. Other people that are rating it low do not understand From soft games. It's like asking a person that doesn't like seafood to rate sushi. You will never understand the nuances and the masterfully crafted world if you expect easy mode handholding. Once you embrace it you will then appreciate its majesty
Only bad side is it makes other games feel incomplete. It will take game of the year and nothing will change that.
This game made me feel like a kid again. I had gotten to a point where I enjoyed playing video games but they didn't hit in the way that Ocarina of Time or Majora's Mask did when I was younger. The sheer awe and wonder I felt exploring new areas, and the fear and anticipation of not knowing what you'd face next. It's a game you know is going to be hard, but is so fun you run straight into danger.
no words needed This game is the best game in the world. 2022 GOTY Elden Ring
Pros ------- - Combat is top notch - The art style is very impressive - The world is absolutely beautiful - The world is huge. There are several big areas and also subterranean areas which are also huge! - Coop is extremely fun - Unique, dark and mysterious atmosphere Cons --------- - Story ****, actually it is really poor and 95% of the time you will be fighting and don’t care about the story. Also, the story is very confusing - Open world feels like empty filler sometimes and serves no purpose in many areas - Copy/Paste bosses - Basically Dark Souls 4 but with other item names. There is nothing really new here - Game is extremely long with reused assets. Half the size and less copy/paste would have been beeter - There is quite a number of unfair /cheap bosses, unfortunately also the last bosses (Malenia, Elden Beast). Boss design was better in DS3 Overall a very good game, but it is not groundbreaking or innovative.
I started playing with my friends at launch but we quickly lost interest in the game which weird because all of us are big soulsborne fans. However I recently found myself bored during quarantine and tried it again and was shocked. Now I don't get why we dropped the game. I played trough it three times now and got one of my mates to finish it as well. I believe what turned us off the first time was the open world aspect but now it is one of the strongest points in my opinion. I particularly enjoyed the bosses in the later half of the game, when **** really starts picking up. I get that some people are annoyed at the amount of recycled bosses and areas, and I get it. But I also dont mind it, as it makes sense in the context of the world of Elden Ring. The music is awesome, the amount of variety is great and the combat system is once again top notch. I gotta admit however that the PvP (Which was the most enjoyable thing in past souls games to me) is really not my cup of tea. The netcode is bad to a point where some weapons are almost unusable in PvP (I played with rogiers rapier for almost the entire game but its not made for PvP) The open world and the fact that torrent becomes unavailable in PvP means people can hide in almost unreachable places, which makes Invasions incredibly frustrating and a few more minor issues stopped me from PvPing altogether. However overall it is one of the best games Fromsoft ever made and an absolute recommendation from me. Especially to people who are new to Fromsoft games, as I found it very beginner friendly. Crafting seemed useless to me at first but proved to come in handy from time to time. Plus the fact that there are crafting materials everywhere made exploring the world feel more rewarding. Its definitely game of the year contender and one of the best single-player games of all time.
One of the most incredible games Ive ever played. -source; I have over 300 hours.
This game deserves to be called a masterpiece. I had no technical difficulties what so ever. I do understand that this is definitely a big problem for some, but I can only speak for myself and I had no performance issues at all. Sure the formula of the game itself stays the same, it sure feels like and open world DarkSouls just with some new and refreshing features. But those features are great. The world itself is awesome and just invites you to explore it. The music, the graphics, the boss fights are so immersive. The whole world is, it just sinks you in. And there is so much to discover. Hidden worlds and areas, secrets, different endings. Completed it within 80 hours. A must play for every RPG and Soulslike fan!
Same Combat mechanics for 13 years already (2009) just added with a Open World more like Open Field...
If you are new to souls like games or not its simple the top 3 souls like game for sure, but you NEED the minimum requirements to play the game to have a good experience :)
Overhyped game that feels the same like previous souls demos bloodborne games just add an open world and throw bosses and quests randomly.....
The only Souls game I have played and it is a great experience. The open world is crazy looking too.
This game pretty much defined what users should expect from AAA games. No micro-transactions, no lootboxes. Everything about this game is near perfect. we need to expect this level of quality from devs from now
It's the most fun open world game ever played, the ultimate embodiment of the Dark Souls series
No ultrawide support on a 2022 PC game and still no patch to give ultrawide support! Wtf were they thinking to release with no ultrawide support for a PC game!
There's a huge amount of Bosses that look amazing and creepy but the Gameplay & Inconsistency of the bosses gets a bit annoying overtime.
It is NOT a souls game. What a souls game for fans of the series is? It is a never-ending sense of constant threat, claustrophobic feeling of imminent danger around the corner, sense of loneliness, a permanent maze-like feeling and happiness when finding a shortcut. There is nothing lake that in ER. In Bloodborne i wanted to open every door and pick into every window in every location, in ER i just want to the open world to end and find a castle, or a village or something to explore. Souls games are know for insane amount of details concentrated in average sized locations. When you transfer these details to an open world they are non existent anymore. Elden ring also lacks music and atmosphere. Do you remember the goosebumps moonlit melody gave you when visiting hunters dream in BB? Do you remember the incredible atmosphere in Sekiro created by music? You will not hear anything like that masterpiece in ER. Lets be honest alright? Turn the music off in Witcher 3, any Elder Scrolls game, RDR2 etc etc...Half of your joy and pleasure from playing the game will vanish. Creating an open world for ER (which is mostly empty btw) they totally forgot to add decent music to it and therefore no atmosphere is in the game. Bosses are dull, sidequests are almost impossible to start or finish without checking on internet, insane amount of items just brings confusion and does not really add diversity to gameplay. Overall it could have been a very-very good game if devs just made it 2 times smaller, removed fast travel mechanics (made us travel only from bonfires). And dear devs, please, stop adding grotesque British accent to every npc in the game. It really does not do any good to your games anymore.
Excellent game. It's maybe the only Open World I love. It's the only one I can travel anywhere without a map because every place is unique and exploration is so rewarding you put many hours into it. Have you tried GTA, the witcher, cyberpunk or Skyrim without a marker, GPS or minimap, even after beating the game? On top of that, level design and art is beautiful Gameplay wise, it's varied with lots of cool weapons and differents playstyles. I prefer games with simple controls where you need good reflexes and game knowledge than just farming for better gear until you can tank more hits than your opponent. These type of games are usually unbalanced and too easy in late game or too hard early game. Story is cool but, like sekiro or dark soul, the lore is what makes it very interesting. This is the type of game where you question yourself about everything and you go online to look for answers and you realise that you barely touched the depth of the lore (just like lords of the ring, for exemple) I'm just sad that it's locked to 60 fps on PC.
exceptional game, exceptional future a game that deserves to be tested and enjoyed. The atmosphere, the music, the gameplay, the bosses, the open world... everything is perfect and with an appreciable difficulty that will not leave anyone indifferent
One of the best open world games. The visuals, the enemy designs, the combat, and difficulty is really good!
Basically, this game is Dark Souls 3 in open-world. IDK why so many people flattered this game like it was revolutionary. Story 2/10 - It has the same flaws as DS3, it has a story too subjective and I think Elden Ring's story managed to be even worse than DS because at least in Dark Souls the story was more philosophical and it gave meaning to certain things like why the Ashen One and the enemies don't really die. Also, there is no sense of progression, I don't even know why the character want to be the Elden Ring and why he need to fight so many enemies in the way. Surely my biggest disappointment about Elden Ring was the story since George R martin helped in the story production, I was expecting a story like Sekiro, not a DS3 story copy but way worse. Combat and gameplay 8/10 - it is the same way as DS3 but with more weapons, spells, and items and more elements (like your horse). I felt that the open world was very cool at first but after 15-20 hours of gameplay I didn't like it so much anymore, I rather play in the closed maps but well designed (and the game has many maps like that so it is fine too). One thing that keeps the same **** is that you obtain dozens of cool weapons with unique ash of war but you can't use 90% of them because you need to re-do your whole build and that is so difficult for no reason. Overall, it is a great game, it is really really long (it took me 107 hours to finish it) and with almost endless maps, secrets, enemies and bosses. I can see the devs really put their heart into this game. So my final score is 7/10.
Yikes, definitely listen to the few and not the many when it comes to reviews of this game. I pirated this trash and still felt ripped off. The "revolutionary open world" is one of the most empty, devoid of life maps I have ever spent time on in my 25+ year career as a gamer. It literally feels like they had an entirely different company make the map and then fromsoft just went in and randomly placed mobs and "bosses" (since I guess we're calling anything with 500+ hp a boss now) and decided they were done. Fights are extremely lazy and predictable, I was actually falling asleep DURING BOSS FIGHTS just evading and waiting for my little windows to attack, which has never happened to me in any souls game. At this point I'm convinced the fanbase for this game is just degenerate weeb garbage people that have convinced themselves their precious cult leader can do no wrong, when he very, very clearly can.
Great way to adapt the souls like games with their gameplay loop to the open world format. Outstanding story, graphics, gameplay, and everything, as is such with from software games.
Overhyped and overrated. After milking dry the Demon's Souls formula for 13 years, From Software has created a Frankenstein's monster by slapping together a whole bunch of elements from other games, without perfecting any of them, while using a severely outdated game engine. They have combined combat mechanics from Sekiro and of course the Souls games, but it feels neither as fast-paced and dynamic as Sekiro, nor as "strategic", punishing and claustrophobic as Souls. The difficulty stems from lazy and unfair enemy combos, as well as new enemy movesets that are simply frustrating and annoying. "One boss is too easy? Just put two of them into the same room then! Add a cheap area-of-effect move to every large enemy, as well as a thrust attack with insane range, with infinite stamina of course!". The open world was obviously created in BotW's image, except that it's much less beautiful, much less lively, much less fun to explore and navigate. From a technical standpoint, the game is a disaster. From Soft have rested on their laurels for too long and fell behind big time. Time to catch up before they go the way of Bethesda. That's unlikely though, seeing how the deluded fan cultists have turned this game into perhaps the most overrated title of all time. Next up: Elden Ring 2, with the same clunky gameplay mechanics, same outdated graphics, same lore and no plot to speak of.
Super fantastic game but what else can you expect when George RR. Martin and Miyazaki work together. The only downside is that the game occasionally has FPS drops and crashes. Otherwise, one of the few games where you can not go wrong if you buy it at full price. Especially if you are into the Souls genre.
Probably the best game I've ever played. As a Dark Souls veteran this is the game I was always wishing for. If you are looking for a game that will give you hundreds of hours of fun, an insane story and one of the best open worlds ever, this is it.
Open world fits in the soulsborne games perfectly. You can see people say "It's dark souls 3 with mount and jumping". You can be sure about jumping and mount really matters in the soulsborne games and that caused with level designs considering to these mechanics. So that two mechanics aren't minor **** or sth. It is one of the best games you can ever play and best game of 2022 since Feb for now
This game is a masterpiece. It's one of the most beautiful and well rounded adventure games I've ever played. It is very difficult at times, but usually fair. There are a huge variety of ways to play, giving the game aot of replayability. The game systems are great. The world is really compelling.
Elden Ring strips down the core aspects of gaming (combat, platforming, exploration) and hones them into near perfection. The result is a remarkably tight hack and slash adventure that provides near endless replayability. The art direction is often jaw-dropping, as seen both in the open world (such as Nokron and Liurnia) and in the imaginative menagerie of bosses (Ancestor Spirit, Mohg). Not to mention Tsukasa Saito's score punctuates all the dramatic moments and landscapes with a stirring, ethereal aura. The learning curve is doubtlessly massive and punishing. However, I found this challenge to be a refreshing source of fun.
I didn't like any of the soul games but this one is an exception because it gives players options to summons and find good gears when they are stuck with a hard boss. This alone makes the game so much more enjoyable for me.
Meh, they are doing the "body a" and "body b" thing again. Kills my excitement.
Boring, bland, repetitive with poor optimization. How can i enjoy the game if i don't know where to go and what to do without youtube guides?
=========== worth it everybody must buy it (goty) =========== - 80-180 hours long (have alot alot of contents) -unoptimized and reharshed bosses -awesome main bosses,game have alot of skills and magics. -now will design open world souls game and goat da best have doable jump.
This is a harder than average RPG. It's possible to play with other players, but the bosses will increase their difficulty to compensate for the extra players. The trash mobs, especially when they have to be fought in groups, can be overwhelming. The interface is very complex and not very intuitive, so it takes a lot of study to advance your skills. The mood is overwhelmingly dark and there are few areas where you could enjoy a walk in the country with a friend. In any given area, difficulty may range from straightforward to catastrophic without warning. Dying resets all the enemies plus you lose your wealth unless you can make it back to where you died and then exit safely. I could recommend this game for HARD-CORE players, and would discourage novice RPG learners from attempting it.
Even with the latest patches as of 09/2022 there are some glithes when changing video modes and NO WIDESCREEN SUPPORT! Seriously, from software? This is cheap, lazy and lame port from console. You sell this game for PC for 50-60 and don't bother at least do some effort to make it right for this platform!
Playing Elden Ring is a really intense experience. The game is capable of keeping you alert and aware of what is around you at all times. I must also highlight its intricate and outstanding scene design, which encourages you to explore every nook and cranny. Its visual section makes the game a piece of video game art. As a negative point, I would say that a diary or similar is missing with which to follow the missions. Also, the animations of the character to get up or drink potions are very slow and it is somewhat frustrating not to have control over him for so long. Full review in Spanish: ****/analisis/analisis-elden-ring/
Lord of the Rings wishes it was as epic as Elden Ring. Such a fantastic game.
I love this game, it's really fun. Alot of build variety, tons of content, and alot of fan support.
The atmosphere and artistry of this game is out of this world, like all "soulsbornsekiro" games by From Software. The only cons for me is the performance of this game and technical aspect of graphics, the textures, shadows etc. looks like its game from the early times of ps4. HOWEVER, the art aspect of graphics is amazing. The last drawback for me is the vibe of the rainy location in south of the Limegrave, and often the game feels too much "rainy" and "foggy" for me, its of course entirely subjective. I rarely gives higher scores than 7, but this masterpiece own it, for sure.
Granphic is terible in 2022 very bad story is understinable no points where to go
This Video Game is indeed a true experience. You get to be whoever you want in a fantasy setting, amazing mount and a beautiful story.
My first souls ****'s amazing This game,best for begin soul's game
Good-looking and detailed enemies placed in a empty half-cooked world with basically zero content. Enemies cheat since they can read your inputs, and your time and patience gets severely wasted with checkpoints so far away and respawning enemies and bosses with absolutely zero drop-rates. Its a mess and its bad. The "story" is barebones at best and never picks up any speed or even builds any signs of sensical story-arc. The dialogues - as scarse as they are - are often nonsensical and lacking any kind of information or lore. The world is filled with nothing but mini-bosses. Its empty and void. You can explore just to find maybe some more mini-bosses (some of them get recycled a lot!), but their drop-rates are insulting so you'll ask yourself why even bother? Why even bother backtracking half the time or killing the same enemies over and over again in a pretty comical way (no dismemberment, every fight is more or less the same, you have practically zero wiggle-room or alternative ways of disposing your foes)? The leveldesign is interesting at times, but then other times its extremely bad. Empty rooms with nothing to do, misplaced use-triggers, huge ruins to explore with lifeless backtracking or missing checkpoints. To add insult to injury many keys can't get rebind (!) and the whole layout is for controllers by default!
The best game i ever played the bosses are all so good and the magics are so good the all stuff is so much fun
This game deserves it's 10 more than any other. An amazing masterpiece of game design with a ton of playability. It took me 150 hrs to beat the game the first time and I enjoyed them all. It was a real adventure and my first time playing a Souls game to completion. It's challenging but in a wonderful way that really rewards you for figuring things out. Only weak point was the Quests which often had me going on Wiki to figure out where the hell someone was hiding lol. But, that's also because I did not sit and read the item lore/descriptions (if you want to know the lore, I recommend it). 10/10, best game ever made imo. Trend setter that shames all big budget companies not making things to this level.
Hands down GOTY, probably top10 games released in the last 10 years. Also the game is a little hard.
My first Dark Souls game. Best open world game I’ve ever played. Better than BOTW in many ways.
the game is pure art and joy to play with challenging and awarding combat, big open world that isnt boring and you are maidenless
The game is very good, I just wish they paid more attention to the PC version. For exemple The Witcher 3 a game from 7 years ago has much better graphics and twice the performance.
PC KBM Janky - you have to come up with your own keybinds because the stock ones require two hands and a mouse. Frame lags in a timing game. How's that supposed to work? 10 year old graphics and 20 year old interface intended for a console. Copy and paste bosses. Am I fighting Astel Naturalborn of the Void or Astel Stars of Darkess? Mohg the Omen or Mohg the blood lord? Margit or Morgott? Godrick the Grafted or Godefoy the Grafted? Which Dragonkin Soldier is this? In the end you just don't care. Exploration? Open world? Eff that. You'll lose your progress if you don't play it extremely safe, because there's ambushes everywhere. Putting the player at a marked disadvantage doesn't make the game harder or more challenging, just more annoying. In the end it's just another unload on the boss and go on your way game. Muscle memory wins, not brains.
It was my first real go at a souls game, tried the older ones but got around them too late and they felt a bit aged to me. Honestly one of the best gaming experiences I've had, I was always pulled to the easier way to do things and being "forced" to play the way it's intended really made it that much better for me.
No, Elden Ring is NOT a masterpiece, it is "just" ok. Basically it's Dark Souls 3.5 with the only real "improvement" being an open world. What I like about the open world is that there are no quest markers, no Question Marks, no icon overkill on the map. Elden Ring still retains all the annoying souls mechanics, like resting at (insert souls resting point) restores enemies, getting killed drops (insert souls currency) with you getting one shot at retaining them and of course the ridiculous difficulty that manages to exclude a huge amount of gamers. It also is guilty of reusing assets and animations (graphics have not really been upgraded from DS3, sound effects remain 100% identical). Worst offender however are the controls: after all these games FromSoft is either incompetent or unwilling to make functioning keyboard & mouse controls. If you release a game on PC then you have no excuse whatsoever to make it unplayable on mouse & keyboard.
Game to easy. Game to easy. Game to easy. Game to easy. Game to easy. Game to easy. Game to easy.
Genuinely one of the best games i have ever played. I recommend it for it everyone.
First things first it's 2020 and i still have to use the Flawless Wide Screen to get ultrawide support which could lead to a ban because of anti-cheat won't allow any third-party fixes. the second thing the stuttering is unbelievable it's supposed to be a game that need precise movement but when it stops for a second or two, you're dead. third thing the performance are so bad in some area's that led to frame drops and it's not because of my specs i have 2070 super and tried to lower all the graphic setting but it's still the same. the fourth thing keyboard layout why the hell they didn't implant that in the game before releasing it it's confusing as hell to see press Y every damn time. lastly bugs the game has its fair share of bugs like enemy's can hit you while you're behind a wall, the AI of your summons sometimes act dumb, you can get stuck under some large enemy, the high which can you jump from isn't the same in the open world and the dungeon's, lastly good luck trying to hit an animal without the lock on mechanics. the game isn't bad it's enjoyable when it's playable but not at this time wait for them to release bug and performance issue then go for it otherwise, you're stuck playing it in a **** state.
Elden Ring is without question the best game using the Dark Souls formula. After a pretty shaky PC launch, the issues were resolved within a week and I had some of the most fun in my life playing this game for hours at a time. High points include the graphics, scale, formulaic story, and challenge, and low points include high system requirements, somewhat confusing open-world objectives, and brutal difficulty for newcomers.
The best game I've ever played. FromSoft really outdid themselves. The story is amazing and while there are valid critiques of the game, from it's poor handling of NPC questlines to the buggy pc launch. But honestly, it wouldn't really be a FromSoft game without requiring you to scour the internet for how to find an NPC. This is very much a biased opinion and I know that, but I can't help myself. The art direction is something I absolutely fell in love with, the NPC's while hard to find, were worth finding in my opinion, if only too see this gorgeous world through them. Exploration has been my favorite thing since this game's launch and finding the many many *many* secret areas in the game has been a blast. The combat is amazing, fighting and overcoming a hard enemy or boss was just *muah* chef's kiss. I'd recommend this game to everyone an absolute mastapiece
one of the best games i have ever played i couldn't resist playing other souls and it was a really good experience not for everyone but it was a great experience
Without talking about the amazing story... essentially the main problem is that when you start this game for the first time, even as a long term veteran souls player, you are bad, very bad. After 5 hours you understand that this isn't Dark Souls 3 and you start enjoying it.
Definitely one of the best games I’ve played. A lot of time has obviously been invested into giving the game world a dark feel with lots and lots of small bits of information that when puzzled together tells a lot about the lore. And the fist game I’ve played using a controller and being confident about it.
gameplay 10/10 online 8/10 crash..... 10/10 it has a lot of things to improve but it is still one of the best games that came out this year.
ok, a lot of people here seem **** for not appreciating a good game, it is true that it is not the best game in history or something like that but it is a very excellent game. I play on xbox but I have also tried it on PC and although it gives lag at certain times it is very playable, the fact that many people say that many reusable things from the previous dark souls are used is because all the original ideas of Elden ring were from dark souls 2 and some from 3, since they couldn't be implemented there, they ended up putting it in Elden ring, but that's good, they don't know how happy I felt when I went through the hanging chains on the mountain of the giants reminding me of the DS2 chains of the mountain of dragons that I do not remember its name, it is a game that recycles a lot but that is good and does not ruin the experience, what if it is just the damage that the special enemies do in the final part of the game, they do too much and not even the heaviest armor protects you as they should, but it's a game with the best soundtrack I've heard just being passed through DS1 and majula from DS2, the fights are also original and good, those of the gargoyles that many You could complain, they were perfect for me and one of the best in the game and to finish... Maliker peels me off
Easly one of the best game ever with an endless open world with tons of exploration. You can play finish this game 5 times and in the sixth time you find new bosses and places. Only problem in this game is some performance issues and camera problems in big bosses.
Elden Ring is the game of the year for me. Its incredible masterpiece. Crown of the souls games. I want more games like this or just dlcs. I recommend everyone who wanna meet a souls game, but didnt do yet and for sure must play for any souls fan.
The world is boring, magic is boring, and all the factors that add artificial difficulty get old real quick, such as the enemies reading your inputs so they know your actions before you even take them. Not to mention the fact that the game tells you very little about its mechanics (like how spells scale and the damage of spells) or the quests (why is there not a real quest tracker). This would be acceptable for an SNES game, but we're far past that point. There are plenty of bugs, too; I have issues locking on vs certain enemies routinely. And last but certainly not least: the UI loves to get in your way. Oh sure don't tell me anything about how damage is calculated or what a spell actually does, but go ahead and lock me out of reacting in combat with a prompt that takes up a quarter of the screen and prevents me from making any meaningful actions in the middle of combat. Don't waste your time unless you enjoy getting tortured by mediocrity and artificial difficulty.
It's just a perfect game, the plot, gameplay, and everything I can't play any other games right now cuz u know how a perfect game can Change your mind
It's basically Dark Souls 4, with slightly above average open-world mechanics. I enjoy it but would say that there is some obvious recycling from previous titles and even within the game itself. A smaller, more consciously designed world might have been better. Also, the PC release is just unapologetically bad in terms of bugs and performance. UPDATE: I finished the game and most of the bugs have been ironed out since then. My opinions on the world size and recycling of ideas definitely still stand though. It's a bit sad as From Software clearly put a lot of work into the game, but they bit off more than they can chew.
Very few games have left a lasting impression on me as Elden Ring has. The sheer size and scope of what is on offer here plus the incredible visual/audio design makes this an epic adventure that I will never forget. While it is not quite perfect,for me it's close enough.
My first time to the soul genre game. Story, design, and the volume are amazing to enjoy. But I still hate that the game was not intuitive and very hard to get through. I still feel like the game is made for those soul genre fanboys.
Biggest scam in gaming history. Outdated game in a shiny wrap. You must never trust not only critics, but even real players who leaves a reviews. I'm truly amazed by society: literally game from 2016-18 with nothing new and yet another terrible PC port is now considered as worlds masterpiece. I guess everyone got exited because of "open world", but there is a surprise - it is not an open world at all. I keep saying - if you want truly open world - go play some Elder Scrolls games. Game is boring, abnormally long and everything is essentially the same. The only thing i liked is music and boss design. That is all. From such big game. Incredible. Bosses and enemies are the same - unfair cringe with up to NINE combo attacks with almost no window for your hit! Im a dark souls veteran and im truly amazed how strong those foes are! 9-hits combo, 0.5 seconds delay, jump and another combo attack, repeat. I wonder how it is explained in lore. Okay i wont go into details that much, there is plethora of very good "red" and "yellow" reviews with explanation. Please, do not be blinded.
Its the only one big open world game that has over 100 hrs, that i play second time, and it feels almost as amazing as first playtrouth, and im sure that it wont be the last, there are so many builds, so many items ,spells, ways to play. Everithing u find and explore is important, the difficulty is a bit easier that previus from soft games, but for this scale its perfect ,so to it not to be a drag. The story is great, there are tons uf interesting and suprising lore. graphics are beutiful , textures are a bit outdated but the landscapes are jaw dropping. The only small comlane is the are some copy paste bosses, but i understand that it would be probably too hard to make 165 different bosses, but no matter thei still have a lot more different bosses ,than alot of other games. It is the best Action Rpg open world game ever period. Thank u From Software
Really boring game. Slow, very repetitive. Too dificult, so you have to restart every boss 10-15 times until you beat him. A pity. Only for hardcoregames that don't search for a good history, only hack & slash.
Yeah, Miyazaki and From starting to eats their own tail. I mean it's still a great game, but stylistics it's just another dark fantasy, with fallen kings, heroes and that stuff we saw million timies in other Souls games, and the gameplay is really nothing new or fresh in this formula. Bringing open world to dusty mechanics doesn't make a new game guys. It is shame, because Sekrio shows that this team have fresh ideas to improve gameplay. But this is just one big step backwards.
By far the worst souls game ever made, the open world is extremely boring and full of copy+paste content. There is no fun way to traverse the open world. Boss fights are low quality and again a lot of them are copy+paste, I am talking about big story bosses that get shamelessly reused! It shows that FromSoftware didn't have enough time to develop this game properly. The boring empty open world is filled with wannabe pokemon summons called spirit ashe summons, you like collecting pokemons in your souls games? I don't. There is no meaningful reward, the game is too big for its own good, next time provide less quantity and more QUALITY, like previous souls games.
One of the best gaming Experiences i`ve ever had. Thank you From Software for this masterpiece!
For me I've using a Ryzen 3700x and Radeon RX 570 8gb nitro+ version. I've using it in medium. I've faced some stuttering and it's tolerable. Average fps for me is 49 - 52. I'm happy with the experience. There isn't a single place in the open world that didn't peaked my interest. Best 200 hours spent on a video game and still more to come.
My life saved by this game. Best project by far. I love it so much. I.. I.. don't have any words to explain how i like this game. You need to be a dog to not try this piece of haven by youre self
Storytelling, mechanics, animations, most bosses, goat keeper - are the same. Site of Grace = Bonfire, which means: > Reset all killed mobs in the area, AGAIN. > Spells can only be changed here. AGAIN. World Seems big, right. But most of the places are closed, and you'll spend time on finding a glintstone key as an example. But the dungeons are hilariously just ctrl+c/+v. Dungeon #1 A basement Dungeon, or Erwin Smith Dungeon. Just a hole in the ground, so basically: Location>Location>Chest/Trap. And the locations are the same. A long trap that goes down, a room with 4 corners, enemies, a little room further with chest or trap. Done. Another one: in the mountain Open the door>Go down>Site of Grace>Go further>You see a closed door>You search everywhere a lever arm>Activate it>"somewhere a heavy door has opened". So you basically go back to that door in the beginning and fight a silly boss. Optimization and Community Even on my PC (5900X, 32GB, M.2 980 PRO, 3090) the game stutters. Sometimes it even freezes in dungeons. Why did I put "optimization" and "community" together? First off, I am not the only one with this problem, but the whole community will convince you that you are the problem, you are the only one to blame here, not the developers, when in reality there are Digital Foundry, critics, players, Steam (who kinda "fixed it on Steam Deck") that confirm the bad optimization. The community is the worst, toxic and blind. They regard any criticism as a personal insult to them. Not made for PC They didn't make a good port for the best gaming platform? There is NO DLSS, NO widescreen, NO FPS unlock. Graphics settings only affect FPS, you can barely notice the image. When you plug in your controller (XBOX) you have to change the interface, when EVEN Transformers (2009 game) did it automatically, while it's a piece of sh... 30 FPS console experience, Elden Ring just can't handle this one. Imagine if Transformers (2009) did something simple that Elden Ring (2022) can't. You can't move the map with your mouse cursor, while Skyrim and Witcher 3 do well. Multiplayer For the multiplayer you need: > Right place where your friend can be summoned. > You must have the Furcalling Finger Remedy, which you can actually buy, but the stock is limited. > But you can make it, grind specified flowers. So you are connected? All right, now you two have: > 50% less flasks > Less HP depends on your friend's HP > +100% difficulty for your enemies > you can't use a goat > you can't use the spirits > you can't change the spells > you are constantly attacked by other players. User Support For example, if you have a problem, someone has hacked you, and you can't continue with your saves, the support will give a cap advice: start a new game. Even Genshin support gives you more help. Total I complain about the +100% boss boost in multiplayer because it gets boring. You need to attack him 2-3 times more often than usual. But solo okay. The only aspect I really like about this game is the location design, the architecture is HUGE. So for the newbies who have never played soulsborne, the game is 6/10 (-4 just for the bad optimization. It doesn't matter if the game doesn't run well.) For me, definitely 4/10 because it's Dark Souls 4. If you ever thought Fallout was just Skyrim with guns or Starfield was just Fallout in space, then remember that there are still soulsborne fans out there who laughs at Bethesda games for being "mediocre", while literally eating a copy-paste game, lol.
Can't say much about this game that hasnt already been said; It isnt my type of game, personally, so I just didnt enjoy it. Played through the first hour, felt like I did nothing but die a few times. If you like soulsbourne games you will like this, if you dont, you wont like this. Its that simple
Worst game ever made (Absolute no balance, awful perfomance) black puddle on FromSoftware's pure reputation
Basically the best Game ever made (in my mind) If you like dark souls you'll love it. If not, you'll love it too
Overrated piece of Darksouls **** Same bosses, same animationts, same sounds and new fullprice. Stop sponsoring Hidetaka.
From Software at its finest: this game blends every FS title from Demon's Souls to Sekiro and become something completely new, fresh and original. A game that sets the new **** for open world titles from now on expecially in the exploration and level design. It has some problems and poor choices, but overall is an overwhelming experience that keeps you going for hundreds of hours, literally
Buy a decent PC and stop whining about your 5 year old bucket cant play ER. Giving a game like ER 0 just shows how big a moron you are. The game is the perfect evolution from Souls-borne and Sekiro and manage to create a true open world experience while maintaining almost the same difficulty (yes, DS fan-boys disagrees) and allowing "new comers" to use spirits for the hard boss-fights. The quests and the complexity in the game is as usual top notch and obscure and I love it. It is easily a 10/10 game. It is a masterpiece and you will only find out if you put the time and effort into it :)
**** game, previous dark souls games and bloodborne were much better lots of brainless casual players and dumb boring bosses maybe Malenia is the hardest boss, but also IT'S THE WORST BOSS EVER
1/10 just cuz i respect FromSoft.Strayed too far from original souls games,bland and easy.Heavily crippled World of Warcraft with poor optimizations.Gimme four devs,two graphic designers and coffee guy i would do better in two months.
Before the GOW5 I would give this game GOTY 2022, cause it was an amazing experience for gaming community, considering this is still one of the most selling games 5 months after its release. It has good skill-based gameplay, some really amusing and imaginative locations and bosses, yet it lacks narrative and story, which made me take a break in my playthrough for a while. The balancing at this game is really something which should have been taken more seriously, because some bosses are just not fun at all for their stupidly high difficulty. And you also can't ignore numerous bugs and glitches which may be annoying at some times. The open world for this game is something which is working not that well, however it has something for you to explore. Considering Ubisoft-like open-world games, Elden Ring makes you feel like you are actually discovering something new, which you are not forced to explore. Nevertheless, it is still the best game of 2022 for me and it deserves this hype and attention
i love this game its just sit into my heart with this music characters and atmosphere
Overrated Video Game Of All Time, i hate toxic fans of this game ---------------
Why only 7/10 you shall ask? This game have some disadvantages that pissed me off a lot of times while playing I don't like multiplayer from from software games A lot of connection errors even on bossfights, signs doesn't shows up properly. Secondly, poor game optimalization. Really? On rtx 2060 I gained same fps on low and high settings
While there are legitimate issues with the performance of the pc version, I think this is a very solid game with plenty of content and interesting lore and world building to explore, not to mention memorable boss fights.
I tried dark souls back in the day and it wasn't really my type of game. With how few good games have come out lately I felt like maybe this franchise deserves a second chance. After my taste has changed over the past 20 years as well. Sadly it left me disappointed again. The controls are clunky, the graphics mediocre, the story telling isn't very good (yes I get it, it has deep lore but if you fanboys calm down for a sec and think about it, the delivery of that story isn't very good). Especially for a game in this day and age. It would have been fine in the 90's but now it's simply not. The gameplay aside from the cluncky controls is just learning the pattern of enemies and once you do it becomes quite do-able. Sure it is a challenge sometimes to learn the pattern of bosses and their various forms but in my opinion the story isn't good enough, and the rewards for killing a boss aren't great enough to feel like it is worth all that effort. I pumped about 4 hours into the game and it simply felt like a waste of time. My job is more rewarding on its bad days than this game and without any reason to do it I just dropped the game. Then the performance. The game was a stuttery mess from time to time on my pc which granted isn't the best but my old i7-7700k, RTX 2070 super and 3200 MHz DDR4 should be more than enough. Sadly the performance on 1440p simply wasn't there. Is my review harsh, sure but for a game series with some ch high renown it simply doesn't even meet the bare minimum requirements. Hell cyberpunk at launch felt better to me because at least it had good gameplay, story and graphics.
An open world game that is based on repeating bosses and also becomes tedious to investigate should never be a GOTY. It is entertaining? Yes. Is it one of the best FS games? No, definitely.
Absolutely amazing. A true gem ****. Never played a souls game before without rage quitting and never coming back. This drew me in and **** hundreds of hours from me. Phenomenal experience all around.
The first platinum on the PC, brought a lot of pleasure. Too many boss replays and mechanics from past games.
Except for some annoying features, this game is a mindblowing journey that kept me addicted for 150 straight hours. Froms collected all their lore and gameplay specifics in this one huge piece of art, but I think this time they didn't beat Dark Souls 1 in atmosphere and story, neither the did beat Sekiro in gameplay sharpness and fluidity. P.S. Thanks Let me solo her dude, it was fun to sit there and see you dancing with the red head butterfly.
Easily one of the best games in 2022. Plenty of builds and skills to try, challenging yet still enjoyable.
One of the best games of all time. Except for technical problems. It looks like the DS game engine couldn't handle the open world.
Game is terrible in pc. With Ryzen 5 5600H and RX 5500M, in low settings i got 50-60fps. I experienced fps drops in bosses and crowded enemy groups. Some lightning effects disappears and looks fancy. Trees and grasses disappears and appears again. If you call the horse when you next to a tree, you just hang on the tree and die. There is a bug that makes all enemies invisible. Effects really ruins my pc's performance. Controls and phyics are still playstation 3 quality. Not a single change since old ds games. Didn't get a thing from story and people who made this game is lazy af. Just try to listening to community at once.
masterpiece i love this game is really good game i like too much, ajsjasfafa
This game is everything fans loved about the series but brought to the open world. The combat feels as good as ever, with quick responses to your inputs and nice flow and feeling of weight overall. With a variety of classes to choose from, and playstyles that suit every player this game can be as easy or as hard as you want it to be. From summons to spirit NPC ashes, you can choose whether to fight solo or with an ally. There is one bossfight where I definitely recommend using summons and that's the Godskin Duo. Now on the story side of ****'S MINDBLOWNLINGLY EPIC! Overall it makes you feel like you're rising up to the top becoming stronger and stronger, culminating in an epic final showdown. On the negatives now...Some classes and builds are way better than others, making fights hilariously easy but again that's up to the player. I didn't involve myself in the PVP so no comments on that. A lot of assets are re-used but I kind of expected that in a game as massive as this. Lastly, a lot of the bosses in the late game are really hard, not allowing the player with a window of opportunity for a counter attack and with endgame damage stats, the fights become really hard and are a matter of patience. But overall I don't have anything major to say in regard to the bad aspects of the game. TLDR: Yes the game is amazing, with epic fights, a larger scale to its story and with really tough endgame bosses! PS: The music in certain bossfights just gives me chills(Mohg, Lord of Blood cough cough)
Now that the casuals have got bored of angrily hammering in 1/10 reviews because they died a few times rather than achieving instant gratification, hopefully the reviews will become a little more representative.
Amazing game if you like souls games then you have to try this it’s my GOTY
I had toyed with the idea of scoring this low to counteract the utterly exaggerated 10 out of 10 scores, but in the end I scored it as I feel is fair. FIrst of all the combat against most enemies is fun and challenging. You do get a sense that you are improving as you level up and begin to take on those knights and other creatures easier. Unfortunately the world itself is large but has no feel of life to it. Maybe that is the design direction the devs wanted to take but the entire place feels lifeless with no sense of meaning to it. Where the problems start arise is the lack of variety. Kill enemies, die lots, confront boss, die lots, kill boss, move to next level and start again. Each time you move to a new area you feel woefully underpowered again and it feels cheap and makes the entire exprience a grind. The lack of interaction also impacts gameplay negatively and makes for a very shallow experience. There is almost nothing to do but kill enemies and beat bosses and the only intercations are minor and trivial and delivered in a characterless and underwhelming way. What is really bad though, are the main boss fights. They feel hard because the enemy cheat or react to your key/button presses and they rarely run out of stamina. So you get destroyed over and over and over again until you figure out how to cheese them. Or you finally figure out the weapon and or character class you had been levelling up is worhtless against them. Melania or Radagon is a perfect example. My Mage build at level 170 was getting destryoed as they could teleport across the room instantly dealing two or three shots that I could not counter and that killed me. It felt like I had wasted hundreds of hours building a character that was just for nothing. The only way I could beat both of them was to respec multiple times. I eventually found out that 45 Dex and 50 Arcane with Rivers of Blood at level 10 was the only way I could beat them. I beat both stages of Melania in less than two minutes doing the corpse piler skill. Despite doing exactly the same thing with the same build and weapon dozens of times before. It just feels the main boss fights are not down to skill, but random number generation. You could do the same thing dozens, scores or even hundreds of times and finally it just works. Overall a decent game, but nowhere near a 10 out of 10 because 10 out of 10 impies perfect and there are too many issues for that to be accurate.
I loved this game the whole way through. I'm a sort of fan of the Dark Souls games, but have never finished one before because I would get lost or lose interest. Elden Ring kept me engaged the whole time.
The game was medium quality at best. No significant changes were made to the graphics and the atmosphere was not intense enough. In-game music and boss fight music were good. The battle mechanics were the same as the previous games and did not fit the open world atmosphere. The story of the game was very empty, but I can't judge the developers on that, the only good game story in this game series was the story of Dark Souls 2. Exploring, finding materials and equipment is enjoyable and manageable until the first 20 hours of the game, but after that it starts to get boring and repetitive. This is a very bad thing because this type of games are where you play for 100-200 hours and starting to get bored early means you can't finish the game and get your money's worth. As for in-game performance, I didn't have any major fps drops or game crashes or bugs. the keyboard and mouse compatibility of the game is a complete disaster, a 0.5 second delay in such games will result in your death and in this game the delays oh my god. If you look at it in general, the attention to the marketing and hype budget does not seem to be devoted to the game, and the game looks and feels like an average AAA game.
It is one of the best games I've ever played great combat great bosses and great ****'t mind the noobs who can't kill bosses this game is so good.
Elden Ring is pure art.* *But it's not for everyone. From Soft tried to make it more friendly to the newcomer by increasing the frequency of bonfires, adding the ability to summon, and so on but as well as the whole Dark Souls series, Elden Ring still in some ways is a niche product. People who've never played DS and came from Skyrim and Assassin's Creed just because they've seen "A open world game" tag are highly likely to be disappointed that they didn't find what they were used to and not wanting what the game has to offer. So 6.9 user score is expected.
Extremely boring, hack and slash, with quite a bit of attention on combat mechanics. But I can't be bothered with the challenge. Die, farm lower level enemies , upgrade, die, castle, dungeon, big boss battle, die, dungeon, meaningless cinematic dialogue, die, uninstall. Cyberpunk is about 40 times more engaging than this. Performance was ok for me, after a few patches, but I have a 2080ti in the living room and a 3090 on my gaming rig. I didn't count the frames but there were no noticeable problems apart from the fact that the game is dreadful.
I wish Miyazaki very pleasantful meeting with a truck with a drunk truck driver, on a rainy night so the breaks won't work in time.
One of the best soulslike games I've ever played. Does not get bored even after the second pass. Separately, you can highlight a chic open world filled with different enemies and secrets, it is very interesting to explore it. There have never been any problems with killing bosses, there has always been enough level, the game has a well-thought-out balance and quality of game mechanics. The game is interesting and exciting in all aspects, I advise everyone!
Stunning graphics, voice over work is amazing. A game you'll likely play more than once.
My first Fromsoft Game. I heard all of stuff about their games being incredibly hard. And to be honest, I was overwhelmed at first, struggling to fight even basic enemies. However, little by little you begin to realize how many tools you have at your disposal. It isn't just about "getting good". Learning how to use those tools, through exploration and experience, are just as important. I eventually hit a point where I understood the game, and suddenly I felt like I understood the entire appeal of this franchise. Only downside; exploration gets a little boring towards the end of the game, especially when you already have all the gear you really need. Overall though, excellent.
a classic fromsoftware game you will love it or you will hate **** me the game is a masterpieace but with poor optimization. the game runs awfull considering the specs i have (amd ryzen 5800x and a rtx 2080 super) other than that if you are playing on a conlose i think is a better experience for sure. lets hope so for further update fix the optimization problems..
Elden Ring has been my first FromSoftware game. At first I was overwhelmed by the massive open world and for the first 2-3 days I was just running around, leveling up and did not know exactly what to do and where to do it. But after a while i grew more and more into it and yes, since i am a trophy hunter, I checked some locations online here and there but it is just an amazing feeling to defeat a difficult boss fight. (Melania... boy oh boy! :) ) A very suprising thing and probably a good sign of enjoyment is that usually I uninstall games as soon as the platinum trophy pops up. But Elden Ring is just the third game after God of War and Witcher 3 where i said: I'm wanna play that game again soon even though there is nothing left to achieve anymore. The game is really fun and still challenging. If you do not like a difficult challenge in your video games, this game is probably just not for you.
This is how little you can trust online reviews: Publications who get paid by these game companies to gush over these games ranked it a 94. Users give it a 6.9 (probably a much more accurate evaluation). I stopped reading game reviews years ago because of this. Another example: WOW Shadowlands grabbed an 84. That game was a literal waltz into hell. It's one of the worst "big name games" I've ever played. Users correctly panned it at a 3.0, a much more accurate portrait. The internet is corporate. When you read online gaming publication reviews for something like Elden Ring, you're basically reading what the makers of Elden Ring thought of Elden Ring. Even some of the user reviews were paid, and you can tell this is so. So here is a real review: The graphics on this game are beautiful. The music is beautiful. You'll have some fantastic moments. Overall, though, the Gameplay is wooden, and it's a World of Warcraft fever dream where someone imagined what a 2022 Warcraft would look like. Some of the backgrounds are "2006 WOW scene re-imagined in 2022." This doesn't make it a bad game. Lots of people will like this. And just as many people will flip it off and not be able to finish it because it's a flashback. And some people get bored with those. If you want to read accurate reviews of any game, ignore 0. Ignore 10. And read every review listing it as something in-between. Some of the most classic games in history aren't a 10. And even some of the worst games in history still have some value to them, ranking above a 0. Just keep the golden rule in mind: Zeros are competitors. Tens are paid reviewers. - Sincerely, someone who gets offers for positive or negative reviews all the time and never, ever takes companies up on their offers
Absolutely stunning game. First game of FromSoftware that I played and opened doors for other titles. GOTY
Another horribly optimized game on PC port. It's been 4 months since release. Still not fixed. Not worth buying.
In my opinion, the best game of 2022. They have combined the structure of other souls games into one game perfectly. Although it is a long-term game, I played it with pleasure without getting bored for a second. Give this game a chance without being fooled by other reviews. A complete masterpiece.
Terrible PC port lack of native ultrawide support, coop is very unstable, performance issues, online issues, balance issues, 60 fps cap in 2022, button prompts altho you can set them manually it should really detect when you pressing buttons on mouse keyboard to also give button prompts for mouse and keyboard and switch automaticly to mouse and keyboard prompts. Things that annoy me the most tho is the lack of native ultrawide support and 60 fps lock, normally in a single player game this is not much of a problem but with Easy Anti Cheat added in a singleplayer game you are now locked out to only play offline, you may not see the issue here but if you consider that Dark Souls remastered has better ultrawide support right now then Elden Ring then this is a big issue, not to mention its 2022 why do we still have no native ultrawide support or unlocked framerate, the game plays fine with fixes in offline, but due Easy Anti Cheat im forced to play offline or seemless coop mod that has a worse coop experience then original vanilla, not only that it more and more feels like my feedback is ignored, we are now on patch 1.05 and all the issues still exist, not cool From Software perhaps you should let another one handle the PC port and stick on just making the game, while letting some one profesional handle PC ports, Dark Souls remastered has better ultrawide support oke not perfect, but least it has no black bars.
After 100 hours of playing, I can say this game was a different experience for me. Exploring the vast map and slaying monsters was so fun for me, yes there were some hard things but overall once you figure out the game and its idea it becomes fun. The most challenging point for me was the bosses. The cutscenes were fantastic and after that, you're facing the boss, figuring out its moves and patterns. After memorizing patterns, it's time to take action and take down the boss. With lore, gameplay and progress were awesome. 10/10.
Elden Ring O' Elden Ring, undeniably the most fine tuned and well thought out project that FromSoftware has ever released. After spending nearly 200 hours in this game I can say with confidence that it is some of the most challenging fun I have ever had with a video game. It took my breathe away from start to finish with its landscape, well thought out characters, deep and interesting lore, and most importantly insanely brutal boss encounters. Of course I have some issues with the game however, the biggest one being that I feel it pushes you to play specific builds as the most powerful items in the game favour single playstyles but if your willing to go without the OP weapons and spells and trudge through insanely fast and strong boss combos all the while spam rolling and using your final bit of stamina to swing your giant hammer for that FINAL HIT! then you shall be rewarded with some of the most satisfying feelings of accomplishment you can receive from any video game. if you are interested in Elden Ring you owe it to yourself to persevere and explore, don't quit after 4 or even 10 hours in because to truly appreciate this masterpiece you must first allow it time to show you all it has to offer. To me the cons the game has are so easily trumped by all the good and this game remains IMO a 10/10.
Don't be fooled by who calls Elden Ring a masterpiece. At its best it's competent and it isn't even constant at being so. The game mechanically is literally DS3, no less and no more. Clunkiness included. Speaking of world design, even if it is capable of giving some good landscape to the eye ends up being much better at boring you: too much space for too little content. Is the carnival of recycle and scarcity: recycled enemies, 70% of the time exploration gives you at best consumables, the "dungeons" are literally the same modular 2 type of structures repeated over and over (and let's not even start with the repeated bosses). So called "legacy dungeons" are too short and seem half baked. Don't be fooled by the mere numbers: the problem is not how much fat there's in Elden Ring but how much more should have been there to keep meaningful a journey so stretched in terms of time of completion and map space. Balance is non existent. Extend this to everything you can think of: from bosses to player's weapons and spells passing trough also one hit kill random mobs. It is CLEARLY not player tested and half of the interactions end up being tedious for being or unreasonably hard or unreasonably trivial. The lore is there. If only the game was compelling to play for sure I'd tell how much I appreciate it. But some nice ideas can't patch something that bores you to death before getting to them. What makes up a "souls" experience is uniqueness: Elden ring for sure has a serious lack of it. Some things are cool, sure, but most the time it isn't worth it to go trough it. A lot of empty or palliative spaces, not enough variety just kill the journey. You'll soon wish the game to end before the game has the humbleness on cutting short with itself. (Not gonna start with the stuttering, we all know is there)
Elden Ring is a good game that has some technical flaws here and there. I love the sense of discovery and the combat.
I'm not a huge fan of souls-like games, but this one was extraordinary. If you like role playing games, you owe it to yourself to try this one.
First thing i said when i played Elden Ring for the first time was "BIG", its one of the biggest games i have played in my life, even bigger then Red Dead Redemption2 and its perfect, its pure fan service in terms of maps, enemies, and everything else.
one of the best game i have played. Period. So much to explore and challenging boss encounters.
A beautiful world to explore. Authentic storytelling. A huge number of activities. One of the best games.
Stunning and amazing game i hope it will take the game of the year it's really deserve and worth it
Despite the effort to make it unplayable for pc, From software still managed to make a great game, where a good part of the Dark Souls saga spirit gets into an open world, even though doesn't have the same magic. I've been playing for 110 hours and explored almost each and every secret. The experience is huge and epic. I am a bit disappointed by the final bosses and the endings: they are poorly written, there is also some boring repetition of the content. The Witcher and Skyrim remain unmatched.
Still a great game but with a lot of ctrl c+ctrl v bosses. With a lot of bad mechanics and useless open world
incredible game with decent re-playability, excellent game mechanics and hit-boxes. The feeling of finally beating a boss is incredibly rewarding
One of the most boring, overrated, overhyped and meaningless video game i have ever forced myself to play. They took dark souls idea and made it open world. Literally whole game is like that. Boss after boss. Pointlessly difficult combat, hardly any reward or story progression, because there is hardly any story to care about. Quests you do are meaningless and you forget about by the end, because there is no quest log. Awful game, overhyped by people who hate Ubisoft and think that now, Ubisoft should start making games with Souls combat, or some nonsense. Ironically these people never even cared for Ubisoft games. Ubisoft has obviously gone downhill in recent years and who knows, if they even make a comeback, but at least Ubisoft has solid selection of great games they have made in past and Valhalla was decent as well, nothing special, but still better game overall than Elden Ring or Cyberpunk 2077.
This game is sooooooooo underrated, IT MUST BE HIGHER. Here my pros and cons: Pros: - Fun game with great mechanics - Keeps you entertained for hours on end - Lore is big and good - Good story - Easy to learn, Hard to master Cons: - Frames, the frames in this game are pretty crappy, even on good computers like mine! I run fortnite at 144 fps but I can barely run elden ring at 50.
Masterpiece. Had lots of fun with it and I still have. It has a lot of ways to make the difficulty harder or easier so you can play it, even if you never played a Souls game before.
Dark souls with a hourse and jump buttom, same combat, same cheap game design. But there is empty open world which is basicaly a huge landscape with nothing. there is no plot like in previous From software games deep meaning of what is going on in the game exists only on internet forums and fandom . Games terrible UI and clunky unresponsible controlls make it frustrating, playing 6th installment of dark souls not giving me that much joy overcoming the same game design ideas that i overcome 5 games earlyer. On top of this game runs like crap on pc (rtx 2070/r73800x) with frame rate dipping below 60 no matter ettings i used. I believe critics if you can say so are really biased and the big name of Miyadzaki sold them this game and thats not right you need to be objective as a journalist you need to tell people the truth about the product that they are buing.
I was just wasting my time. By the end of the game it was so boring that I ran past the loot. Boss fight are the apogee of stupidity. You fight with the heel or the boss jumps all over the arena or the boss 2. as a result, the disappointment of the year.
Redefining the mainstream open world designs and merging it with the souls formula maintaining his essence
its not bad game with no quest guide but why enemies spamming attack ? i feel like they are playing they have to enjoy the game not me. better next game they let players enjoy the game. its so cringe because literally they are spamming and its annoying too much
This is KING of all souls like games, i play all of souls and souls like egames this is the true king.
Despite what people say this game is not a masterpiece it is really good but has issues
Elden Ring is a game so good, it makes other games bad just by existing. Yes, I had my share of issues on the PC but I was more than willing to put up with them in order to keep playing this game. I was enjoying it so much, I just powered through the frame rate stuttering and kept playing.
Top 3 open world games of all time. My first souls-like game and i must say: "This game is master peace and super addictive" Only hate couple things - map UI (hard to spot your own marks and places you clear should be marked as "done sign" ); items and skills quick access management also ****. Wheel ui would be much better imo. No compare window then you buy armor or weapons
It's the only game I played that has actually meaningful, not copypasted, open-world where you can find interesting things to do. Yes, the game isn't without flaws, but they are irrelevant when you see how much passion was put into the design of the world.
The open world is amazing, there is so much detail to this game. But I can’t really call Elden Ring a game, because games are fun. Elden Ring is not fun. Its very simple why it is terrible. Elden Ring punishes you in more ways than just charging you $70, by giving you re-used Bosses, lots of dead ends, terrible game logic, zero fun, and a broken controller. Its mainly the terrible boss design, I get killed at full health in two hits while taking 30 minutes to recover from the last attack! And to just arrive at the boss fight, you have to deal with a plethora of nuisances that deal unreasonable amounts of damage. And by late game, you can only really level up your character and weapons by killing the bosses that kill you in less that 10 seconds. What really aggravated me and lots of other Elden Ring players was the Godskin Duo, the most annoying boss in the entire game. They are near impossible to fight without dying immediately. I know Elden Ring has one of the largest and most detailed maps, good graphics, and is a great challenge, but it all comes down to how much fun and joy you can have. There is no fun and joy in this. Zero. It is mentally draining to play. You should only buy Elden Ring if you have an absurd amount of time on your hands and if you hate yourself.
Let's hope more AAA games will try to be like this a perfect completes game on release with no glitches perfect story perfect gameplay !
10/10 Game of The Year. This is What you should Get in a Video Game with a 60$ price Tag. Massive Open World Countless Boss Fights Multiple Different Playstyles & Classes Great Story & Lore Great Replay-ability Great Sense of Achievement when you Play & Defeat Bosses that give you Trouble. [Long Live From Software]
What a masterpiece. It's been a long time since I've played such a beautiful game.
First, the positives: You will definitely be astounded by the open world. Anywhere you can see, you can go. The art direction is brilliant, the graphics themselves being just fine. (I've never focused on them that much though) The music itself is pretty good, too. If you like normal souls combat, you'll probably like some parts of the combat as well. Now, the negatives are a lot more apparent in this game, overshadowing the positives in basically every way. First and foremost, the performance is awful. Most people can't run this game. I can run it okay on Manjaro Linux with Proton with 30-40 fps most of the time, but my friend, who's rig is much more powerful, can't even get out of the first area before the game crashes or freezes. The anticheat is awful too, not only does it spy on you like every other anticheat out there. It's just a given at this point. It slows your game down even more. I got sick of it and tried disabling it, which made my game run at a smooth 60 fps. (which is also the highest in this engine for some reason, even though we're already in 2022 with 144hz monitors) The open world, being so large, gives you the illusion of it being full of stuff to do, but sadly there's just not that much to get. You'll explore an area for around an hour or so, scouring every corner for anything interesting, just to get a spell or weapon that you can't use, or something that's just plain inferior to your existing set up. You'll think at first that there are a lot of items to pick up, but most of them are just useless crafting materials that can be farmed anyway. The "dungeons" are also awful. It's funny that even Bloodborne's chalice dungeons, which are disliked by many, put Elden Ring's dungeons to shame. The combat is just souls combat. It has all of your standard souls combat woes, like input buffering (queuing) and the camera and lock-on system. It's like Dark Souls 3 combat, but slower, while the enemies are faster. Your character is this clunky ass guy, while the bosses and even normal enemies just do 9 hit anime combos without any limit, since the enemies don't have stamina anymore. You'll just press dodge for the whole fight, hit the boss once, (which usually results in a miss, since the boss just jumps away if you use anything slower than a katana) and then keep pressing dodge again until the boss creates on opening for you, which, again, almost never happens, since they have infinite stamina now, can animation cancel every attack and stagger, combo combos into combos into combos into combos, etc.. Usually you just sit back and watch the boss do their version of Waterfowl Dance, while wishing you could do the same with their weapon, after you kill them and get it from the remembrance hag. Also everything does NG+2 damage so you die in two hits (one) even in heavy armor with 80 Vigor and an HP great rune. Why? WhyYyyYY?? The bosses are also all basically the same hypermobile stat checks. Every time you beat one you don't feel good, you just feel "wow, I'd rather cut my balls of with a hammer, than fight this thing again". Don't worry though, the world was so empty, FromSoft decided to reuse a bunch of the bosses, meaning you'll fight every boss at least thrice. (at worst 13 TIMES) Duo bosses also exist in this and most of the time it just feels like they we're randomly spat out by a generator, because they don't fit together at all. Oh and Godskin Duo they fit thematically, but their combat design is still ass. This game is a waste of time.
Elden Ring showed me how an open world can be renewed and make you shine for every dungeon or new location you encounter. Usually open world is repetitive and soon it gets easy because your character gets over power. Besides bringing all the hallmarks like difficulty and strategy, Elden gives you the opportunity to build your gameplay the way you prefer, in every way. It's worth every second/penny in this game.
Amazing game, world design is stunning, fights are challenging and the eldritch horrors this game offers are out of this world, the lore of the game is as deep as all previous From Software Games. In short a Masterpiece in Gaming
Not dark souls 2 level but close. Fromsoft went to far and didnt deliver. A game this big was a challange and the fail miserably. Something smaller and more conatined might have been better. Lots of reused content and i dont mean like once or twice i mean like 25-30% **** is reapeated. Difficulty is incredibly uneven, probably the hardest game in series without summons but with summons is by far the easiest.
The first thing you should pay attention to is how the game works technically. Many bloggers complained about extremely poor optimization and constant FPS drops, I played on a patched version and noticed such moments infrequently, well, literally 3 times in the whole game, the FPS is quite adequate at high graphics settings (more than 70 mostly) (RTX 2070 s), however, there is one thing in the game there is vertical synchronization, which cannot be removed physically at all)) Such a function is simply not available in the settings, and I had to download a mod that fixes this case, for the 2022 game, this is simply unacceptable,in my opinion. Cons of the game: The balance is dead, If you are under-pumped, you **** hard, if you are over-pumped, then your opponents ****, the map is divided in its complexity extremely strangely and even counterintuitively in places, there are no hints on the complexity of the regions and where to go next. The only chance to understand the complexity of the area is to personally experience it on your own skin, if they **** too much, then most likely you will have to come here a little later. But the main disadvantage of such a design is not even situations where you come to a certain region and they write out the rules for you there, but situations where you easily pass the plot boss for 1 try, due to the fact that you came to him too late (in my case, it was with Rennala). There are also just very strong builds and frankly weak builds, playing with a magician or through katanas on the bloodstream, you will make your life very much easier, yes, you can pump it, but the dominance of blood, frost and any magical stuff is too prevalent, and as a result we see that despite the huge variety of clothes, ashes, weapons, prayers, amulets, most play +- the same. The plot, as for me, it's not here at all)) There is some semblance of it, purely for show, in order to justify the gameplay itself. Quests are finally a separate topic, in order to fulfill them, you need to be superintelligent and think like Babazaki, no quest magazines for you, purely developing memory, kids, no question marks either , as a result, for the whole game I completed 2 quests, Rennie and someones else, the witch quest itself was interesting, but it was hard to pass without guides , like all the other quests, And imagine if there was a cool plot in this game and the quests are more intuitive, it would probably be 10 out of 10 game. Melancholy and despondency in the second half of the game. You spend the first ten hours in the game with pure buzz and excitement, then, when you already understand everything that is here and how it works, when you start meeting the same bosses in almost identical dungeons, when you are already tired of running around with the same blades half the game, you start to get bored... I was able to remove this boredom only by finding a new katana. I found a bunch of weapons and cool things for magicians there, strongmen, but not for my build))) Bosses: almost all the story bosses are cool, even the stuffy bastard Elden Beast, for whom I'm sick of running around the arena, optional bosses, with rare exceptions, are rather a waste of your time, the same type of **** knights, different crystal guys, divine skin guys, guardians of the tree, and the fact that they are constantly mixed/made double doesnt make it more fun. Crafting system: what for? I literally used it a couple of times Pros of the game: Art design, there are a lot of very beautiful and sticky locations in the game, the time of day also brings something special to the atmosphere, this is basically one of the most beautiful games that I've been through. As already mentioned earlier about bosses, for the most part they are still very cool, in any case, you will need to learn the moveset, some other features of the boss. The only thing of course, almost all the bosses in the game seem to be on some kind of speed, they are super aggressive, I don't even know how to survive here in heavy armor, so it's sometimes difficult to do without calling dust, which will take the boss on itself. Gameplay: a very skill-dependent game, which I, of course, like many, really like it. There are a lot of different options for how to split up this or that mob / boss, a lot of builds, etc.,
Average by the numbers dark souls like, not much new here besides the horse riding and the open world nature of the game which at times did make the whole experience a bit unfocused. Overall a decent game bogged down by poor performance and asset recycling that to my knowledge never got this egregiously transparent in any of the previous From software games
Honestly, I don't understand it. The souls games just don't appeal to me. This is probably the best one of the bunch, and yet, it did not do anything for me. Nice world design and atmosphere though.
Elden Ring isn't just a game, it's a work of art. It is certainly one of the best games ever created by mankind. I understand that it doesn't suit all players, but no game does. In its niche, Elden Ring is king. Challenging combat level, it is necessary to learn and master the controls, you can create your build as you see fit for your style of gameplay. As for exploration, you are rewarded every 40 seconds walking or riding around the map: hidden items, unique enemies, bosses, spells, materials... Your experience will be unique when playing this game, because the possibilities are endless. My wish and dream is for all ARPG games to use Elden Ring as the basis for their development. All in all, the best game I've ever played.
Great worldbuilding, great music and amazing boss design, but too easy in comparison to the DS-series. Do not play any soulsborne on mouse and keyboard.
There is one word that can describe this game in all the glory: “Masterpiece”
First soulslike i’ve played and First Game in a while, wich was worth being completed. Can‘t remember the Last Game That was as fun as Elden Ring. And very Important Point: It is a finished game. You don‘t buy ingame via microtransactions or dlc expansions. You buy the game – you get the game.
I am not good at it, but it has the feeling of a truly hand crafted master work.
Sure it has its issues but they are easily patched and nothing like others that are coming out recently. this was the first from software title that I have thoroughly enjoyed I don't see myself putting any less than 500 hours into this game It is a brilliant masterpiece and I'm looking forward to what's next from them.
Absolute masterpiece. The performance on PC has improved since launch, though it's not perfect yet. My only critique is the multiplayer feature. If you're expecting a good co-op experience, you'll be disappointed.
3 months after the launch and the game hasn't been properly patched. Not even close. That's just sad & disappointing. I'm will try to make it short and understandable: 1. The game is build on the same engine as DS3 which was released in 2016. Game should not run with glitches, frame drops and crashes. But it does. 2. Fromsoft always had problems with camera but this time they managed to make it worse. (mind-blowing talent). In ER when you lock-on to enemy and turn camera your lock-on will switch to whatever it wants EVEN THOUGH AUTO-LOCK-ON IS OFF. Sometimes this garbage can lock-on to enemies behind the walls. Sometimes it straight out will refuse to lock-on to a target that is in front of your face. 3. Fromsoft made huge world but had no idea how to fill it. So they just started copy-pasting enemies and bosses. Especially bosses. Some of them you can kill more than 5 times. If you think that bosses change somehow - no. Their HP and DMG just get an increase. 4. Exploration becomes really tedious and boring. Because you either get no rewards for it or reward is absolute garbage. Repetitive dungeons with repetitive bosses. 5. Starting areas almost have no armor and no weapons. Only after 40-50 hours I started getting weaponry for my stats. Huge specific area was riddled with it. By that time I settled for specific weapon and had no desire to try new ones, nor I had upgrade materials to invest in new toys. 6. End game is an epitome of UNBALANCE. Your stats mean **** Copy-pasted enemies from start-game locations which can kill you in three hits with bloated health. Absolutely bs bosses with endless combo attacks which can kill you in 2-3 hits with several phases. Fromsoft definitely **** the bed with this one. I still have hopes that all these issues will be resolved in coming year. If not - it's gonna be the worst soulsborne game to date. DS2 will be removed from its throne. This review comes from a person who spent more than 1k hours between ds1, ds3 and BB. Cheers.
Don't know why all the PC-gamer community is whining. Elden Ring took the botw formula, extended and perfected it. Best boss fights in any from software game with adaptive difficulty, Sprawling, bustling landscapes with secrets in every corner. Picked up the game and couldn't stop playing for 3 days.
It's a solid game but it has a few serious flaws that stop me from enjoying the game. First of all, I don't think the framerate drop is as bad as others say. My average FPS is 50-60 FPS, sometimes dropping to 30-40 FPS. Although, the FPS hiccup during the boss fight is seriously annoying. However, Elden ring's PC port is honestly terrible, what I can't stand is the user interface, especially as a mouse and keyboard player. For example: 1. Some functions can't rebind, ex: the map can only be opened by pressing G. 2. You can't use the mouse on the map, the mouse is useless (WHY?). 3. Can't change the camera with a mouse when talking, can only use a keyboard. (Weird) 4. The mounted combat, why the **** is the left mouse attacking the right side, and vice visa. Did they even test the game before release? Why I can't rebind the key? Where is the god damn patch? What frustrated me the most is that they improve the user interface on the Dark Souls III and Sekiro PC port, but then go backward to the Dark Souls II. Sadly, just like the Dark souls II PC port and its many issues, it will most likely never get fixed. Sadly, you just need to get used to it. Update: One major issue, please bring back the old Dark Souls covenant system, the world is empty and lifeless without invasion. You can't really be a good guy if there is no bad guy, the Blue Cipher Ring (the new Darkmoon) is broken because no one really bothers to invade anymore. Update 2: + The developer fixes some serious PvP glitches and skip-dialogue glitches in the new patch. Good. +/- Now we have NPC marker, but it's still **** (you have to talk to NPC first, and it disappears after they move). Therefore, most of this game's content is impossible to complete without closely following with the wiki because sometimes NPC would randomly and permanently die for no reason just because you explore other places. -The side quest design is so ****ty that you would wonder if it's bugged because NPC would just randomly disappear and die, and it's worse especially because it's an "open-world" game. - I realize a lot of the content is just copied and pasted, sometimes even thoughtlessly put two random bosses together, resulting in crappy gameplay. -Also, the game is very unbalanced, some gimmick bosses have an unreasonably big hitbox, extremely fast moves, very long combo (literally keep I-frame rolling until run out of stamina), 360 degrees 100% auto-aim. I wonder if the designer really tests plays this game themselves. Did they seriously throw away the Dark Souls online server for this half-baked crap?
Probably the best game I have ever played. The overall experience is very enjoyable, even after beating the game, I still want to keep playing for new game+. Some of the boss themes are very awesome, e.g. mohg / final boss, and other background soundtrack too, e.g. Frenzied flame merchant.
This is how a game is done. No MTS, no battlepass, you pay for a fuill game and you ACTUALY GET a full game! holy **** gaming company's take note!
A game like a trap to catch beginners with hype. The game is unbalanced, the variety of bugs, the large field, the slow bug fixes, everything is terrible! I recommend not to buy it.
Best game of all time? yes gimme more pls mr fromsoft pls yes more characters? ok fine now
Storyline is something strange. I don`t understand why Miyazaki needed George Martin help to make a plot for this game. Miyazaki wrote Bloodborne, Sekiro and Darks Souls. They had great story. But in this game it something not that good. Gameplay is done very good. I enjoy this kind of combat and rpg elements.
Sekiro is my favorite game in the world, was hoping something like that but i didnt like any of this game, i took a lot of time on margit, and then i killed all the bosses of the game at the first try, unbalanced as hell. And the open world **** rly hard in my opinion, not enjoyable and all the dungeons was the same.
Definitely the best game to come out in the past 5 years. I think it's in the top 5 games of all time. Amazing story, game-play, music and AI. Played over 200 hours and played all day every day in the release week. It's a hard game and it is supposed to be, it is fun in that sense itself, no micro-transactions and only grinding in-game which keeps everything fair for everyone. Amazing start, mid-game and every ending, 10/10.
yes this game was not made for everyone. Elder Ring creator keep up the good work.
Incredible graphics! The npc, monsters, bosses are visually amazing! Plunges you in such a great medieval atmosphere. The game is hard! But that’s bringing you back to when games were games, not easy rewards loop generators! Totally recommend it!
This is the pinnacle FromSoft experience, from Demon Souls to Dark Souls to Bloodborne they have distilled everything that makes their previous games special and put it into Elden Ring. If you are only going play one of their titles, let it be this one. In my opinion they struck a perfect balance between modernizing aspects of the game and staying true to their roots. My only two gripes about the game is 60 fps lock on PC (I was pretty much expecting it at this point, but unlocked FPS would’ve been a welcome break from tradition) and the PVP being lackluster compared to dark souls 2 or even 3. The only people who shouldn’t play this game are diehard soulsbornes fans who won’t be able to accept that FromSoft is changing up their formula slightly, and people who would never consider playing any of FromSoft’s other titles due to the difficulty. (While Elden Ring was much more approachable than any of the dark souls titles, it’s still a FromSoft game - if you can’t accept that you’re going to die hundreds of times to a stupid imp with a hatchet you won’t ever enjoy this game). I’m not going full completionist with my first playthrough but I’ve already clocked 80 hours, and it feels like there’s still so much left to discover. 9/10 recommending to everyone who’s not a demon souls cultist or afraid of “getting gud”
I am not a Souls quote on quote "fan". I had the briefest of experiences with Dark Souls 3. Fully admit I never made it past the tutorial "Boss". I probably was playing late and it wore on my patience and I never returned to it. Elden Ring then must be doing something right for me to have put 100+ hours into the game so far, but that is not to say that it is flawless. Going into the game I already kind of knew that it would be essentially another Dark Souls. But the open world intrigued me as did the art style/aesthetic. I understood that Souls games can be hard, and I expected Elden Ring to be no different. So my expectations largely did prove correct. But there are a few areas where Elden Ring differs in that it makes this game more accessible to folks like me without sacrificing the difficulty the series is known for. If you have played a Dark Souls game before you already know what to expect here. Combat is more nuanced and tactical. You have to keep an eye on not only your HP but your stamina as well as guarding and blocking are vital in avoiding getting punished by tougher enemies. I can't really speak to casting yet but my friends who are familiar with the series have noted that casting seems more fleshed out this go around. As you defeat enemies you earn runes which can then be spent to level up and improve your stats or to buy various equipment, etc. There is a robust crafting system to make use of all the materials you find out in the world. I did mention that Elden Ring is perhaps the best entry point for newcomers like me. If you get stuck? Elden Ring gives you a lot of options. You can farm some runes or go exploring and come back later. You don't have to feel like your hitting a brick wall. Sometimes however that is where the fun really lies when you are at a sliver of health and you manage to land that killing blow on a tough boss. The feeling of satisfaction and the difficulty are as much a part of the game's content as the other elements that comprise it. There's a good assortment of field bosses too to test your skill and patience against. That Tree Sentinel will wreck you which makes killing him later so satisfying. Perhaps more integral is just how expertly crafted the open world is. There are tons of things to find and do. Maybe you stumble across a tree and follow a ghostly image to a secluded cave. Maybe you find a chest and in trying to open it? You fall through the floor to a pit of rats. While the game has an abundance of "Finger" and "Hole" messages. There are a fair number of helpful messages tipping you off to devious traps. These offer up a sense of community to the game beyond just it's co-op. So where does Elden Ring fall short? To start it's not a very well optimized game. Performance can be unwieldy at times with the game dropping frames inexplicably which can lead to some unfortunate deaths. If there is another area where Elden RIng struggles it is it's co-op. Not the co-op itself but how it's initiated. Using a finger or what have you to host/summon a friend is unnecessarily convoluted. Why can't you just send an invite to a friend directly through Steam? I've heard some say "Well that's just how it's always been." But does it have to be that way just because that's how it's always been? I think the game might also benefit from a quest log/tracking system. Not saying to add "Markers" on screen, etc. At the very least I'd appreciate a bestiary or compendium that details the enemies and characters you have met along with the lore and story elements for them. Think of Witcher 3's bestiary/character compendium. I was pretty nervous and unsure if I would like the game after my ill-fated time with Dark Souls 3. But I have enjoyed it far more than I thought I would and hey when I've spent 100+ odd hours in the game to this point? I'd say that's a win. I've now killed Margit, Godrick, Renalla and hell even Malenia (yes I used summon and bleed don't judge!). My progress has been slow but it's allowed me to soak in the world and appreciate each triumph that comes through perseverance. Would I recommend this to newcomers? If your going to try a souls game? Or a Souls-like? Elden Ring is probably the best place to start. A 10 doesn't mean the game is without issue. It needs better optimization/performance. But as someone who is a Souls newbie? It gets my highest recommendation.
I have been playing video games since the early 90s and this is probably the best game I have played so far (and I'm not a huge fan of other Fromsoft titles so far). Review bombing this excellent game is just wrong. Anyone rating this game low probably didn't take enough time to appreciate this opus magnum. If it's your first step into the souls genre and you aren't the most stellar player you might have to deal with frustration. So this game might be a bit like a fine wine or piece of art that you can only appreciate with enough experience. But this is not an actual flaw of the game it is a problem of the person going into this game with wrong expectations (it will not offer instant gratification to a "newbie"). Also the game does not really offer accessibility options (which would be a double-edged sword as it's not really compatible with the idea of games Fromsoft is making). Works perfectly fine on my ryzen 1600 with rtx 3050 (50+ FPS in the open world and stable 75 in dungeons with near max settings). My only complaint would be the lack of DLSS support. This masterpiece blows any other similar game like breath of the wild out of the water. It has better graphics, sound, atmosphere, gameplay etc. They even finally managed to nail the controls/options almost perfect. About the story: It might be basic but I think it's perfect to focus on relevant things and not waste my time with tons of text or mindless dialogue that doesn't have any relevance. Show, don't tell - for me this focused/abstract way of story telling is nearly perfect. Yes souls games might not be too beginner friendly. You will need to look up some info and basic mechanics like iframes and maybe watch some videos to understand how to play correctly etc. Also you will need to adapt your strategy depending on the enemy and use your brain a bit. If the enemy is using a knife consider using a shield to block or parry those weak hits. If the enemy is hitting slow but hard consider dodging. If the enemy is shacking the ground maybe a nicely timed jump would be helpful to avoid the shockwave etc. Overall this one is the most beginner friendly Fromsoft title I have played so far and it actually offers very good and functional QoL features. Absolutely love it. Update: After finishing this masterpiece I was motivated to conquer most other Fromsoft titles and for me there is no company that can deliver games on this level. If you are stuck in a Fromsoft title it's almost 100% on your end because the games offer a lot of different strategies etc. For example I play all Fromsoft titles (including sekiro) without controller, without parry and without lockon while a lot of players are stuck in a mindset that they are forced into using these mechanics or complain about struggling with the camera (which was never a problem for me in any Fromsoft title).
Elden Ring is the pinnacle of FromSoft's experience, combining both the best and worst of previous games into an open world 200+hours game (if you're a completionist like me, that is). It deserves neither the excessive praise from fanboys, whom at this point have become FromSoft cultists, nor the excessive hate from casual gamers. The good: - Fascinating storytelling, which unfortunately can be partially lost by exploring too early as this breaks various questlines. The main storyline, and storylines which lead to alternative endings, are excellent. - Open world suits the Dark Souls-esque genre exceptionally well, while plenty of large dungeons are available in the traditional Dark Souls design style. Large portions of these dungeons are optional and well-hidden, but also highly rewarding. - The game world is breathtakingly beautiful. Ignore the complaints about the graphics; these are just people used to the trope in gaming of high detailed stuff up close and ugly trash in the distance, hidden by fog or needless objects. Elden Ring instead emphasizes distance, giant landmarks and open plains. The thematic designs of various areas is also exceptionally awe-inspiring, particularly the (underground) cities seen in the mid-lategame, though unfortunately many of these are entirely optional and somewhat hidden. - Per extension of the above, and the huge amount of content in the game, exploration is absolutely amazing - perhaps the best out of any game thus far. Expect to be surprised by random dungeons and unique loot nearly everywhere. The subjective: - Much easier than previous titles, even when compared to the original Dark Souls, which was also much easier than claimed in mainstream gaming journalism. ER is not a hardcore gaming experience, as opposed to FromSoft's last game Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, and the lack of a difficulty setting now favors semi-casual gamers, thus it turns into an annoyance to hardcore gamers. - Optimized for playing with a controller. Very poor support for keyboard controls: You can't bind specific items or spells to specific hotkeys, thus you're stuck cycling between lists while peering at the UI to see what you're selecting. Not as bad as Sekiro, thankfully, since you've got plenty of time to mess up. The bad: - Extremely poor balance between classes. Melee exclusive play forces you to learn enemies' moves and pick your fights carefully, while a mage class can just stomp through the entire game with near-zero chance of dying. Some of the game's most interesting and imposing bosses can be killed in two-three casts. In other words, class decision is the game's difficulty slider, and it ranges from "difficult" to "child's play". I expect future patches to alleviate this problem somewhat. - Poor balance between early and mid/late game. Early on the game can be ruthless, especially if you open the first locked dungeon you find and waltz right in, yet after being given the opportunity to optimize your build it's smooth sailing, and you can go for a full fashion build without problems. You'll get to know early game enemies well, but the late game ones are just fodder. This punishes completionists, who become far more powerful than casual players would be at any given point. - As mentioned, exploration is punished by questlines randomly breaking, often without any causal reason. It "just sorta happens", "because". - It's nearly impossible to keep track of the various NPC's quests without using the game's wiki due to a lack of an in-game journal or other hints about where to find NPC's. It seems FromSoft decided on the open world design, but didn't embrace that decision when it comes to storytelling. - Forced platforming. The overwhelming majority of my characters' deaths were due to falling off cliffs or into water (which for some bizarre reason means instant death). There's no reason for this in a combat-centric game. Like driving challenges in GTA-like games, it's unnecessary and disruptive. At least in GTA games the rewards for driving tend to be driving-related, but in ER the platforming leads to combat gear, which is silly. - Some of the common small dungeons/caves are so heavily copied from one another that you'll know exactly what you'll find around the corner. Not a major issue, but certainly unfortunate. All in all, 8/10. It could've been 10/10, and with some major patches it still could be - but I'm not holding my breath.
After 100% I can clearly tell that this is a downgrade in every aspect (except creativity) to other Fromsoft games. Elden Stutter Bloat Cheese - I believe that sums it up well.
Huge performance problems on PC. The controls are designed for the Controller and the default keyboard and mouse settings are horrible. Unplayable with keyboard and mouse because most of the keys have multiple functions which you have to activate with shift. Even changing the key bindings doesn't solve some problems. You still have to press multiple keys in combat, for example, when you want to call your horse.
I've said it before, I'll say it again, Elden Ring is a remarkable game. At his point in time, I've beaten it three times. There's a few things I've seen in other reviews, and I want to address. First of all the graphics. As someone who does 3D-Modelling and landscape creation, I can only marvel at the stuff from soft did. Some people call it last gen... Oh boy how this infuriates me. To me it's as if you call games like Minecraft and Cuphead ugly, because they lack "raytracing". Just type in "Elden ring vista" or search for a youtube video of the graphics and you know what I mean. Just as a reminder: You don't need the unreal engine 5 to achieve impressive imagery. When it come to gameplay, its just plain fun. Like I said, I've beaten the game three times already. The difficulty is insane, but doable, if you abandon the thought of face tanking everything. The music and voice acting are, as always, pretty freaking epic (search for "Malenia theme" and "Serpent king") The last thing I would like to point out as something I enjoyed but some may not is the missing hand holding. Where quests basically pull you through the game world. But I think this just encourages you to go out and explore, because this is a world worth exploring.
I didn't finish the game, probably won't, but I did enjoy it and had a lot of fun, just for me personally I don't really wanna put weeks or months into this game when I have other games I'd prefer to be playing, I'm not much of a dark souls person but the games are enjoyable and this one was really good, I loved the free roam aspect and being able to go at your own pace, but like I said I probably won't finish the game, because I don't wanna sit there for weeks to months trying to beat it, but unlike other people who rant about the game and didn't even bother to play all of it, I did enjoy it overall.
The pve experience is quite good **** pvp in the other hand is not as good as the previous dark souls **** has a lot of **** example:the afk rune farmer,they are some fricking idiots who's just gonna stay at some place that you just cant come to them without torrent and make you look at them and cant do anything.Another problem is about the equipments in the game,there are some weapons and ashes of war(skill) that are impossible to punish except its user make a mistake and you cant just go for an **** rivers of blood,bloodhound's step,stars of ruin,these things are busted in pvp and so op that you sometimes have to use them to win in pvp,cause theyre way more superior than **** of course the bugs but they gonna fix it in the future so im not gonna talk about them. In conclusion,if youre a person who enjoy pve not pvp,youre gonna have an amazing open world game **** if you want to play pvp too,i recommend you to wait for a patch that they fix most the problems that i mention above.Overall,this is a awesome game,probably the best game yet in 2022 and it will not disappoint you
My first Souls game. This game is simply beautiful, it is visually stunning. Endless combat options keep me interested to try new specs. I've put 180 hours into it and I can see many more ahead. Easily the best game I've played in recent years.
This is essentially a Dark Souls 3, but better! - Combat mechanics have been improved - Graphics is just astounding - There's a lot more content than in previous games - 10/10 It has its issues, but what it really is is the souls game polished to the maximum, it takes everything that made previous souls games good, puts it into a single game, and even builds on top of it.
Pros: + build variety + enemy designs + beautiful graphics + beautiful world map + great voice acting + atmospheric + platforming while on horse Cons: - malenia fight - can't open map while in combat - occasional stuttering - no inventory search or favorite
I really wanted to love this game, but I still prefer The Witcher 3. You will either love or hate this game depending on what you enjoy out of video games. If you look for a challenge where you have to work hard to make any progress in the game then you will love this game, if you look for an immersive game with an amazing story then you will hate this game.
The game looks great. I love the art style and animation. Unfortunately, it's not for everyone. Elden Ring is designed for a niche audience. It's made for 13-29 year old males that play video games for 12 hours a day. More importantly, it's made for people who are familiar with the Dark Souls franchise. If you're not a hardcore gamer and you're not familiar with the Dark Souls franchise, you're going to HATE this game. It wasn't for me. I couldn't enjoy the play style. I hate the controls. They're clunky and unresponsive. You press the attack button and you get locked into an uninterruptable 5 second animation. Some people enjoy this play style - I do not. I didn't enjoy the game play. I couldn't get into it. I refunded with less than 2 hours played.
The most fantastic game ever made. This game is even better than RDR GTA and Breath of the Wild. This game is a masterpiece.
Monumental game one of the best in the last years. Pros: - intriguing story and breathtaking cinematics - beautiful landscapes and graphics - no performance issues for me - Playing as a fairly new FromSoftware game player I could finish it with minor frustrations - difficulty was OK for me, except crucible knights some fights gave great accomplishment after longer tries - lot of content,100 hours Cons: - repetitive smaller dungeons - repetitive bosses sometimes you have to fight one like 3 times - sometimes really poorly designed ruthless enemies
Load Bar Simulator - Waste your Life Away Waiting for Death Load Bars Horse Simulator - One of the BEST horse simulator combat games ever made. Should just be called "YOU DIED" 50 HRS IN: No real progression, small rewards, and almost non-existent story. I find myself falling asleep waiting for load times trying to memorize timing and spin attacks. I find this more boring than reading. 150 HRS IN: Can't play it for more than an hour without getting absolutely bored with the content. Overall Score - BAD game. 2/10. It could have been SO MUCH better if they added a difficulty bar and SCALED the bosses/monsters. Instead the bosses/monsters are level-locked and later end-game bosses are a repetitive nightmare. You can enjoy the game if you get to level 300, but then you one shot all the lower level bosses because of level-lock.
I haven't played much, but right now i can confirm that game optimisation ****. With mine i5-11400f and RTX 3050 on LOW settings frame rate on open world (surely on dungeons fps is higher) is jumping over 35-55 fps. and that's even i wasn't talking about 60 FPS cap. This game needs so much fixes for PC (idk how's going on on consoles). And optimisation is the main task! IMHO
After fully completing the game and putting in 140 hours, I think the critics nailed it, this game really is an open world masterpiece which is guaranteed to influence open world rpgs and maybe even open world shooters moving forward. The artistic, design, sound, exploration, immersion, combat, lore, enemy/area/boss/weapon/spell variety and size of the world are literally off the charts. It's also challenging while not being unfair and it gives you options to trivialise absolutely anything if you have no interest in the challenge. If they had charged $100 (EA or Ubisoft would have) it would be understandable but at 60 it's a steal. This game is almost certainly going to win GOTY 2022.
I really wanted to like this game, but it was impossible; it's not "soulslike" is literally the same dark souls again, the same game with new enemies and a new map. The combat is quite boring, movements feel imprecise, very clunky, combat feels boring when you have to spend most of the time defending, I'm sure there are people that enjoy rolling most of the time of a combat but I don't, this feels just too boring and old for being a 2022 game, same goes with graphics, the performance for the visuals are bad, so the result is a game that feels 6-7 years old.
Wait for a sale so you don't feel committed to it. I can understand a person liking this game if your expectations from open-world games are low because, well, that's honestly just me trying to throw the masses a bone with this game. The truth is I don't like it. My time doesn't feel efficiently spent and I swear I've spent twice as long playing it as the game says I have. Never a good sign. I'm not a FromSoftware veteran whatsoever, but my experience with open-world games is extensive, so I judge the game on those merits. The things I heard FromSoftware did well in past games are present here, which namely are the combat mechanics. Combat against normal enemies and mini-bosses is more fun and engaging than in most games. Apparently their level design is lauded too though which I would never know playing Elden Ring. It's a really boring open world if I'm being completely honest. Exploration is de-incentivized pretty quickly because I never feel amply rewarded for it. Maybe that's not the point but why make this an open-world game then? There are no interesting characters to find, talk to, and gain a sense of direction from, but there are odd merchant beings hiding in unlikely places for some reason (and in the Roundtable Hold, which i don't otherwise see the point of and you're forced to go there very early in the game in a jarring fashion), and the meager things I do find aren't impressive. Maybe once you've mastered the mechanics, the Ashes of War pickups are more valuable, but I'm still learning the game when I have five of them in my inventory, and from what I can tell they make my weapon stats worse. I tried them as a curiosity and while some of them do cool things, Storm Stomp feels useless and makes any weapon it's attached to worse - I trusted the game not to do that to me and ruined a good weapon in the process. I like the rune system overall but I don't wanna grind for them to get a new weapon. All this is my observation as someone who isn't aware of the mechanics behind the scenes when I first try it. I don't want to feel like I need to go RNG mode when I'm first experiencing the game. You also don't feel like you have much choice but to invest all your level-up points into certain stats, at least early-game, so character creativity is stifled if not entirely sacrificed. You like story? Good like finding one here. "Become the Elden Lord" ain't exactly gonna propel me like a rocket through any game. This world and this universe are boring without a decent narrative. Sorry.
One of the best videogames I have ever played in this decade. Inmense and rich
Probably the best open world in a game to date. There is so much to do and see, that is leaves other open worlds to shame. Gameplay-wise, it's what you expect out of a Souls game, but with more depth and variety. The rewards for dungeons or other challenges can be a hit or miss: sometimes cool stuff that you want, sometimes useless things, but "the journey not the destination" is very much applied. The end game has a major spike in difficulty(mostly enemies doing absurd amounts of damage), but it is still a very very satisfying experience. Highly recommend.
The game is good, excellent sound design, locations, variety of weapons. She pulled me in for lot of days. But on the technical side, the game is 5 years outdated. Havok in 2022? Really? Something needs to be done with the game engine, physics alone is annoying to the point of impossibility.
- Multiplayer: 1/10 An outrageously convoluted mess! Remedies, Effigies, Fingers, tongues, needing to be in the exact same place in the world to join.. Just make it like every other multiplayer game and add a button called "Join" - Storyline: 5/10 Average. Formulaic and derivative. Plus side has multiple endings. - Gameplay: 2/10 Poor. As of May 22, 2022 on Steam, only 17.2% of players have beaten Elden Ring. This tells you the vast majority of players lose interest before finishing the game.
Elden Ring is a massive, open world souls-like game which works way better than I thought it ever would. The story is pretty vague at surface level and some of the side quests can be hard to follow without a guide, but the gameplay is so good and the amount of things to fight and places to see is great. The feeling of discovery you get from this game is unparalleled, in the sense that there's always something to find. Main issue for me is PC optimization is pretty rough and the lack of a pause function.
Elden Ring is a perfect example for the things running wrong in the gaming community in the last years. This game is by far overrated! A generic open world with problematic controls which let you die again and again because the controls cannot live up to the high standard the developers set for itself. I really cannot understand gamers which like to waste a lot of time for very less progress in a game. Are they all unemployed with no families or what?!! On the other side they blame the developers of a far more complex and more difficult to develop game like f.e. Battlefied 2042. In my eyes BF2042 is on a far higher level in technical, mechanical and controllable matters than this Elden Ring cr*p.
Video games are supposed to do two things: entertain and give fun. The Souls saga fails in both. Its a game which will keep you frustrated, because it's unfairly hard, and even after a lot of effort, when you manage to kill the bosses, there is no good sensation, just a relief from a bad sensation that the game caused itself. I am really needing good games lately, and buying Dark Souls 3 and Elden ring was a big mistake. Don't waste your money with this kind of game.
One of the biggest titles of the decade. If I had to decide, I'd go with this over Breath of the Wild, f*** Link.
During the first playthrough of the game, Masterpiece encourages you to explore the Lands Between. It is rather tricky than impossible to progress through the story while only defeating the shard bearers. Exploring the game and discovering new items that the game awards you for being curious, different ways of approach produce different outcomes that reward your craftiness. Defeating the mini-boss and the main boss feels satisfying while you learn their move sets. The map itself is an artwork yet unforgiving, you will traverse the land encountering new mobs while adjusting as to how you should plan out your journey
As my first souls game, I wasn't sure if I was going to like Elden ring or not. However, after playing it, I can confidently say that this game is one of the best I've played. This is one of the few games where dying does not feel frustrating but fun. Furthermore, the game allows for huge playstyle customizability. On the other hand, I found the story to be uninteresting. In addition, there is no quest log, which in my opinion makes the experience of doing sidequests worse. Lastly, the pc performance can be laggy, but not to a degree that it makes the game harder or unplayable. Despite some minor flaws, I would recommend this game to even newcomers.
This is the best game I have ever played. No joke. I've never even played another Fromsoft game besides the first dark souls which I didn't even beat. The gameplay is terrifyingly addictive, the world and the lore is so deep I could soak in it for hours. There are characters you actually **** care about and quests you devote too many hours to. The soundtrack is outrageously beautiful and the game itself is stunning to look at, graphically and artistically. I don't think many games out there deserve a 10/10 but this is absolutely one I have no doubts about giving it to.
Works fine on my machine(SSD + AMD Ryzen 7 5800H + RTX 3060 Laptop) Too much reuse of enemies and similar dungeons to be solid 10/10
If you see a 10/10 they are definitely Fromsoft fanboys. This game is NOWHERE near 10/10, especially the PC version. The single player game is a 6 to 7/10 max and even that is generous. The constant crashing, the lower quality graphics(for 2022 the graphics should be a lot better than this), the need to google EVERYTHING about EVERYTHING in the game, and the reused assets(you will fight the same boss over and over again after mid-game) is why I cannot give this higher than a 7. I am not a graphics nerd. I don't need it to be life like for me to enjoy it(heck I still go back and play Atari games sometimes), but the graphics, while good, are no where near the quality of even God of War which came out over 4 years ago. Look no further that the fact that this released(and still as of this date) with no widescreen mode. If you have a nice curved 3440 monitor than this game will only serve to piss you off with the HUGE black bars on the sides. It has a bad problem with crashing constantly. It seems to happen the most when I use the map. No fix yet as of writing this. The need **** search bar integrated into this game is a huge fault. I don't need my hand to be held with my games, but when I can't understand what something does and there is NO repository for it in the game, then there is a huge problem. There is ZERO quest tracking, not nearly enough info on what things do, the amount they do and the time in which they do said thing and no journal to look at to remember what's been said/done. This adds nothing to the game and in fact detracts from it to the point that it makes the Devs look extremely lazy, to not add even the most basic of info on things, or they did it to pad the games play time. The reuse of assets gets really bad after midgame, the same boss you fought earlier WILL make an appearance, it's not if they will, it's when. The multiplayer is straight garbage and is why I gave a 5/10 instead of a 7. The multiplayer, Hooo boy, where to begin... First, this is NOT a co-op game. It's a PvP game with co-op elements. You don't get to just hop in with a friend, Oh no, you have to furl a finger and wave some mist around first, and if your friend has beaten the boss of the area it's a no go, you can't join them. Also be prepared to get invaded by a guy who is maxed out on everything and is in new game + #16 with OP weapons and skills and 1 shots you, or someone lag switching and warping everywhere so your hits don't land but when they hit it's always a crit or backstab, or a straight up cheater who will invade just to corrupt your save so you have to start ALL over again. Sounds fun huh? Wanna play with just your friend and run around and have fun? Too bad! This is FROMSOFT BEEEE-OUCH! If I would have known how bad the horrible "co-op" mode is I would not have purchased the game. So no, this is FAR from GOTY and any 10/10 score. Take off the Fromsoft rose colored glasses and get a reality check if you think it is. Even with all this the single player mode is still pretty enjoyable, but these problems are, for some reason, completely overlooked because it's a "Fromsoft/Souls like" game by all these 10/10er's. Do you think they would overlook all this for anyone else? I seriously doubt it. I have an un-furled finger for you Fromsoft, wanna guess which one?
Games pretty good. I don't think it's a masterpiece nor do I think it's as good as people say it is, but I still enjoyed my time with it for the most part. Keep in mind, while I am gonna write more cons than I do pros, the pros still outweigh the cons in my opinion. Pros: Fun combat Great graphics Interesting world The weapon art/ash of war system is pretty interesting and fun to mess around with Cons: Bad pc performance Overall bad/lazy bosses (there are some good ones and some great ones, but they are far outnumbered by the ones that just aren't fun. Many bosses do this annoying thing where every time you get close they attack and back up from you to get out of your reach, making it feel like the boss is more scared of you than you are of them. It's annoying and not fun) -Reusing bosses both from previous games and reusing bosses multiple times in this game (A LOT) -Atrocious balancing (End game enemies do way too much damage for what is reasonable, even at -2nd softcapped vigor you still get 2 shot by nearly everything) -Pvp is bad, mainly due to the poor balancing (i will admit it can still be fun, but I still think its pretty objectively bad) -Certain mechanics are just really annoying and add nothing, such as not being able to teleport at the beginning of caves or not being able to open the map if an enemy 12 football fields away is staring you down (like bruh just disable fast-travel, not the entire damn map) -Lack of quality of life features such as a quest log or elevation changes being poorly displayed on the map -Many areas are either lame or just outright annoying, such as the mountaintop of the giants or Elphael In closing, this game has many flaws but is still pretty good. I wanted to go further in depth into the cons because most others seem to sweep them under the rug. Overall, I would recommend this game, but just take the 10/10s with a significant portion of salt
Beautiful and fun game. If you like a challenge you won't regret playing this.
I love RPG games, however this game made me want to uninstall straight away. It is a big waste of time and money. Not intuitive for new players, no story. Just an open world where small rats can kill you and make you lose progress. Disgusting. How can this be the game of 2022?? I rather play Tetris than this crap
Elden Ring isn’t perfect. Comparing this game to other FromSoftware products one aspect after another it’s clear that Elden Ring: isn’t as smooth as Sekiro, doesn’t have bosses like Dark Souls, and it’s story isn’t as good as Bloodborne, but looking this way at anything will make no sense, you simply do not order salad in Subway and then put one star review saying that they refused to sell you a salad. We’re thrown in fractured world only hundred years after The ****, war that no demigod came out victorious leaving Lands Between in stalemate. We’re tarnished, once stripped from the grace of Greater Will and exiled, coming back to Lands Between, resurrected and yet again guided by the very grace we were stripped from, with one goal – to become the Elden Lord. To summarize how big Lands Between are I will say only this: there’s always more. Elden Ring world is made up from five main parts on surface level, this already sounds like enormous place. But wait, there’s more – each part has legacy dungeons, big structures that player can get lost for hours and still be surprised revisiting the place. There are also catacombs, minor erdtrees, ruins, villages, and so on. It is very densely packed and it gives hours upon hours of additional content to go through. Still not enough? There is literally 3 major underground locations, each bigger than the last one. And for the dessert - whole legacy dungeon floating above the sea near the coastline of Lands Between. FromSoftware creates dark fantasy and I, personally, think that currently there’s no one in the industry better at doing so. The most important part for some, especially if advertised as ACTION RPG. Just a reminder, you’re Tarnished, a nobody with a simple task to become the Elden Lord, against various demigods, with a stick and wooden shield. The game is not easy. It is not the hardest FromSoftware game, but it’s still hard, especially for newcomers. Will you get bored? I don’t think there’s a chance to get bored in this game, even with such simple combat mechanics, because there’s also variety of builds, with easily over 200, probably even more weapons, over 100 armor sets for your fresh Elden Bling, and many more configurations with new addition – Ashes of War. If that’s not enough, let’s talk about variety of enemies. Remember seeing total of 19 enemies in God of War from 2018, winner of Game of the Year? There’s over 140 unique enemy types in the game that are vastly different from each other (except for reskins, not many of them though). I am Malenia, Blade of Ashina, and hasitation is defeat. TLDR : The game is the only rightful choice for Game of the Year.
Disappointment: Story: what story? something about fight bosses and become a lord, bland and boring. there is memorable character, I found the let me solo her cosplay player more memorable. Graphic: hello 2003 graphic, there is a reason why things are dark and hazy, to hide all the outdated graphic. Sound: there was sound and music? I cant recall. Game mechanic: not difficult at all like everyone else is saying but certainly very frustrating, no save, loss of hard earn runes, chunky movement with a lot of platform jumping, bad UI design and control.
The majority of the game is very fun and addictive but, and this is a huge but, the boss design and balancing is insanely bad, certain bosses are made to be roadblacks that must be faced, there are some that actually punish you for not cheesing them, there are loads that are way too aggressive so they literally leave no room to get an attack in and some builds will have no way to counter them until after they somehow beat the boss. There are a lot of places where you will, without warning, end up teleported and stuck, unable to level up, reallocate flasks, upgrade anything, so you can end up losing your save if you get sent in unprepared which goes against exploration because there is no way of knowing when or if you're strong enough without entering and then you can't leave. There is a lot of that and it really ruins the experience and flies in the face of the "dust yourself off and try again" appeal of these games when a lot of bosses actually have nothing to do with skill, if you have the wrong build, you just may not be able to react fast enough to do anything without being killed as a result, you went caster? Tough luck, you literally have no time to charge your spells. You went tanky with a shield? Tough luck, this boss does a room length piercing attack that will stagger through the best gear available until after them and then they go into a one shot combo before you can control your character again and they patched out one early material could have let you upgrade one gear piece, like your shield, so you wouldn't stagger, could dodge the combo and then punish but instead we have this because boss design and balancing ****. The fact even diehard players went after the material because without that upgraded piece, some builds could not beat the boss blocking them from progessing the story and accessing other areas, or at least would require such perfect play, it's beyond what even a Souls style game can realistically ask. In summary, the good is very good but the bad will make this game literally unbeatable for a lot of people.
A masterpiece. Don't trust people who bought the game only to hate it. Tho all those who say the game is too hard I would like to remind that you literally find two gamebreaking invocations (the ashes) on the path to the first boss. If only they would be so kind as to try them instead of just quitting after the third try on Margit (against wich you also have yet another summon) then maybe they would realize that this game really is an approachable game for everyone. But I don't think that's gonna happen unfortunately, since people who make such shallow reviews probably don't even have the will to seriously try the game before insulting it here...
Mediocre game overall pros: - amazing world design - great combat and magic system with lots of variety - great music and sounds Cons: - poor balancing, especially lategame is not fun anymore - multiplayer broken with tons of connectivity issues - copy paste, copy paste, copy paste everything is recycled endless times incl mainquest bosses - subpar performance - haven´t found a story in 300 hours of playing it, no clue what to do - sicequests impossible to do without reading wiki - some bossfights are unfair because bosses don´t play by the rules of the game with endless combos and AOE spell spam - poorly balanced gankfights against multiple bosses who stunlock you towards the end of the game - lots of different build possible but only very few are viable for lategame - forced invasions (pvp) when trying to play coop
Not your average open world assasins creed/Horizon-esque type of game. This is basically Dark Souls but huge. It's not for everyone, and it doensn't have to be. It's a unique type of experience, even for a Dark Souls aficionado like me.
After playing loot of crap from Bethesda,ubisoft,Ea ...etc this is so god and do not copy anyone after long time and after 2015 witcher 3 ...finally proper rpg
A wonderful open world experience...Unforgiving and uncompromising, sometimes a little bit too much. But overall satisfying and i'll look fondly back at my 300+ hours and multiple playthrough's. Ignore all the mewling **** moaning about graphics, its totally fine. The games vista's and scenery is awesome. The music is great, the atmosphere of danger and exploration is probably one of the strong points of the game. The combat is not for everyone, although once you get over the difficulty and start getting used to the controls and mechanics it becomes more comfortable, but it still requires some investment. The UI is rather plain, sparse and dull, and not the greatest. The story is actually great, although its told really sparsely and too cryptically for my liking, and that would be my main gripe. There is no journal or record keeping/logging of quests and clues, so you HAVE to use a wiki or keep notes. Which i also felt was kind of unnecessary. But ultimately a good game, just not too big a fan of some mechanics and features of "souls like" games.
Best game ever. A beautiful world, so many things to discover with no quest marker or anything, this is your story you go wherever you want. A lot of replayability with many ends and builds possible.
I enjoy it very much. Thank God it runs on RX 580 smoothly. Control is understandable, and the progression system is excellent. Easy to follow, yet at the same time, it offers high level of freedom. This reminds me of the witcher 3. Easily 10/10.
Elden ring just another legendary game ever , but pc still some graphic problem need to fix , if u really like dark souls 2 , u should try it , I think Elden ring more like dark souls 2 became a open world game but in fantasy type ,
**** optimization, FromSoft **** on their fans with how bad it is optimized for pc
perfect GAME.Absolute Peak of From Software games. The sheer amount of content available for the player to explore is absurd.
Elden Ring is Fromsoft taking great things from all of their other games and melding them into one, but also made it open world and bumped the quality from 10 to 11. The combat is basically DS3 but better, which is great. BB and Sekiro still have better combat though. The world design is their best ever, the side characters are their best ever. The boss design is mostly on par with their best imo. There are like 5 bosses that contend with my all time favorites from the other games. The open world is probably the best I've experienced. Also has the best QOL features by far. I do still have some complaints though. There is a lot of boss reusing, but its 99% in side content so I don't really mind. Some boss attacks are kinda BS. And theres a lot of group/gank bosses that are very obnoxious, mostly in side content but there is one story one in particular that everyone despises.
you will get bored before you actually beat it cause game starts recycling enemies and assets
Ok after Skyrim, Elden ring is the game of the decade for me ! Its not for everyone, its hard, you will die too many times but this is the game. Pros: -Storyline: by George Martin with vague quests, no help, no markers, the game tells you go f@@ you, go find everything yourself 10/10 -Gameplay: dark souls formula, many weapons, many strategies (watch youtube) 10/10 -Quantity with quality: these words together is very hard to find in games nowadays, many games will have only one of them, but elden ring have them both with no extra cost, no payments just free content to play 10/10 -Graphics: the graphics are not so good as the latest pc games but the drawing of the scenary is mindblowing, too many places, unique every one of them 8/10 Diss: -Bad pc port: Unfortunately the pc port is not perfect, i have gforce 1070 titan, i didnt had a lot of lag, only sometimes for a second but there are other with much more lag, with graphic cards much more stronger than me. FROM SOFTWARE should give the same quality in performance as the PS5 version, there are no excuses here, we are talking for a game witch every second matters between victory & death. 6/10
Despite my love for such games, I, surprisingly, disappointed. Basically all the problems come from open world.... Prehistoric dungeon design, inconsistent enemies type and group, open fields of pure nothing and lack of motivation lead to the fact that after some time you just started skipping most of the battles, and simply run out of interest. In the end: lack of sense of progression and direction just killed whole mood. And that's all without reminding about souls-like storytelling, which is very subjective. Ps I really miss carefully designed classic levels. Ps ps let's forget about the widespread reuse of materials by developers... or not...
Longtime fan of souls series and this was over the top masterpiece dont know what they can do next i think this was their peak. Optimalization on pc is not very good but still that couldnt scare me off to enjoy this peak of gaming industry to finish it. Hands to the best game I ever played. 10/10 deserved
As others reviewers mentioned, the PC version is super ****. It doesn’t support UW screen and the instructions of control button is confusing. Otherwise it can be a good game. Play on PS5 if you want to enjoy it.
This game is great! The landscapes look stunning, the gameplay is fun and intense, the bosses are all hard but fair, and the classes and weapons all are very creative and fun to use. My only complaints are Liurnia of the lakes and the PC port being eh. First off, Liurnia is a NIGHTMARE to traverse. mountainous areas in this game just doesn't work. you have to CONTANTLY look at you map to see where to go when all of the other areas feel like you don't even need the map. easily my least favorite area because at least with gelmir, you get a bunch of ladders. My second complaint is with some performance issues. It is VERY clear this game was meant for console. The game will sometimes drop frames for no reason (I have a very good PC) especially during bosses which is the last time you want frame drops. This game is EXELLENT, but if you want the full experience, play on console. I have put nearly 200 hours into this game and I only got it recently. My fullest recommendation.
My first souls like game and im blown away. The sheer content in this game is mindboggling. Its not easy, but feels very rewarding when you get an upgrade or defeat a boss. Easily game of the year. edit: I just finished it after 160 hours and it was a epic journey. 11/10
Everything a game should be. You never run out of ways to die and things to find.
Man…..what a journey Elden Ring was. Yeah, sure, there was a lot of hype surrounding the game, and I knew I was going to play it day one. And yeah, sure, I knew it was gonna be good. I’ve played every title FromSoftware has dropped, so I knew what to expect. What I didn’t expect, however, is that Elden Ring would blow my expectations right outta the effin’ water. Where do I even start? Huge open world. Nooks and crannies freakin’ galore. Secrets. Dungeons. Secret dungeons. I mean, you name it, they’ve already thought about it and put in this damn game. This is a world begging to be explored. Because if you do, you will absolutely stumble upon something. A weapon, armor set, spell, whatever. This game rewards you in so many different ways. And the world…holy hell, just beautifully crafted; intricate, in fact. The world is your oyster. Play however you want, go in any direction you want, fight whoever you want. It simply will not hold your hand. From the very moment you step foot into the first area, the game simply tells you, “go”. I got huge Breath of the Wild vibes, and that is a beautiful thing to have that much freedom at your fingertips. Here are my gripes. For the PC version, the performance is hit or miss. The game runs great the vast majority of the time, but I’ve run into frame rate drops, hiccups, and freezes every so often. Dungeons will recycle bosses, so I wish there was more variety there. Main bosses are a friggin’ nightmare. They will one hit kill you, or assault you with relentless combos, and have long range and devastating area of effect attacks. Maybe I need to “get good”, but somewhere in the back of my mind while fighting these bosses I felt like the relentless amount of attacks thrown at you and damage scaling could use some tweaking. Elden ring is not just a lover letter to the Soulsborne genre, but a love letter to gaming in general. It has been a long time where I have been truly absorbed in a game. I very, very rarely try and unlock trophies in any game. This was an exception. I unlocked every trophy. Elden Ring set the standard and set the bar really, really high. This is what games should strive to be like. It really was a pleasure to play and experience this, and I hope FromSoftware continues to follow this formula with their future projects. Although I had an issue or two with this game, Elden Ring is perfection. This is a masterpiece, and you would be remiss not to play this.
Absolutely incredible game, easily one of the best games I've ever played. Yes, It's difficult, yes, there is a lot of BS, but if you have the balls to keep playing after the 2nd boss, you figure out why critics are giving it a 10/10. It's simple. Very few games give you as much freedom in the open world as elden ring does. Exploration is the name of the game here. A boss too hard? Go explore the world, become stronger and kick it's ass. That being said there are issues here. Some areas of the game *cough* Divine Tower of Caelid will make you wonder "wtf were they thinking". And while most bosses are fun and interesting, the fire giant just... is not. People have also complained about performance issues which I haven't personally experienced and i play the game on Linux, so yeah idk what's with that. There are also a few areas of the game that are a bit annoying to explore, the story is a bit confusing, especially if you don't progress as intended you can end up skipping a lot of story. Overall, Great game 9.5/10
A genuine masterpiece coming from a studio that has kept improving their games each time. This game is a culmination of all their past experiences. Being an avid souls fan, this game was truly a love letter for me. Venturing into the genre of an open world game must have been challenging, but FromSoft has proved yet again that love for one's work will always leads to successful results. This game does not hold your hands at all. After completing the tutorial, the player is immediately pushed into a world full of epic vistas and exhilarating challenges that, once completed provide a sense of grandeur and glory. This adventure towards becoming the Elden Lord will truly be a beautiful journey provided that you stick with it even when the obstacles seem immovable. Truly a must play.
Amazing game when compared to other open world rpgs out there. Very innovative and course setting
If you are a sunday player or moron who likes only easy games, please leave it and stop giving ones and twos. Game is genius, best game I ever played, equali with Terraria. After 130 hours I still have a lot, I mean a lot of things to go thru, still being like idk 50-100 hoursbto the ending
If I had to sum this game up in one word it's exhausting. The sloppy platforming makes exploration a stressful mess where enemies are far less threatening than a 3 inch jump. That being said it's mostly good but this issue really brings down the experience.
Best game of all time and to all the people who give this game a low score: you are just braindead!
Cons: Boring. parry doesn't work. You need to do a lot of work to make you own fun and read into no story at all. The hate keyboard+mouse users. Runs awful on PC. Pros: Beautiful game and great enemy design.
Let me start by saying that I platinumed all previous SoulsBorne games, and I really wanted to like this game. The first areas are great, you can explore, there are dungeons, bosses and secrets, but it gets stale really quick unfortunately. The first area is by far the most interesting part of the open world, after that it takes a huge dip in quality (late game areas almost made me uninstall the game, and not because of difficulty but for lack of interest) I know bare and depressing atmosphere is their thing, but it doesn't work in an open world setting, the combat is great and varied with the addition of weapons arts, but it seriously lacks balance; it's extremely easy to make an OP build that renders most bosses a joke. the lore is legit dark souls copy pasted. yeah I know that may not be a bad thing for some, but when they said they are done with dark souls and wanted to create something new, I thought they meant it.. And finally, and what really triggered me was the side quests, the system in the previous games was always stupid, as you couple easily fail a questline simply by doing something before talking to some NPC you didn't even notice, although that was more or less tolerable as the game was somewhat linear, but stick with the same quest system in a huge open world where you are MEANT to explore new areas in no particular order is beyond silly. Overall, I think this was a failure and it's better they avoid open world games in the future if they can't actually fill their world with something interesting, not going to even address the optimization...
Just up-votting to 10 because I find unfair mostly of negative arguments like "terrible game play, graphics or optimization". Elden Ring is great, no matter how much Tree Sentinel has hurt you before.
"Added an option to turn camera auto rotate function ON/OFF" Yes, now i agree its one of the best games of all times!
No doubt this is a 10/10. amazing story, amazing gameplay, and the graphics are out of this world. i for sure sometimes have minor problems like hick-ups whem entering a new area that is not fully rendered yet. bosses are difficult but the more you play the more you understand their moves i mean, it's still a souls game, my first tbh. i've many more hours to go and every day that i have time to play after work. im hyped to hop on and defeat some bosses or just wondering around and explore the big a** world.
Wow! Two months have passed since the release and I haven't had enough of this work of art yet, let's take it in order.. (155+ h nikita47744 steam) Visual It is impossible to evaluate the work of artists and the level of designers in any way other than "great". Despite the general oppressive background that permeates the whole world, Individual locations hide a separate history and a unique atmosphere: LIBURNIA OF THE LAKES - The atmosphere of a magical lake. CAELI - Once the great plains of the stargazers, but destroyed by red Rot. ALTUS PLATEAU is the concentration of great will, the center of power, order and wealth... etc.. Only the Winter location loses its tone and uniqueness, but it also has its own identity. The main method that Miyazaki chose to influence the player is gigantism. You literally feel like a grain of sand in this vast world. Coupled with the fact that every living being in this world is trying to kill you, you literally consider yourself lost and oppressed in this world (Miazaki has achieved his goal) Gameplay A HUGE number of variations of the style of play A HUGE number of unique weapons A solid number of bosses Even more diverse movement sets Here it is worth touching on the "problem" of reuse to create absolutely unique bosses for this whole huge world would require 6-7 years of development, and the passage of this game would be delayed for 150-200h YOU JUST COULDN'T GET USED TO THIS WORLD My opinion is that familiar opponents serve as a way to test their abilities and consolidate previous "lessons" in memory There are still frankly broken builds among the builds, but the developers are working on solving this problem. Plot I am amazed by the number of "new players" who complain about his absence and incomprehensible pitch, well, welcome to Miazaki games LOL The central branch - Rennie's quest is a small masterpiece, I think Martin worked on this branch and it's good. Without taking into account Rennie's quest, the plot also looks quite holistic (If you want to become a lord, you have become one) In this case, the plot works, but it becomes easier. Additional quests are just telling a story that fits the tone of the game and contribute to the disclosure of the world, I would call them functional, although I have imbued with many stories All this together makes it possible to say that Miazaki understands perfectly well what the players want from him and he gave it to them. Huge fame and big sales will surely give the green light to the sequel. But as a first attempt into the open world 10/10
Here goes my rewiew: For me, Elden Ring is the best game I ever played. I have never been so addicted to a game. It is a game that do it good. The best of this game are the bosses and his open-world. But it has some gaps that I think that can be avoided. There are a lot of optional bosses repeated throughout the world: from catacombs to prisons. Another thing that I think that it can be avoided is the optimization of the game. Sometimes it drops from 60fps to 17 without any warning. But I need to told you that this game is worth it. It's difficult (because is a FromSoftware game) but one friend told me that this game is the easiest of all FromSoftware games. And it is true. This game have sections that are a wall (like the first-boss battle), but if you explore this huge world, you can defeat them very easy. Because you can have a big-open world to explore, invocations (you can invocate from players even a clone of you). All this players that told to another people that this game is difficult and abandoned it, are a **** Because is the most accesible FromSoftware game. Resume: Is a game that it's worth it. I finished it and how amazed I was, I ended up buying bloodborne.
I had a hard time with the game at first due to being new to souls games and the poor controls due to it really being a console port. After getting use to it and adjusting some setting this game is an absolute must play! There is so much to discover and explore that even after 4 play throughs I always find something new whether it be places, items, or npc quest lines. Decided to give it an 8 due to graphics being a little underwhelming at times, controls not being properly fit for pc, poor performance, and lack of ultrawide support. Other than that it has a good story, open world, characters, and an amazing amount of content to explore!
GOTM (Game Of The Millennium) period. An actual superb game. A fresh breath of air to the rpg genre. They fixed the fps lag and stuttering. No microtransaction ****
Better then Breath of the Wild by a long shot. From Software at its best. Some bosses are a bit unbalanced but overall it's a must play but know that, you will get your butt whopped.
I love the souls genre but this game does very little to innovate on it. Most of the enemy moves are recycled old material (but it's not really the issue), same comes with most spell animations. Cool new thing you can use the spirit bottle thing to offer momentary distraction, but most of the time that's all they can do. The biggest issue I have with this game that it's crashed in just yesterday more times than Cyberpunk did for me during 200 hours of playing it (on PC). I don't get how people like TheActMan can blindly praise game like this and then act like Cyberpunk was so unstable it took only 5 minutes before game crashed. And it wouldn't be that bad if the app just crashed, but it jams my entire computer and I lose everything I had running on background. But hey, apparently everyone decided that ELDEN RING is awesome and there's nothing terrible in it, after all it's a game where they didn't deliver more than they promised. Without crashing it would be a solid 7.5 buy in sale. The problem is also with community who blindly accepts everything as long they own previous title. I went to mention about the problems in open world game like this. Everything is isolated from one another outside of 2-3 pieces of collectibles to open an elevator or a door. But don't get me wrong, this game would be awesome 10/10 game to anyone who really-really digs into the game and it's environments and has done all throughout study of all the quests and item locations, because god damn, you're not just accidentally going to find that Lightning Spear spell in this gigantic open world, which I might add is quite crucial to Faith build. I also didn't enjoy travelling to the one Nexus location to do pretty much everything, especially when that nexus location had to always be located in the bottom of the map. There are some great ideas but some are just poorly thought out. And then there's the 10 different crafting items just to upgrade a single item to +10 as opposed to 2-3 items in past titles. And most of the crafting just feels like wasted potential. I'm pretty sure ELDEN RING 2 is going to solve a lot of these issues, but like I said, without bugs 7.5, with crashes... well this score.
Bad port + no dark souls servers. They promised to bring them back #savedarksouls
Its a barren world rehashing concepts you've seen a dozen times over for decades. The combat and class system is fun yet underdeveloped & poorly balanced. The world is completely lifeless and what few npc exists are boring & uninspiring. Graphics are dated. Reminds me of PS2 era games.
This game is amazing ! You really want to know what lays in every corner . Afraid on every boss .gives you joy on every kill . So many places to go .so many quest .so many itams sowrds shields and so on .this was a great jorny ty for this masterpiece game
For Dark Souls veterans, this game feel like coming home. I think it exceeded the hype.
If you want more accurate reviews, go look up steam reviews. you can actually see if the person has actually played it, plus how many hours he has. Don't waste your time on this cesspool.
Doesn't spoon feed you an experience. You have to work for it. I wish more games would work this way. Git Gud Scrub
The games score at time of writing (6.1) is a demonstration of how overly obsessed people have become with graphical fidelity over every other aspect of game design. Yes, this game does have some performance issues. it is also, in almost every other way, a masterful piece of art that prioritizes artistic design and quality gameplay over stuffing itself with pointless busywork. The open world itself is fantastically made, filled to the brim with quality content that exists as more than a time killer or a space filler; it's well thought out, tightly executed content. The changes that have been made to the souls formula help to elevate the game, working in tandem with the open world to provide a greater sense of exploration and discovery than any other Fromsoft game. In brief, this game is a well thought out, beautifully realized gem. It uses its open world to benefit its gameplay and its design instead of using it as an excuse for mediocre content. That gem just so happens to have a bit of dirt on it. I don't like to be confrontational, and it's completely fair to not enjoy the game. However, if some graphical issues are enough for you to give a game this well designed and beautifully realized a 0/10, please re-evaluate your metrics.
Once again I fell for the corrupt reviews of journalists who put this game 10/10. Scripted quests and dialogues break, NPCs disappear, there is no balance. You can play normally only as a magician, a pure warrior ****. Pumping so insignificantly strengthens the character that it could not be added. Worst open world I've ever seen: 1) 90% of game time is horseback riding, 2) repetitive assets of enemies, buildings, etc., 3) just not fun to explore.
Another PC release from FromSoftware that requires gamepad to play. It is absolutely and irrefutably unacceptable to sell a game with this price tag that would still require a gamepad! The arrogance to release a game without redesigning its control scheme or even changing the default button icons, showcases how low customers expectations are . The majority might give this fake product a pass but I will not. The game gets a zero because it requires a gamepad to play. Sell the game for 2$ so I can buy a gamepad then.
**** The game boils down to pressing a button in a very limited timeframe. Designed to piss you off. Save your nerbes. Dont play it
The sheer amount of content that this game has is absolutely mind-blowing. Definitely a modern-day masterpiece. The gameplay is top-tier, which doesn't hold your hands through the fights, and forces you to actually get skilled enough to be able to beat your opponents, since you get punished every time you make mistakes (which is absolutely intended, as it makes you learn from them to make you better). The open-world is one of the best ever created, which gives you freedom to do whatever you please and approach the story and side-quests in whichever order you want. The visuals are pretty breathtaking as well. Definitely not perfect though, with clunky and poor jump mechanics, and a few bugs, glitches and exploits here and there, which hopefully will get fixed in the later updates.
This will probably be my go-to open world RPG for a long time. With so many reasons to replay (builds, affiliations, active balancing) this is probably the only game I've felt comfortable paying full price for in a while.
After 300 hours of blood, sweat, and tears that included some of the most challenging fights I’ve ever fought, and innumerable surprises, there are still bosses that I left on the table, secrets that I’ve yet to uncover, sidequests that I missed out on, tons of weapons, spells, and skills that I’ve never used. And this is all on top of PVP and cooperative play that I’ve barely been able to scratch the surface of. Throughout it all, while the fundamentals of combat haven’t changed much from what we’ve seen before, the enormous variety of viciously designed enemies and the brutal but surmountable bosses have brought its battles to a new level. Even with all the threads, I didn’t manage to tug on my first playthrough (of what I’m sure will be several), what I was treated to can easily be held amongst the best open-world games I’ve ever played.
I'm aware that most people that gave this game a 10/10 are fanboys all the way. It's just not reasonable, even more, if you played the games that came this month alone (Sifu, Horizon) u just can't nail a 10/10 on this game, is unfair for the rest of the developers that put a lot of effort into their products. Sifu had way smoother gameplay and animations and Horizon feels like it is 5 years in advance in terms of visuals, the difference is gigantic. So what I think the game did good and bad: Good: + World design + Exploration + Art design + Variety of enemies in the world + And let's say the level design Bad: - Graphics (textures, lighting, shadows, etc, feels like a 2014 title, not 2022 one) - Mocap, lip-sync (insanely bad for a AAA developer) - Story (super generic, vague, diluted, the dialogs and characters are super cringe) - Clunky controls - Animations - Sound effects (again super generic) - 60Hz cap?? in 2022? - Optimization, stuttering (for pc at least and for now, maybe it will be fixed with a patch)
The game is difficult, though unlike souls titles, this one allows you to play at your own pace, skipping anything you find too difficult until you feel up to the challenge. The world is a 100% free roam open world, so you can basically go wherever you want from minute 1. You can also be whatever you want, even the craziest builds can be viable if you know how to exploit them properly. A big fuss was made about the performance, but my computer is below the minimum requirements and I don't even set everything to low, yet still have a stable 30fps. So... I really don't know what all the fuss is about. Another thing people apparently don't like is the storytelling. But this aspect is no different from previous souls games, just more massive and dense with content and lore. Overall, it's a unique experience and I can't remember being so immersed in a game since Skyrim. As with the previous games in the series, you may feel that the game is not "that good" at the beginning, but if you manage to persevere through this funny torture until the end, you will realise that you have been playing a masterpiece for the last 100 hours.
Love this game! Ultimate souls game with INSANE beautiful world full of new stuff to explore and find out all by yourself! Game has multiple mechanics u can try its just there its letting u do it how u want to defeat it and has like 6 endings u can do by your actions/quests/idk am still finding out :D. I played like 200hrs till i defeated it but still i have a lot to explore so. If u want a game that lets u do whatever u want and like u want it just there :) just writing this cuz many kids dont know how to play this game cuz todays games are just so dum :D anyway :D love it cant wait for dlc :) just play it by yourself :) love u fromsoft
The game runs well in my 4year old laptop I can't even belive people is crying about 60 fps when it's all you need, it takes the best of what they have done and brings even more. I will give it a 9.6 out 10 but 10 is the nearest. I still belive it's not a game for everyone but it's very enjoyable if you give it a try!
Masterpiece in making... game should be like eldenring ,more to game play than money ..
This game is for people with big brain. It's not for people who need hand holding. And yes you always play as a cleric..always. The story is the reason it gets a 9, and the bugs. Jesus fix the bugs. Furthermore the hacking is bad at times. Oh and people with stuttering, get a better pc honestly
I'm in a delicate position here. FromSoft has consistently delivered fantastic experiences for the past few years, and here's Elden Ring, a game everybody calls a masterpiece that's Dark Souls' formula distilled and perfected for an open world. This must be the BGE, right? Umm, no. It's not FromSoft's best game (still Sekiro, and it'll be for a while I'm guessing). It's not even their second best game. But it's still pretty good, because it's a FromSoft game. I noticed these times tend to exaggerate the quality of open world games with a slightly different take on it than the others. First there was BOTW, then there was RDR2, and now ER. I'm not exactly sure why, open world games have a lot of trouble maintaining interest over time. For reference, I just finished the game with 100 hours under my belt, my character is level 151 and beaten every single boss. Pros : - FromSoft knows how to make gameplay feel weighty, impactful, and that didn't change with Elden Ring. I love their animations, the variety of builds available. The weapons, the spells, the enemies. They look and feel great to use and fight. - The art and design of the Lands Between is incredible. They know how to make you drool over landscapes, towering buildings, or even a swamp (yes, another one). I threw out a few "Wows" during my run, and that very rarely happens. - The OST doesn't deliver as much impact this time around, but it's still a great soundtrack. - The Bosses. they're FromSoft's biggest argument, and they were my greates fear when I started my game. Then I met a certain Omen, and I knew my fears were unjustified. There are problems, but the big, intimidating, rage-inducing bosses are here, and they're great. - Flexibility and accessibility. FromSoft understood that running for 5 minutes every time you want to try a boss again was not fun. Spirit ashes are an interesting mechanic for newcomers, the stakes make repeated trials less tedious, there are more sites of grace and they're less isolated. This makes going through some zones less of a chore and more of an actual challenge. Cons : - The Open World. Everybody praises this like it's the second coming of Breath of the Wild, but I found it very bland in its structure. Once the discovery phase fizzles out (as nice as it genuinely was), I just understood the structure and that it wouldn't change. Catacombs, mines and grottos are always pretty much the same. - Recycled content. This I'm really not happy with. Remember that super cool boss you fought once in the starting area? Remember how fun it was? Here, here's five of the same guy, hurdled together either as a boss fight or just random mobs in a dungeon. I'm not kidding, out of the 170 bosses in the game, only 15 are unique, all others are used multiple times, and sometimes they come in twos or threes, which is honestly a very cheap trick. - Balance. This is a byproduct of the open world structure. It's not up to the player to set a "base" difficulty in FS games, it's kind of their thing. They set up obstacles for you that seem insurmountable and you manage to overcome them as best you can. Except that in ER, you can pass them in a GTA equivalent where the game basically does all the work alone (The Mimic+10 summon can solo bosses), or you do your best to fight against mechanics designed for the case where the player is actually in GTA mode and therefore you're in for the hardest ennemies ever in an FS game. And let's not talk about me playing normally and getting to every zone with 20 more levels than advised: the devs response? Make everything oneshot my character past a certain point, even though I invested 50 points in vigor. - Poor servers. I mean, if you're gonna have servers that bad, don't force people out of the game each time they fail... It happened to me a few times during boss fights, let me tell you I really wasn't in the mood to play after that. Anyway, not the best nor worst thing to come out of FromSoft, I'm waiting for the DLC that'll hopefully correct some of the aspects I talked about, FS are known for their great DLCs.
Keep crying yourselves to sleep over elden ring, 10000/10 game, don't listen to **** haters
Not mentioning PC performance, since the game itself worked okay. However, Nothing better than previous Dark Soul series, only added with some feocked-up open-world. Well if that is to be called as an open-world, the semi open-world in God of War 4 can be called as a galaxy. Feocked-up level-scaling, hugely disappointing battle speed and character movements. And no mission tracker at all? I mean, they COULD make some option to on & off the tracker, just like AC Odyssey. All I could do is to hopelessly wonder some giant plain until got crushed by some **** Played 80 minutes, and I still think it was a waste of time. Sooooo curious how other people like this dung.
A lot to say. Stunning experience for me as a casual player. Definetly worth to give a shot.
Just forget about the AC and Call of Duty players tears. This game is SOLID.
Its good, huge content, best soul game by far. Variety of maps, enemies and fun for 80+h. Performance is **** though, not optimized, fps drops, stutters and more but I try to ignore that since the game is really good.
There I thought I will play this game after a hard day's work. BUT NOOOO, this game is going to stress you out even more than real-life problems. Screw this game!
there is dificulty than this. if the first mini boss takes me 5 tries than you failed to make a playable game. you filled it with to much information and it made it impossible to chose a class. why not instead try this dont be stupid and add a setting called difficulty easy medium or hard thats literally it but no you chose the 2nd difficulty option of lets make this class bassed system impossible for anyone whos never played a dark souls game to understand so instead they just google it
Amazing! Already played 90 hours yet and I can't stop :) Haven't played sooo much any single game for a long time
The menu's give you the controller buttons not the PC buttons to push. This is a half-baked game which has not finished its PC port. The gamer unfriendly features and game failings are too many to list. The fraud critics have been lying over and over about this game.
Thought it was boring. Game did not motivate me enough to play the game. Not interesting at all. Very bland.
I'm changing my review here. I gave it 7 and a pretty crappy review because I was frustrated and irritated by it's game play. It's definitely hard and takes getting used to. But if you do get into it (like I finally did) you will find it's full of wonder and interesting things. Combat is great and the enemies are very unique. Can't stop playing now.
47.5 Hours in and my file corrupted. I can't even start a new file it just wont let me in. It was a bad pc launch. Waste of $80 for me
This overhyped stuff that blatantly bought out all the gaming media (as if they count anything anymore) has one unique feature: abusing of the countless glitches. This stuff is messy, glitchy, buggy af and has constant balance issues. Bosses are either overpowered or totally powerless, with no inbetween. I'm enjoying how at lv 18 I'm doing stuff for lv50 by getting bosses stuck in the terrain, or making their AI bugged. OH, RIGHT, THIS IS THE PC VERSION ASWELL: if you want to play with a GTX mobile graphic card (more than capable to obtain 30-40 fps at 720p and 900p) you need to PATCH THE GAME, making it unavailable for online play due to needing to bypass easy anticheat. You need to CHEAT to OPEN the game ON YOUR GAMING LAPTOP. In 2022. What a disgrace for a "10/10" game. Stuff is ludicrously bad and people giving 10 are just bots or underage kids, that's my opinion.
+ souls combat with all the bells and whistles + many viable builds despite the meme ones being popular + best graphics yet in the series and great character creator + lots of content to play through, 100+ hours is the norm + the catacomb level design is surprisingly creative and fun for dungeon lovers like myself ----- - Worst boss and enemy combat design. Blatant Input reading, delayed attacks, endless boss combos and unnecessarily short punish windows. Whether easy or hard, it's simply never satisfying to defeat an enemy. - Heavy asset reuse. Every cave and landmark is exactly like all the other ones in their category. Every catacomb, cave and ruin looks exactly the same. Most bosses and enemies are reused too. - Terrible storyline. Hard to process main plot with an abstract, irrelevant twist (Radagon & Marika), and npc quests that always reward the player with utterly depressing and futile outcomes. It feels better to NOT do them! - The open world is really just for looks. It's a wasteland with points of interest, generic caves, catacombs and ruins with mostly useless loot. Combat is all you really have to look forward to. Try not to miss radiant quests from Bethesda. At least those were better than nothing. - Uncreative armor design and lack of variety for gear. A lot of sets are thematically redundant or look alike, when they don't look plain disappointing. - Weapon and spell variety really makes sense in NG+ only. At a first playthrough you'll be likely stuck to the same couple spells and weapons due to the upgrade system and the best ones being confined to late game. - The damage scaling can be harsh unless you're told to stack VIT and defense bonuses early on, and even then it's not pleasant to die immediately to every couple rats you failed to notice in time.
Other than graphic improvements there is nothing new elden ring offers. if making a hard game was a skill we should be giving 100 points to all huge strategy games
On it's own, Elden Ring is a *good* game - tons to do and see, and the exploration is usually rewarding. If this is your first Souls/FromSoft game, you'll likely have a blast if you can persevere and learn the mechanics. However, if you're coming from other FromSoft games, Elden Ring is a massive downgrade in terms of combat fluidity. Somehow they managed to make movement and combat clunkier and less responsive than Dark Souls 3 - wtf happened? Also, the general boss and mob encounters in Elden Ring are mostly terrible. Endless combos that always break you out of poise, so much that trying to do a pure STR build (though not impossible) is insanely difficult, compared to magic which FS have completely dropped the ball in and made super overpowered - super rapid casting + keeping distance + constant FPS. Though the world is massive, most of it feels like filler - dungeons and catacombs are copypastes and even the bosses are copy pastes with zero thought about balancing. To me, Elden Ring is the Fallout 4 of FromSoft games - in trying to make a Souls game that is open world and accessible, they've produced a mediocre Souls game with a mediocre open world. Buy this game if you want, I don't care. I just don't think it lives up to the "masterpiece" and 10/10 hype. FromSoft has gotten complacent and lazy and no longer understand how to make genuine difficulty without resorting to lazy design.
Awful boss design and a disappointing combat system, their last game Sekiro did better, this game should be called Dark Souls 4.
Little to no roleplay, forced builds and difficulty based on unplayability. 'Best PC game' for a game with a terrible port is a joke.
Its massive $ bombing for this game. Its not worth any money. Its another dark solus print with new ****
This game presents a lot of options and tools, gives the player agency to find out for themselves how to best advance. It respects the player in a way we're not used to anymore. Some people sadly can't break their conditioning and whish the game would hold their hand. That's not what Elden Ring is about. But other players can be summoned to fulfil that purpose. The world is alien and embroiled in its downfall. It doesn't concern itself with the player, which makes it so much more fun to explore. I haven't had this sense of wonder exploring since Morrowind.
Not bad reminds me to 2001-2013 GTA 3+4+5 and 2018 Red Dead Redemption Two kinda sounds 2006-2015 Edmonton Rush tho.
I'm sure people here who are complaining about bad graphics and boring open world are people paid by corporation jealous of Elden Ring success. Exploring an open world without any marker is so much fun, you can just unleash your curios heart and submit to it. I haven't tried Breath of the Wild before, so this is my first time experiencing TRUE open world. The world of Elden Ring full of danger and gorgeous view. In this kind of open world, how can you still care about graphics fidelity, art direction and style trumps graphics fidelity anytime. Elden Ring bosses are hard, harder than any souls game before. I too, died countless times to Margit, Godrick and the other. For some who think the combat is unfair and cheap, seriously, go watch youtuber Ongbal. How could it be cheap and unfair when ALL bosses attack has been proven to be dodgeable or parryable. Just don't give up, learn the game mechanics, learn from your mistake, use your imagination and come up with a plan. The game won't handhold you for anything, not the combat, not the quest and not even for the story. If you want to know the lore and story, then explore, talk to npcs, defeat bosses, read item description... or just watch Youtube. If you can't even handle that, you might as well go back to playing Barbie, here's a link for you ****
Absolutely beautiful world full of treacherous beasts to explore with an amazing community to help you on your treacherous journey
Once you defeat the area bosses, you essentially become locked out of multiplayer. Worst game mechanic I have EVER seen. Adds no value to the gameplay, but only serves to irritate the players who spent money on this garbage
Massapiece. this is the peak of From Software. Well, along with Bloodborne. Just imagining a Bloodborne 2 with this kind of open world gets me titillated.
My first FromSoftware Game that I have beaten. For me it was the best Open World experience in addition to epic Boss-fights that I have ever played. A Game that will make history.
EDIT: The latest patch has fixed the stuttering for me, as well as made some important balance changes so I have changed my rating from 9 to 10. I have just finished the game for the second time, once as a full caster build and once as a full strength build, so I think I can finally say that yes, I definitely do recommend Elden Ring. This is without a doubt FROM's most accessible game ever, you can tell they've put a lot of effort into the new player experience. They have also added a ton of quality of life changes which are very welcome even to a veteran player. That's not to say the game is easier though, because it's not, and some bosses are without a doubt some of the most challenging they've ever created. The move to open world was risky but I would say it paid off for the most part, although the game being so open and especially vertical did make for some frustrating moments when you were left thinking "how the hell do I get over there?", and sometimes the answer was extremely convoluted. The gameplay feels fresher than ever, with more ways to play and more viable builds. Magic has never felt so good, even a little too good at times. You also have weapon ashes which are like weapon special moves which add a ton of customisation to your build. On top of all that you have Incarnations which are like spells but more holy (faith) focused. There are many end-game builds which are all very different and all viable, which gives the game a lot of replayability. And speaking of replayability, you'll almost certainly want to do at least a second playthrough as you will miss a ton unless you're following a guide, it's impossible not to as the game has so much content that is off the beaten patch. So far I have been extremely positive but the game isn't perfect and the issues need to be brought up. First and foremost the game suffers from stuttering, regardless of your hardware, this is a fundamental game issue and you will experience it (whether you'll notice it or not is a different matter). If you are sensitive to performance problems you will definitely notice this issue as it's very prevalent in certain areas. The online co-op is also massively broken, you will be met with "unable to summon co-operator" errors all the time, it doesn't work more often than it does, so if you're planning to play with friends or just like to summon help from random players you may have a bad time. The later portion of the game is also a bit of a let-down, with several of the bosses being overwhelming difficult, as a veteran I struggled, so if this is your first time playing a FROM game just prepare yourself for the fact the difficultly dials up to 11 very rapidly towards the end, more so than any other FROM game. I also found the final boss extremely underwhelming, I won't spoil it but it's not a fun fight IMO. For the most part the game is a massive success, the amount of content is unbelievable, the world they've created is gorgeous, thematically the bosses are incredible and it has never been easier to jump into a FROM title. Most of the issues can be fixed, but only time will tell if they are. The bottom line is, if you're a fan of FROM games you will love Elden Ring, and if you're not, there has never been a better time to jump in as a new player.
This game completely encapsulates everything that FromSoft have been incorporating into their games from the start. The game offers challenge after challenge while giving the players multitudes of different ways to approach each one. There is a large variety in play styles that simply could not have existed in past titles such as: stealth play, horseback combat, and jumping with aerial attacks. This step forward in the souls formula also introduces exploration on a whole new level. For the first time a FromSoft game is completely open world. The only time you will see a loading screen after booting the game up is during teleports and after each assured death. The world is vast and beautiful, full of hidden secrets, and littered with enemies and bosses to fight for some sweet loot or that dopamine dump that we all search for when overcoming such great challenges. This has been my favorite entry into the SoulsBorne franchise and I hope that this game can show the other AAA studios and publishers that making games more about set pieces and holding our hands with constant markers and unimportant dialogue only serve to create uninspired and boring worlds. Just because games are getting larger does not mean that they are getting better. A small environment with a lot to feel invested in makes for a much better experience than a massive world with nothing but busy work. FromSoft have seemingly taken this concept and turned a massive world into a wonderful experience by adding multitudes of activities and places for us to invest our time and efforts into.
QUANTITY OVER QUALITY Meme Ring, id est, Dark Souls 3 with a horse, copy paste enemies, boring cringy choir music, only 8 unique boss fights, and broken overpowered ashes of war for the CASULS. Carefully crafted by From Software to cater to the mindless masses who are blind sheep and bought this LIE because some overrated writers name was attached to it and who cannot see that **** is a one-trick-pony who makes the same game over and over again. At least it has no microtransactions. All in all this game would have been better if some of the content was cut because if you are going to buy this prepare to fight the same copy pasted bosses over and over again. From fanbois are idiots lol.
only tryhard loser "enjoy" this game (you lying to yourself if you say you enjoying the game) go get monster hunter game because it seems like the people that make mh aware that not all gamer are tryhard loser
This game is amazing! This is my first ever Soulsborne game and since about a week after launch I have 275.2 hours full playtime. Entering into the open world for the first time feels very fresh and exciting, there is so much to do, and so many minor details. Just riding on your horse to get from one place to another may take forever because you'll find battles between two factions you might want to get involved with, an enemy caravan containing weapons or armor walking from one place to another, an NPC with a full-blown questline, a dungeon, and so much more! The boss design is incredible with a whopping 165 total bosses(including unique). Even while exploring an empty area you can get invaded by an NPC and have to take it on or run away. They did the best they could to keep the player engaged and doing stuff while playing. If I could edit between decimals, I would go 9.6/10 I read most of the bad reviews on here and they all are talking about stuff that isn't even true. I'll correct some of the bad review's review flaws below because those people clearly haven't played enough to actually know what they're talking about. One of the bad reviews that I saw a lot of was graphics. The graphics are amazing at first and for most of the game, however there are a few texture flaws when blood is splattered onto the ground, pieces of the ground flying up from it getting hit by an attack, etc. Overall the graphics are amazing, but they could have done slightly better with them. The second most popular bad review I saw was about the story being awful. First of all, the story is new and unlike any other game we have ever seen before. The story is unique, its engaging, and it was written by George R. R. Martin! You're telling me that George R. R. Martin, the guy who wrote GAME OF THRONES, Is bad at writing a story? That is toxic and untrue. Overall, amazing game, totally recommend.
I got my ass beat by radahn for four hours straight. It was pretty fun. Game's fps dies during the more intense parts, but then again, I am running it on a 1050.
Almost perfect minus some slight frame stutters that have happened maybe 5 times in about 50 hours of play.
A more accessible Dark souls game. Personally felt like the sense of discovery and reward were more tangible than other open world games. Still not a game for everyone, but for those that it is for are in for a real good time.
Maybe I'll give it another chance in two or three years. The game wasn't ready to land on PC and, as far as I can tell, not even on consoles. From a gameplay point of view it adds little and gets boring after a few hours. From a technical point of view it is poorly optimised despite being far from being at the top compared to the potential that PC gaming offers today. The publisher has invested more in marketing than in development resources, creating the usual mass of toxic baby fanboys.
Really good game the only thing wrong with it on pc is the occasional frame stuttering.
Banger Game, at the start you have to set the key binds that they fit your style (on PC at least if you are playing with mouse and keyboard) but then you are good to go, and I can tell you it is the best game you will play this year
The Evolution of Open World Game Design. I’ll start right to the point: Elden Ring is an excellent game, but the PC version is not the best it should be, simple as that. The PC version of Elden Ring needs a bit of love and care: it’s a shame that, as of the day of posting this review, the game still suffers from shader chaching issues, or possibly asset streaming problems…maybe both; whatever it is, for some PC setups and users the problem is bigger and more noticeable than for others. For me…it’s alright, because it seems the more I play, the less frequently said issues occur, and overall the experience is not tarnished much by it, for me : ) Now, on the actual bad design aspects in the PC version: the Menu Navigation is a pain, because it has some hardcoded keys, like Q, E, etc.; Sometimes we’ll need to press Q to go back a menu, while in other occasions it’s just the expected ESC key. That is poor design, and lack of proper testing with people used to play PC games. Secondly, Camera Movement and Target Selection are awful on Mouse and Keyboard. The target lock and camera reset actions are bound to the same key, with no option to decouple them, for starters, and idem for the dash and dodge/roll keys, same crap. With both my DualShock 4 and Dualsense Controllers, the game plays as expected from a gamepad, no way to officially show Playstation buttons, though (only with mods), a minor issue anyway. I understand certain developers from other companies / games have been publicly criticizing Elden Ring lack of proper User Experience (“UX”, if you will), but that’s not exactly what I’m talking about here, or at least not in the same manner: those developers are a disgrace to their respective companies and should rethink their words next time…because their games aren’t exactly the prime examples of marvelous UI/UX design, either, I’ve played all of them, I know. There’s stuff to be improved for this PC version but, with that said…yeah, what’s left after going past those issues is an incredible video game that teaches very important lessons in Open World Design, which I hope some other studios learn from and get inspired by. This concept has always been there and used in some video game franchises, in the past, which we have now seen evolve, in some of their recent titles as well. What Elden Ring does, is just taking all the great aspects of their previous games, and expand it into this great open world they’ve crafted for us. I’m not a veteran of the Souls Series at all, but I’ve played all kinds of games since the 90s, and I don’t feel a game being less hand-holding on me is a problem…it just makes me feel more free to do whatever I want and, If I mess up and die…I die, and learn, then repeat but, in the process, I have fun, because no matter what I do…I’m learning, exploring, discovering. I think this design fits perfectly for such an Open World game, it does, it works and I like it. On the Performance side of things, the game is locked at 60 FPS, which is another aspect I’d like to see improved, but not as crucial as the other poorly designed stuff previously mentioned; More importantly, frame-pacing feels off, especially because the game’s FPS limiter is not good enough, and also the game locks itself at 60 Hz on Fullscreen, so I recommend playing in Borderless if your screen supports higher Refresh Rates. I’ve been playing at 1620p DLDSR, on a Ryzen 5 3600 and RTX 3060 Ti, and FPS are normally as close to 60 as possible, sometimes in the low 50s in certain demanding areas, all while at Maximum Settings. I’m eager to see what Ray Traced effects they implement on a future update, because currently stuff like the SSAO and Shadows are quite poor in places, especially SSAO has this while halo / overlay around objects that are also close to a water surface, and Shadows flicker quite a lot, especially distant shadows / from vegetation. The Story requires a lot of exploring and talking to different important characters to even begin to comprehend the basics of what’s happening, but I love that because it makes me want to play more, and leaves a good part to the user’s interpretation. There’s not a lot of voice acting, compared to other games, but the actors do a great job with their performances. And the Graphics, while not being the most photo-realistic ones we’ve ever seen…well who cares? When the game looks so gorgeous anyway, because its artistic design and atmosphere are really top notch. So many areas in the game leave me speechless, with how beautiful they look, and I wish this game had an official Photo Mode…oh, please, we need one (I know, there’s a good one with third party tools, but this should be a standard feature in these huge games). An easy 10/10 if the issues ever get fixed, for now…a bit lower from me, but still an excellent game nonetheless.
Nearly Perfect Before I get into my review I would like to say I killed all the bosses, found 99% if not all items, and discovered every inch of every location; That just so happens to equal out to 300 hours for my first playthrough. I also want to note I've played all other FromSoftware titles except for Demon's Souls with a combined playtime of over 1400hrs. Praises Just as with all other Souls series games, Elden Ring has a very beautiful and varied world. Combat feels much more polished compared to Dark Souls III taking elements from Dark Souls, Bloodborne, and Sekiro to create the best feeling and most fair(for the most part) combat. Enemies, bosses, and NPCs are familiar yet also unique in design and in battle. It feels like every playstyle is actually viable in Elden Ring which cannot be said for past titles. I also want to mention the ash summons for adding something new and fun to boss battles. And the last big thing is the inclusion of horseback riding and combat, really didn't expect it to turn out as good as it did. Complaints •Performance I can understand a couple performance issues here and there, but Elden Ring launched in a frustrating state with memory leaks, stuttering, and CRASHING; Also doesn't want to close out without using task manager. •Bugs The game also suffers from some pretty annoying bugs such as certain questlines and an ending being locked off all because one NPC breaks, clipping through the floor and falling to your death during a boss battle, and key items not dropping from certain bosses. •Summoning/PvP Friendly players can't be summoned after you defeat the story boss in that area, this is straight up stupid given that this is an open world game. Only work around is red summons which disables the ability of invasions. •Lackluster Loot Throughout the entire game from start to finish I could not believe the same developer of all these past Souls games made this GIANT world with so much **** loot. You see a hidden little cove with a purple item guarded by a few tough enemies only for it to be a godd*mn ARTERIA LEAF. TRASH. •Inconsistent Difficulty Bosses and enemies go from being difficult to almost being one shot without even leveling up. Everything is a cakewalk and then you run across Malenia which easily tops the list of hardest bosses in all FromSoftware games, the final boss is a joke in comparison. Inconsistent overall. •EAC & Cheaters Even with the addition of Easy Anti-Cheat cheaters are still very much able to weasel their mangy *sses into PvP. •Open World This is my biggest complaint with Elden Ring. I just couldn't help but notice how most of my complaints with the game wouldn't have existed if the game was built more linear like the past Souls games. I feel like the focus on making the game open world caused less of a polished Souls experience overall. The world just feels too big and empty in a number of expansive areas, the garbage loot makes this much worse. Conclusion With all those complaints I still like the game regardless because it fits the Soulsborne mold. I give Elden Ring an 8 out of 10 Recommendations Bloodborne(10/10), Dark Souls III(9/10), Sekiro
Masterpiece, GOTY, that's everything I have to say, except for those playing on potatos and rating under 5, you all are tagging this game for trash, but look at your PC's they're about to explode, exclude your self from rating if you have an old PC. I have an RTX 3060ti, upload your devices , you all are complaining and want to play a 2022 game with a 2010 Graphics Card C'Mon dude XD. Best of Souls Like Game ever made.
Absolute great game, not a 10 in my eyes because of the performance issues, even with a 3050 I get some stuttering sometimes and so far, 2 crashes. But still it takes everything good from the souls series and puts them together in a big dense open world, which isn't small btw. With tons of things to do. Amazing game. Worth every penny.
An absolute masterpiece. Adictive gameplay, Innovative with just the right amount of FromSoft tradition to make you feel at home. If you're new to Fromsoftware games this is the perfect game to start from.
Severely disappointing. Bad main bosses (perhaps even worse than DS2), botched endgame, tons of recycled content that makes this game feel like Assassin's Creed. At least the open world was really fun to explore until mountaintops
To all the people that gave up on this game. You missed out on one of the craziest rides of your life. Every hour my mind is blown by something that happens. Cant stop playing it.
Playing this game with a Mouse and Keyboard is beyond challenging - as a new player to Soulsborne games this made me suffer quite a lot. the open world is amazing but u never get a clue what to do... you have to look at everything and since many players lay their own informations above notes that explain some of the story its annoying to get to it. The gameplay is challenging, thats for sure, and depending on what class you play you cant progress well. According to others you are able to play through everything on lvl 1 if ur skill lvl is high enough. so - elden ring is lacking in story, is confusing, with a big but kinda bland empty world that makes no sense (crusaders beeing richt next to a barbarian camp for example). If you like soulsborne games - well go for it. If you can look past the horrible way this game is played - go for it.. If you dont want story, just want to lvl up and kill harder enemies - go for it - or play Minecraft. To me - this is not worth my time.
- This is literally a reskin of Dark Souls 3. Which Dark Souls 3, by the way, was a reskin of Dark Souls. This company has been making the same game for over a decade now and they're getting away with it. - This game is too long. If you've every played a Souls game, then you've already played this game. Same combat, same weapons, same mechanics. Now take Dark Souls and imagine it's twice as long. Games can be long if they successfully introduce new ideas to spice up the gameplay. But here you've already seen it al before; there's next to nothing new here. Add to that the recycled bosses and enemies, and you'll quickly grow bored - The bosses in this game are balanced around mimics. That is, summoning an npc to help you. If you do not summon, bosses will be so hard and unfair you'll think it is the hardest Souls game yet. It you do summon, you'll think it's the easiest. I don't like Co-op play and am disappointed it has been forced here
Wonderful game. I die constantly. But every now and then, I get to win. Seen people complain that you need a controller. I'm 30+ hours in and never touched anything other than my trusty kb/mouse. I find the game is more immersive and runs better without the online component turned on. I don't need messages telling me to finger, but whole or fort, night? in the middle of all the spooky atmosphere and oppressive enemies and I don't have to have them.
Please read all of this before downvoting. This generation of gaming as a whole has been killed by the tryhards and greed. If you want the truth this game reflects a lot that is wrong with this generation of gaming. Cheap flights of sweaty mechanics like dodge rolling, parry, and jumping. Fanboys are a big problem with games as well. They defend it being a sweaty game as an excuse to (get good) but it is so hypocritical because these are the same gamers crying multiplayer games are too sweaty. The problem isn't the difficulty it's the game and this generation. The game really isn't that hard or even takes much skill to beat. It's just cheap and unfair combat. All just one hit kills with cartoonish animations with a slight delay so if you dodge roll it hits you anyways. It's just frustrating not hard or even takes skill to beat it. It just takes patience and mental health loss to beat it. This is reflected in this generation of gamers in multiplayer as well ( Jumping and dashing and cheap tactics to win). That is why no one likes multiplayer games. Multiplayer games die in less than a few months because no one likes playing against unfair AI or players. This is what divides this generation in gaming because they are hypocrites and want to call games competitive and a sport but don't want rules or sportsmanship in games and want to use exploits and use cheap tactics to win like (scuff controllers, dashing, and jumping). There is a reason why sports have rules like football and basketball to prevent ppl from cheating and exploiting in unfair (AI or players) ways to win and be un-sportsman-like. If it is a sport and it's all about the competition then get rid of cheap tactics/boss fights, exploits, and unfair fights and make some rules. If it is not a sport then why are we making games so tedious and playing like our lives depend on them? ( I beat the game on new game plus and level 167) but I had no other games to play and wanted to give it a fair shot). I feel like I gave this review a good score for how I feel and others feel. It is a mixed review for a sweaty game that could have been great if they focused more on the performance and RPG and toned down the sweaty feel of the game. Not to put in an easy mode but an out-of-the-box RPG-like combat system rather than dark souls combat system.
If the game actually played well and optimized this would have been an 9/10, but when you release a game which is basically unplayable because you keep getting annoyed by stutters and bad optimization, I have to rate it accordingly. Fix the game and I'll change this review to its rightful metric. It's been out for a month now and we have heard nothing from FromSoftware.
One of the best games ever made. There are practically no real problems, almost all criticism is purely subjective.
Amazing game and is my Goty, it’d be a 10 if it wasn’t for the stuttering if they fix that, solid 10/10
Graphics are awesome. Jumping is nice. Glitches, bugs, lazy So so so so much recycled content, especially after litterally the beginning portion of the map Pc port awful 60fps max, instructions not even translated Bosses glitch and ive fallen through the map so many times Even saving the game is a hastle and the game loves to crash. Dont even bother trying to use the targeting Clipping, animations kinda bad example : mimic blob things, seems like a last minute ,"we need to finish this ememy" , lets just put a blob around an attack animation and seriously not try at all. Wanna play with a friend? Good luck, no cross platform, and trying is such a hastle its not worth it pllluuusss whoevee gets transported doenst get the progess. Feels like a half developed game got released for a cash grab and toxic gamers jumped on to the scene, "you are just bad", common features dont exist, a quest log for example. The community is cancer. Go bang your head on a wall learning how to defeat each boss or google it.
A love letter to fans of classic game difficulty, a masterpiece in subtle story telling and world building. Secrets around every corner. Excellent Boss design.
I don't understand why people are review bombing a game because their computer can't run it. If your computer is dated, then consider buying it on console or upgrading. If your expecting a brand new AAA open world game which is HUGE to run on a baked potato, you need to look somewhere else. If you don't want to shell out for a console or a GPU upgrade then look into something like GEFORCE NOW. It has become my favourite game of all time and has the best soundtrack I've ever had the fortune to listen to. I wish I got the deluxe edition.
Its the same game fromsoft was done 6 times before. But not even the best combat of the bunch, because in this one you need to use the lock on like a scrub since most enemies have broken hitboxes and animations to the point of just hitting you through walls, unlike Dark Souls 2 where you could play the whole thing without it. The graphics are good but the vegetation and skybox feels dated, the open spaces are a good change and the map is HUGE, everything else is just another coat of paint on a good game that can feel tired if you arent in the mood. Doesnt supports ultrawide resolutions natively, thats unacceptable, the PC community has to finish the porting for lazy devs like this, its has occasional stutters and even crashes but very rarely. Its definetly my favorite game of the franchise so far but its held back by the complete lack of innovation in the combat, like gore and damage models, being able to move sideways without the stupid lock on, being able to free aim while playing as a mage or an archer, they did something way back with Demon Souls and never tried making it better.
When I first started playing this game, I had performance issues such as invisible enemies and dropping frame rates, but I think that was all due to my potato PC not meeting the minimum requirements lol. Thankfully all it took was a mod and I was good to go. Though granted with the mod on I had to play offline, but overall I still think Elden Ring is a great game with great combat and even greater world design. I think it shows when the developers put a lot of effort and passion into making it by the absurd amount of detail in the open world. Personally I think this game deserves all the praise it got.
Don't expect an open world full of things, this is a soul game, so you'll die a lot and the "open world" will be full of tough monsters/knights to farm in order to level up. Unfortunately, you'll have to rely on guides to find what to do at the beginning. The game is good, but certainly not goty! Graphics are disappointing for ps5/xbox series x, there's a lot of bugs. Gameplay is archaic. Fan of the Souls serie will love it, but again isn't for everyone and is certainly not as good as all the reviews says.
Amazing game, Amazing gameplay and story, great graphics. Only low reviews are from people that mad at the game because they’re trash.
Outstanding ARPG with minor interface design flaws. Positive: - Great gameplay loop - Enemy design - Dungeon design - Battle system and horse riding battles - Coop/Multiplayer naturally integrated - Satisfying diffuclty - Strong melancholic atmosphere Negative: - Story introduction lacks production values - UI has minor handling issues
This is my first "souls game" experience and i did fall in addiction with this game. Game design, combat and atmosphere were phenomenal. beautiful and interesting world to explore. Thrilling fights and enemies. only issues i have with this game, or rather what would i add is some sort of journal to track quests, even if it held almost no descriptions on quest, but rather from whom i am on quest. most quests dont tell you what to do or where to go at all, at some instances, i couldnt even figure out that i have taken a quest. Keyboard - many people complain that you need a gamepad for this game, in my experience that couidn't be further from the truth. i completed whole game on keyboard and mouse - but had to change some setting from default ones for better comfort performance - this game ran smoothly on my ryzen5 3600 with RX580 on 2k res with med/high setting with around 60 fps at all times, that was also lovely
finally after soo long, another Masterpiece from fromsoftware, i used to think they peaked with bloodborne but they proved me wrong
Elden Ring is the best video-game i've ever played in 35 years, Don't believe the hatred user-critics, most of them never played Elden Ring for sure.^^ My Playtime: 218.4 hours, achievements: 22 Thank you From Software! Thank you for this open-world masterpiece!
What an amazing game, i just got the Platinum Achievement for it and i love every single bit of this game except for the technical part. That's why i give it only a 9.0
And other dark souls Without any changes. you have to go a looooooong way again and again in order to Encounter a boss? I don't have this much of time. what were you thinking about, when creating ( actually copy+pasting from dark souls) this game? Did you think gamers have many free times? it's just wasting so much time.
If you enjoy games that are dripping with story, endlessly playable and a bang for your buck, Elden Ring may be the best for it. My first run of the game clocked about 100 hours. It is not an easy game to play, the game is sett like every other Soulsbourne game while allowing the player to experience the open world at their ease and pace.
The game is amazing. Played for over 100 hours and did not complete it yet. However, due to technical issues - performance, stutters, crashes, I cannot recommend this title to anyone.
quite fun game but full of flaws: 1-this is an open world it is not a soulslike, the areas are open, you can escape and choose enemies more within your reach so any hidden mechanics inherent in the quests either you lose them or leave them since you do not understand anything about how to go forward in the secondary quests -2- a diary is missing, it is not possible that in 2022 an open world rpg does not have a diary -3- the menus seem catapulted from the 90s, the comparison functions weapon in hand weapon to buy sell? the tokens to understand the last item collected dropped? and there would be other "trifles" but forget it, a game that is nice to play but Myazaky and alla from obviously get angry when they create something that works and completes the product, I don't give them more than 7.5-8 10, the combat is fun and the scenography is wonderful but not enough .. it is too dispersive and not very immersive ..
Found the game a bit punishing so I hacked it to have regenerating health/FP. Then it's basically the best Elder Scrolls game of all time. The story doesn't hold your hand at all. You discover a mad world that has lost the blessing of death. It's a beautiful experience. Best game I've played in 15 years.
A very hyped game for no reason whatsoever because the quality does not corelate with the hype.I would see how souls fans would love this game because it's basically Dark Souls 4 with some mechanics changed and a bigger world,that's basically it,the story is still nonsensical and left to interpretation,like I can see the writers in the meeting being like "hey,we barely have any story and have 1000+ plotholes,what do we do?" and one came with the ideea "don't worry,our fans will just make up for our lack of competence by saying it's just abstract storytelling".Amazing... Anyway,as for gameplay,some mechanics were changed like the dodging is more scuffed,balancing is now directly corelated with your level,so less "git gud" and more "get on the rune sigma grind,bro". There are some improvements like the new jump button(wow,a jump button in 2022,what a feature) and the arts of war are pretty cool,as well as adding stealth and more stagger options,and also spirit **** while it made improvements in some aspects,it tooks some steps backwards as well. Also,I really dislike how they went for the quantity over quality route in stead by reusing and recycling so many bosses. Graphically,it's ok,nothing amazing,some things do look amazing but maybe only 10% of the time. And I don't know how George RR Martin was involved in the making of this story cause it just seems like some more Miyazaki **** so it feels like false advertisement to me. All in all,I believe a 6 is a fair enough grade,after 40-50 hours on Steam,I just got bored of it,the PC performance was not stellar even after 3 patches and since I'm not not such a huge fan,I can look at this objectively and say it's very dissapointing since they claimed it's going to be very different from their past titles but it's the same old ****.
I was there for the hype since 2019. I knew that Miyazaki would deliver, since he always delivers. It surpassed every expectation in every way possible. It has perfected difficulty and level design. The music feels fresh, the story is the most intricate they've made and it's truly a joy to experience. There might be some nit-picks on the code department on a microscopical level, but they don't hold a candle to the overall product.
Let's focus on the positives first: - Awesome world design, absolutely incredible open world - Soundtrack is great as always - Character and boss designs are great visually speaking - So many builds and customization options So how does a game with this much good in it fall so flat? Laziness, really. The game is lazily put together in so many aspects. It feels like they just threw proper level scaling and actually difficulty out of the window for the late game. Featuring bosses with undodgeable kill combos, ridiculous damage, bad hitboxes, and unfair design all around. For every amazing moment there is in the early game, there is like 5 bad moments in the late game. So many late game bosses would be so cool if they weren't infuriatingly unfair and badly designed. Beyond that, the difficulty at large, which in the early game felt carefully and expertly crafted, becomes unfair as well in the late game. The same reasons as highlighted above but apply it to basically every enemy that they introduce in the late game. In all honesty, if you want to play this game, you should really only play all of the earlygame and some of the midgame, as the rest will just make you hate it. Luckily, the issues as to why the late game is bad are all fixable, the ideas behind the enemies themselves do not get worse, they are just horribly unbalanced and unfair. A few balance patches can really save this game. So for now, it is a 5 out of 10, it is still a really good game, but it truly feels like it only lives up to half of its potential due to the laziness in balancing the late game. Hopeful to see that fixed soon.
As a long fan of the Souls-born series, this game feels so much like a best of tour. Some of the best, most grandiose bosses the series has to offer, the best weapons and spell variety in the series and does enough to make the game feel new and fresh with the dedicated jump button and the new ashes of war mechanics. Despite the rough launch performance wise the game has very much stabilized and stutters are really only noticed in the open world, not so much boss arenas and legacy dungeons. The game is also the most accessible in the series, as summoning ashes are plentiful, and the open world allows for exploration and leveling before tackling the bosses. I will admit, some of the mini-bosses in the open world and catacombs/caves are really just there to fill the run time, but some of these encounters are quite rewarding none the less. Also highly recommend using a controller because the game isn't exactly made with PC controls in the forefront.
Great game, large operworld, must have for exploration freaks. Replayability garanted.
====================IIIIIIIIII GAME SCORE : 92 IIIIIIIIII====================
Garbage game, 2022/04/09 still can not enter game, white screen crash. Do you have a grudge against my computer?
This game is so adictive, the game is hard, but it's very fun, the visuals are stunning even if not the most realistic, the creativity made this game become a masterpiece. There's always more to do, all sidequests are fun, the rewards are interesting, the lore is well thought and even visiting old places, you can find something you missed the last time.
My first souls game. Incredibly hard, but after sinking weeks into this game and only being halfway through (if that!) I think it's an absolute masterpiece. I'm on PC and apart from a few crashes to desktop it's been a solid 60fps and no real issues. So glad I skipped Forbidden West to play this instead.
Amazing! Definite contender for Game of the Year. My favourite game since Witcher 3, just alot more challenging.
So, no game is a 10 for me. I feel like it can't be. Maybe if it came out with 120fps option and fully optimised and included some insane brand new mechanics that flipped the souls formula on it's head I would have to give it that but that's the only downside. The sense of exploration, the sheer magnitude of running all over a map then realising there is a whole lower level you haven't seen and you have to survey the lands and your map to understand where to go. The build variety is INSANE, you want to go strength but like faith things? Cool, there is a catalyst that scales off str, just get enough faith points to be able to cast that spell. You like a weapon but it doesn't have the scaling or weapon art u want. Cool there is an ash of war for it. The game engages you to explore, you can easily find flask upgrades just by looking for ruin type objects in ur map. You run into so many weapons, items, talismans etc to form your build. This is what I wished skyrim was, each dungeon drops cool things, has a boss that's challenging. Boss design is also refreshing, more aggressive, different attack chains depending on what option you choose it's a nice change to typical souls bosses (bar artorius and probably others). If this is your first souls game, maybe don't shell out the bucks and play dark souls 1 remastered. But If you want a broad sense of exploration, discovery and sheer wonder of the world you can't miss it. But you will have to git gud, understand how dodge rolling first and maybe check out some beginner videos.
My truthful honorable incorruptible conclusive rating of this considered game: 9.
Its a improvement from Dark souls 3 in every way. The only Problem is that the hardware requirement is a bit to heavy. And the open world mechanics are improving the franchise a lot for me to. If you like Souls games, you will love it. If dont or, you are new to the series keep in mind that you will die a lot. And that you need to engage in the mechanics. Its a bit work and you cant just turn of your brain. Its still not a "mainstreamed" Game, so you should really think about what kind of game you want to play. The Story is really good but again told in a to cryptic way for me. You wont get everything until you played it 100h+ or watched some Youtube. But you can say that the beautiful world itself tells a Story to.
Elden Ring is a very good game, but it do lacks some story to it. Most of the game do not as such hold a story and for most you just riding around killing stuff. The game it get extremely difficult and one must level up and up. This goes esspecialy in the beginning and then very late. Took me 124 hours to reach the Fire Giant at level 89, and then I simply hit the wall and according to the various forum I would have to level up for 30 level to have a chance. As no real story to captive on and follow, it just got to tedious to continue. Most bosses can be taken by call in other players, and this is very needed, but I had strange issues in summon, and hence assumingly game servers have issues. In all, it is a masterpiece, but it need more story and yet again FormSoft lost ½ of the games to the difficulty and should consider some way of lowering it. In the end, I cheated by Weemod and ran the last 15% of the game after the fire giant though godmode (e.g. cannot be killed). Those bosses after Fire giant seem to me only to be possible if you know how to take by various glitches and hence you need to go online and read what to do. So said in other words, you will need to read a lot, see youtube to find the way of slaying the game.......hence, this is the strength of online community, but also the bad **** nearly have no chance of winning this game alone. So in all, I somehow think it should be a 10, but the lack of story and diffulculty setting issues it get an 8.
The game is addicting as hell, it's dark souls meet BOTW. easily get your money worth. the amount of content in this game is insane. easily 10/10
Favorite game.made an account just to rate this game. Polished game with no micro transactions and a massive MASSIVE map.
Elden Ring as a whole may seem charming and inviting on the outside, but I implore every single person who has ever thought about buying this game to save yourself the effort, and dont. I have played all the way to the final boss of the game, and didnt have fun at all, for the whole experience. It's slow, clunky, and overall just not fun. Oh and it stutters to hell and back on pc. 0/10 game, would refund again. It's way too unforgiving to new players to the souls genre. And I'm saying that as someone who isnt, it's too hard, unfun, and it will completely ruin your mood every time you play it.
Well, 10/10 and it's only 45+ hours. That is a TRULY remarkable game, no, it's an outstandingly great game! As i can see there's a lot of poor reviews mostly in PC section, and those reviews have absolutely nothing to do with the game itself. It has everything, that is a quintessential of Miyazaki' s Art. Graphics, difficulty, and an incredibly beautiful world. Lore, bosses. Amazing game. Shame on all who downgrade this game because **** and poor optimization on a game launch!! You should all be grateful to FromSoftware for this masterpiece. Besides, how do you imagine playing this game on a combination of keyboard and mouse? Just think about this for a moment. Don't downgrade this game for NO reason!
one of the best games i have played in years hope Fromsoft make more like this
Not the best optimisation , but god damn what a game , best in its genre for sure ! If you've played any souls-rogue-like games i can definitely recommend this one .
No problem for me I do not even have a frame drop The only problem with the game is the presence of duplicate bass
I am a big fan of the souls-series and this game gives more of that but i do not like the new open world. For my taste the game could be more **** is just a little bit too open. Nevertheless I think this game is a great piece of the souls-series. The gameplay is better then ever before and you have so much more possible way to play.
this game is the pinnacle of the souls genre that simply saved the whole videogame industry. GOTY 2022 for sure!
This game is incredibly fun and I love how you can build your character in any way you want!
Felt like the first time. This game is so awe inspiring and full of mystery, That it honestly felt like exploring my first open world game again. Every time I thought I had found everything I stumbled upon a new location. There are many options to make the game easier or more difficult for yourself with equipment or leveling choices. Massive amounts of content to explore that feels rewarding. Only 9/10 though because of poor PC optimization (stutter/frame-rate lock) .
This is the best game I have ever played. The game world is beatiful, gameplay is rewarding and the amount of content in this game is just unbelievable. I feel like storytelling could be a bit better, but besides that everything was perfect. I thought I was going to be forced to play this game on controller but the game works surprisingly well with m&k. 10/10
I've never been a brother with the Souls series. I never touched any part, and the only game from FromSoftware that I finished was Sekiro. I watched the trailers and gameplay of the Elden Ring and decided to give it a try. I will not say that seeing videos on Youtube, I was most captivated by the beautiful open world. So, the game was purchased a month after the premiere and started: I soaked in 125 hours of wonderful gameplay. FromSoftware's storytelling style is so great that I couldn't tear myself away from my computer. I spent about 100 hours exploring every bit of the map, patting the optional bosses and riding my horse wherever my eyes can see me. More than once, I found myself turning in a specific direction because I was meeting something equally interesting. In order not to write too much, I will mention the most important points in my opinion: PROS: + a beautiful open world with a huge amount of content that encourages detachment, + interesting story and nicely written characters - I got hooked so much that after finishing the game I sit and read lore on the internet. + interesting combat system, lots of weapons, nice attacks, ashes of war, skills, + the system of summoning ghosts to help - he saved me many times in the fight against the boss and it was pleasant to develop this large number of ghosts. + HORSE - perfect for exploring the world - nice speed, not muddy, something great. + Bosses - bosses everywhere, no matter where I entered it was a satisfying boss fight after clearing the area. + Grind - some treated it as a minus, but I thought the runes for the next lvl were very pleasant and I watched my character develop with pleasure. + difficulty - compared to Sekiro, it was quite easy here. I tortured the Crucible Knight the most in the eternal prison (out of 30 times), but Melania came down the first time :) the last BOSS after the third. + Rivers of Blood - this katana is a dream
Game is not as user friendly as it could be. Enemies are very over powered, especially if your just starting out. One or two swings and your dead. For the price point I would not expect to get this discouraged just starting out but what do I know as a consumer. Enemies should not be this overpowered especially in the very beginning. This will most likely be the only game I will ever purchase from these creators. Would not recommend as I’ve spent far less on games and had much more fun and didn’t feel like I needed to take anxiety meds just to play.
Masterpiece, top 3 games of all time maybe even number 1. The world is breath taking everywhere you go, this is the best execution of an open world game together with Breath Of The Wild. Extreme fun making different builds and trying different play styles the possibility to travel anywhere can lead to outleveling some bosses and make them easier but the game is still very challenging and fun.
A true Masterpiece. The best game From Software has put out. Where do I even start? There is so much to do in this game; so many unique bosses, enemies, caves, mines, dungeons, castles, weapons, weapon skills and other items that are scattered all across this gigantic map. It never gets boring exploring the world because there is so much variety in the biomes and its enemies and it never feels empty thanks to all the things that you can find. I have almost 200hrs in this game and I beat it only once but that's because I took it very slowly and tried to explore everything and the thing is that I probably still missed some stuff. The story is simply amazing and in my opinion, even better than in From Software's previous titles. There are much more memorable characters and I really love the way they are related to the world, other characters and your character. The story is told through the things you see in the world, the items that you find and its characters instead of exposition. This style of storytelling works amazingly for a RPG and leaves a lot of room for your imagination and allows for a very personal journey. It's like reading a book except you're playing a video game! I didn't even mention the amazing gameplay and how great the combat is. The combat of course has similarities to Dark Souls but you have much more tools at your disposal. You can summon Spirits, use an item that turns enemies against each other, use so many spells with different categories like dragon spells, lightning spells, holy spells, magic spells, a friggin' laser and much more. If you use melee weapons you can use a new counter move, which is very useful and fun to use, you can also now equip weapons of the same type to each hand and then attack with both (like in Dark Souls 2) and Poise works like in Dark Souls 1. The best of all worlds! The horse combat is also amazing, you can just spawn the horse whenever you like and it's more of a extension of your character instead of an annoying transportation tool. But my favorite new feature is that normal weapons can be customized with different skills and thanks to that they can be equally as fun to use as boss weapons/unique weapons. The only negative things that I found are: - When picking up an item, there is no button to go to the inventory page, you have to go there yourself if you want to read the description - Switching between usable items is a little hard - Coop on the open world is not very fun since you can't use the horse while playing online - There are some specific places where you can go and find no item but those are few and far between - Performance and the lack of Playstation button icons But those are very minor issues and don't stop me from giving this game a 10/10! Don't wait for a sale, this game is worth much more than 60$
Magnum Opus, Obra Maestra, Masterpiece. A gaming experience that changed the formula for open world games. One of the greatest if not the greatest.
It's ok but not so good enough. Performance, story, mission design still needs improvement.
Good better than horizon forbidden mid Stop rating thisna 2 cuz ur stupid **** mid game is getting overshadow by elden ring Its getting overshadow cuz its ass ofc nobody cares about horizon its bad compared to elden ring
Absolutely a masterpiece. The Soulsbourne formula in an open world adds a richness for veterans of FromSoftware’s titles as well as an easier entry point for newcomers given that you aren’t stuck on a linear path for the entirety of the game. Sound design, graphics, content, characters, etc. Everything hits the mark and FromSoftware continues to prove that you don’t need to produce a crappy Ubisoft open world full of handholding quests to be a good game. It’s refreshing to finally have a game unburdened by micro transactions, a lack of content, political tropes, or a boring gameplay loop. If you buy any game this year, make it Elden Ring.
so BIG, so deep, so interesting, like nextgen zelda. Many secrets, many interesting bosses, many locations. U play the game and game doesn't meant to end.
Too hard to play really not wroth my money any% don't suggest for low reflex people or unpatience. total game desing and art really great but difficulty wall not allow me to experince it :P great game but really **** on introducing for every people.
Great game with a lot of content, but framerate issues even when playing on lower settings than the game recommends for my PC hold the game back.
137 hours played so far on Steam. The next highest on there for me are Crusader Kings II (69 hrs), No Man's Sky (51 hrs), Factorio (46 hrs), Fallout 4 (44 hrs). The last game I played this much was Breath of the Wild. It is definitely not an easy game. And, you need to become more comfortable with dying. But, once you get the hang of it, it's an addicting game with plenty to do. The world is absolutely huge, and there are dungeons and bosses and other secrets littered all over the place. It would be a nightmare to get 100% completion. The leveling system is a little whacky. You lose your runes (which are needed to level and buy things) every time you die, and you're given one chance to collect them. If you die again before returning to the place you died initially to collect them, they're lost forever. It can make the game incredibly frustrating. But, now I basically level by rune-farming a certain area, and ignore my lost runes when I die. Coupled with use of multiplayer where applicable, the game became 10x easier, and more like BoTW. I did experience the stuttering some PC folks complain about, and this is on a brand-new system with a GTX3070. After fiddling with the graphics, as well as the recent patch, I'm not experiencing much of that anymore. At the end of the day, any game that has me playing as much as this one does deserves a 10/10. Is it perfect? No. But if we reserved 10/10 for perfect games, I'm not sure if we'd ever use it.
Dark Souls 3:Ctrl+C Ctrl+V edition. Extra textures pack. Plz buy our deluxe edition for 1 useless emote
Blown away by the vast world. I have been playing Fromsoft games since Armored Core 1 and king's Field-this, THIS is the zenith of all things they've made thus far. Forget the maidenless reviews from players who haven't taken the time to git gud. i rated it a 9 because of performance issues but you will not regret this game
Awful game. It's just 80 hours of raw, unforgiving pain. And not the fun kind of pain -- the stupid kind of pain. I love Dark Souls 1 and 3 and have completed them plenty of times, so it's not that I have an issue with the Souls series. I actually went back and started a playthrough of DS3 after getting most of the way through Elden Ring just to remind myself what a fun From Software game looks like. The bad: 1) Boss design. Absolute garbage. Every one of them is a giant dude that can hit you for 75% to 100% of your health from infinite range with AOE. Every one of them has an 8 hit combo. Every one of them has some illegible attack that they wind up, pause for 1-2 seconds, and then swing super fast. Tree sentinel? The first boss you come across (that you're supposed to skip, yes, yes, I know)? Yeah, it's a dude on a horse. His jump attack doesn't go straight at you. No, he jumps about 30 degrees off to the side so that your spells will miss him, and then changes direction in midair to hit you. If he had wings or was some ethereal being, sure, that would makes sense. He doesn't. He's just a dude on a horse and someone at From Software decided horses can defy physics now. Half the time, you're in a tiny room so you can't manuever too. One boss like that? Sure, it's fun. Capra demon was cool. Sister Friede was cool. But in this game, it's Every. Single. Boss. 2) It should have been called Dark Souls 4. Once again, we're in a decaying world with a bunch of people who speak slowly and vaguely. There's some gods. They're not doing their part. We're some undead dude that needs to go fix the world. Souls are now runes. Bonfires are sites of grace (and they're still used as a loading icon on the lower left of your screen). Phantoms are still phantoms. Messages are still there. You still get a nice big YOU DIED when you die. It's all just too familiar. Look, if you're going to just reskin dark souls, right down to the plot, just call it dark souls. 3) The characters. Just about every character in this game starts with a G, R, or M. Want to keep track of the difference between Godric and Godwyn? How about Marika, Malenia, and Melina? Maybe you'd like some Ranni, Renna, and Rennala? Redahn and Radagon? What the hell. I completely stopped caring about this plot -- George R. R. Martin and Miyazaki have lost their minds. 4) PC performance. Awful. Even on a high end machine, you'll come up against constant stuttering. Enemies and allies will turn invisible. Half the time, my dude is riding around on an invisible horse. It's kinda funny, but it's really frustrating when you can't see the Adds in a huge boss fight. The good: 1) The environments and enemies still look cool. They look great, even, and the world is huge. But it's just not enough to carry this game on its own. Especially since it's still the same art style that we've come to know from other Dark Souls games. Skip it. Just skip it. Buy it when it's in the bargain bin in two years if you must, for curiosity's sake.
I do not understand why those who love the game love it so much. I played the game for 20 hours and heard 30 sentences in total, how is this a perfect game? Is it the game of the year to make a map and fill it with ridiculous bosses and creatures? I've played the game for 20 hours and I don't understand what's going on in the game, there is no such nonsense game. There are already a few dialogues in total, and they wrote them so strangely to create mystery. For example, I see someone in the game, I think he will talk about what the game is about. He makes two stupid sentences and says go on, I can't deal with you. When I went to that round table, for the first time I said, "Okay, now they'll tell you two things". They said two ridiculous things. Someone said let me know if you see that woman, a woman hugged me and then said f.. off now. The other one has a wheel on his head, he said, "Let me teach you something" and he was teaching magic. Someone stands and looks at me and doesn't speak at all. Something like two statues is holding on to a stick selling something, what kind of environment is that? Tell me this. Is not it? For example, I came across something like a big cauldron while I was traveling, it was stuck on the ground and I saved it by hitting it, so this is not a normal type, is it? You have to explain this, the talking cauldron, it has hands and arms, what is it, where did it come from? No. "I'm alexander I'm traveling" that's it??? I entered one cave, there are wolves etc. Then I went through a fog and there's a creature I can't remember the exact name of, something like the monster man of azura. I killed him and got out in 5-6 tries. Eh? What's up now? What did I understand, he is a type that looks like he has mutated from wolves, what is he looking for here, who is he? They modeled it and threw it there, two moves, it's over. Is this the perfect game? In short, there is no story that draws me in. If there is a story with a boss, you are ambitious to learn the continuation of that story, you try to defeat it, right? What's the story in this game? What motivates you in this game? What makes you wonder to continue? Does the next boss shoot by spinning, or does he create a sword out of nothing and shoot to understand it? For example, I think that first boss appeared in a place like a bridge. Tarnished etc. he said. Who is this? What does it do? What's the deal with this? His face is like rabies, he hits with a big stick in one hand, hits with his tail, throws out an imaginary knife, hits with an imaginary sledgehammer, hits with an imaginary sword, but what is the place of this in that story? I watched a few videos and there are too many meaningless bosses. I don't think any of them are told about their story, because as I said, I played for 20 hours and I must have heard 30 sentences or something. The cat statue is the boss, the dragon is the boss, the big horse is the little boss, etc. Even the item names are meaningless. There was an item named something like "white pickled rabbit" :D I think the man who did it thought "let this boss have a tail, hmm this one has 30 hands, what should it be, sir? Let it shoot" and shook everything out of his head. Anyway, I guess people thought they would make up a story in their head. If there is a decent story, do I have to open it and look it up on the internet etc.? Tell me the story in the game. I would like to learn the story of the game in the game, not by asking uncle google, we are playing a game, after all, we are not doing thesis research, are we? The game world is full. Get out of there. If we don't see the game, we will eat it. Creatures wandering around aimlessly. Go around and kill. Is this the full world? There is no sign of a living world or the like. I played a total of 30 hours with other characters and I always played in the mind of "people have always loved this game, what do I not understand, I should love it too". But it's a very bad game. You're stuck on a hype. The game also got 96 points??? What does 96 points mean? It means everything has to be perfect. Performance issues alone should have prevented him from getting that score. No story, no enemy AI. If we look at the graph, it **** too. If other games had these problems, the whole game world would curse that game. But if you ask about this game, the answer is always the same "Souls games don't look for these" :D Don't look at the animation, don't look at the graphics, don't look at the story presentation, don't look at the optimization, what the hell are we looking for? Come to a boss, die 50 times to that boss, go back that way, memorize the moves of that boss and finally when you kill him, "oovaaaauuuvvv, this is the game, what a defeat, this is the pleasure of difficulty, yiaaa". The game is just that.
Easily the best open world and minimalist UX experience ever invented, nearly ruined by its being a technical dumpster fire. While amateur critics lambasted games like Cyberpunk for sporadic texture glitches, Elden Ring features server disconnects in a single player game, a plethora of CTDs, save corruptions that will see dozens of hours of progress lost, multiplayer disconnects, and a complete lack of matchmaking in multiplayer that will make gameplay with a friend a slog of level 100+ players camping level 1-30 areas. Elden Ring has an expansive and meaningful world and rich, perfectly understated lore. Unfortunately, it struggles at being a game underneath everything it does well. Monsters will hit you through walls, iframes on dodges and hitboxes on attacks are imperfect, and the class/leveling system is skewed in importance early on due to the game's prioritization of level over stats as an expression of the player's power. It's a great game. I just wish they spent a little more time making the gameplay enjoyable and maybe consider using their cloud system to protect players from save corruption? This is the first time I've seen save corruption in over a decade, and it's inexcusable. That alone is worth taking two points off the total score.
I enjoyed this game and spent around 45 hours playing, my problem is I have reached a point where I just can't progress. The bosses are too difficult. Also I can't stand a game where I need to have the game guide open in a seperate tab for like 95% of gameplay. Some of the things I have had to use guides for I'm sure I would have NEVER figured out without them. It's just not fun for me when a game is so difficult that it requires a play guide. Also I cant not stand the fact that it is open world AND there is no indicator of how difficult an enemy is before you attack it (it would be really nice if they showed the enemies' levels rather than just getting one shotted all the time). I really gave this game an honest try but I've decided it isn't worth any further investment. I'm probably going to try and play dark souls because it is linear progression.
Is this Dark Souls 4? On the surface, it appears so, but if you play it like a Dark Souls game, you'll have a very short lifespan. The open world and horse mechanics opens up new possibilities during combat which are completely necessary to overcome the challenges. This is an evolution of DS and Sekiro set in an open world. It is engrossing and the urge to explore and discover new mysteries is palpable. Highly recommended to those who have loved the DS series and even those who have never played them. It is exquisite!
The hardest video game I have ever played in my life is also the masterpiece of the decade bar none! Elden Ring has raised every bar imaginable for every game across every category, and this is the rare title that truly deserves its hype. Gushing with content from head to toe, a gorgeous open-world that puts everything else, even the amazing Horizon Forbidden West to shame! Incredible combat system that pulls no punches with savage enemies who will adapt to every situation. The most intense boss fights I have ever experienced. I don't know how many more times I could say masterpiece about Elden Ring, its Zelda on a thousand steroids and is the must play title of the decade. Hardest game you will ever play, no hand holding whatsoever, but if you can get past its difficulty, its a diamond the size of Jupiter. 10/10
The culmination of years of perfection by FromSoftware. Brutal, challenging & punishing. Yet also fair & easier than what came before, thanks to more options made available that the layer has to find & actively use. PC version's only real marring quality is it's stability, requiring waiting for the game to warm up before you stop seeing hitches in the frame rate or brief pauses. But even then they don't go away.
CONS 1- The streamer is dumb 2- The map is big and confusing 3- the optimization is horrible, the game runs poorly on rtx 4-the people who make tutorials are dumb too. They don't show the map, they just show a specific corner hoping we know where it is. PROS the game is beautiful, at 40 fps
This game super gud, buy 4 me please. World huge and has dragons. Patches wants to play too.
It's a good, and fun game. Sure, it had some graphical issues, but none of them have caused any problems or annoyances for myself
The handling is clumsy. The gameplay itself is slow, outdated, like the graphics are. And despite that fact, the game manages to lag on a pretty good computer. Total waste of my money.
After 120h of pure frustration and 200 level (at least 40-50 farmed), I give this game 2/10. The game is beaten solo (offline). It ****, and here is why: Main Story: There isn't one, after 200h the only thing that can be understood is that there is a stupid ring (G.R.R.'s courtesy), and that is it. You finish the game and there is no ring, you become "Elden Lord", whatever that means, and that is it. Side Quests: Not a one normal quest that I will remember. No quest tracking, no map points, nothing. I've finished the game and missed 90% of the quests. Some of them I finished following various YT videos because I needed some gear, otherwise I wouldn't finish any of them. All quests expect players to spend tens of hours figuring out where will the quest character appear and when, and since the world is huge, that is a non-sense. The whole "exhausting dialogs" approach is stupid in many ways. Combat: Pure frustration. Dark Souls sheep that believe that dodging is a "skill", I pity them. Controlling your character feels like controlling an old dude who is lagging in every movement, and you are supposed to dodge with him in front of enemies with limitless stamina, 5+ hit combos and 5m-long weapons. Drinking potions is slow, so you need to dodge at least 5-7 times away from some enemies in order to be able to drink one potion without getting hit again. Most enemies use endless combos. It doesn't matter which level you are, if you go back to the beginning and find yourself between 2-3 enemies, you will die from couple of hits. It seems that your health is taken by percentage, almost every boss in the game will kill you in 3 hits at most. Waving with staff takes the same amount of stamina as hitting enemy with 3m hammer! Enemies: Great design for some enemies and bosses, and that's it, everything else about enemies is frustrated. Big bosses are stupid: locked camera goes crazy, hit box is not accurate. Some normal enemies are way harder than some bosses. All enemies are way agile than your old dude. Double bosses are stupid. Double stage bosses are even more stupid. Some bosses have enemies before it, each time you have to deal with them before entering boss area, because if you don't, you will get hit from back, or your summons will fight the enemies behind the barrier instead of boss. Difficulty: Nothing to say here, everybody knows it is kind of stupid difficulty that has nothing to do with the skills. I can only say that leveling up your character and coming back later is not fun at all. It makes you skip the content, the whole areas, the whole quests, and forgetting about them. Losing runes on death is just frustrating, it doesn't make the game any more difficult, it makes it longer because you will try to farm runes instead of playing the game. Open world: The design of the world is great, with wonderful scenes. The world is describing you its atmosphere graphically, whereas the music is not following that atmosphere at all. However, like many games, this one is also using open world to extend game's length in a lazy way. A lot of places have nothing, you are just traveling vast spaces without finding anything. Animations: Slow combat movement/drinking potion/opening doors/getting up when knocked down/bow attack, ... Controls: They chose the biggest idiot to make this port to PC. Never seen more stupid key bindings in any game, ever. How dafuq I am going to use E+ARROW KEY in the middle of a fight?! And don't tell me: "You have to use joystick, bla, bla, ...". If you are charging for PC game same as PS/XBOX, you should invest some time in adjusting it for PC. Have they just assigned random keys?! Then there is constant shuffling between spells, potions, weapons, ... Try doing that in front of boss that takes 90% of your health with one hit. I've died countless times because I shuffled wrong item. There is no consistency at all: sometimes you can use ESC to close something, something you must, sometimes you can't. Space for running instead of SHIFT like in every game?! G for map, why not M?! F for jump?! UI: Stupid Dark Souls recycled UI. It seems they copied everything they can from there. In a game where you die hundreds of times, you should be more creative with death message/animation, but they went with the lame "YOU DIED" for 100th time. Inventory management is painful. No pause! When you want to exit you are forced to see 2 logo animations again. Click "any" key to continue (except enter and space). Sound/music: I think there is one track throughout the whole game, and second one when somebody attacks you. And they both ****. I wouldn't recommend this game to anybody. This game feels like doing chores and not playing.
I have logged just over 100 hours into this game over the last two weeks, and I am a working professional, husband, and father of 3. No game is without flaws; however, I am overjoyed with the value proposition of this game. For me, it is like a mix between of few of my favorite games such as Zelda Breath of the Wild, Tom Raider, and an old favorite Everquest, etc. It is a massive achievement, particularly in this age of poor quality releases. This game will be as timeless as Breath of the Wild, and more so for me due to its' adult nature and added verticality to many challenges. There is ample freedom to explore, creativity in tackling obstacles, and just when you find yourself on the verge of boredom or thinking you're approaching end game, the world opens up further and new challenges put you back in your place. I am often surprised by death in a way that brings a smile to my face - like OK you got me there. Then there is of course victory after several failed attempts that brings joy from overcoming. Bravo. Masterpiece, warts and all.
Masterpiece. Perfect in every regard (except performance sometimes, but it's not that bad really)
The beginning of this game is probably some of the best time I've had gaming, ever. However, the more you go on, the more you realize the game is full of copy/paste dungeons and bosses. I can't put into words how bored I got fighting the same bosses over and over and over again. There are 6(!!) different versions of the same boss, 5 for another boss. And the farther you get into the game, the emptier the world feels. Aesthetically, the world is absolutely beautiful, but it's just empty. I do understand that this is a problem with just about every open world game, but I think it was a mistake to make a FromSoft game open world. On top of the open world issues, the game is just too easy. The allure of an open world (and fromsoft games in general) is to explore every inch, find secrets, and acquire more gear. However this leads to you being over-leveled way too fast, which meant I was just breezing through the game more than I ever have in Dark Souls, Bloodborne, or Sekiro. Overall, it's a good game, better than most, even. But for a FromSoft game, I'm disappointed.
From Software has made recent history with one of the highest recently released games, Elden Ring. Every bit of praise has been deserved with how much this game has to offer, especially given the fact that the developers changed their formula quite a bit, making this souls-like ARPG open world and filled it to the brim with content. While there have been some performance complaints due to the network errors and stutters, most of the issues are minor and hardly game breaking. This game will no doubt make it to GOTY and is one of the best ARPGs to release since Witcher 3. There are no words that can describe how beautiful the Lands Between are, let alone how much content is filled in every nook and cranny. From the beautiful Lake of Liurnia, to the vast plains of the Atlus Plateau and the towering Mountaintops of the Giants, I constantly feel the need to screen capture every moment. Elden Ring is absolutely visually stunning, especially on a 30 series GPU. Not to mention, you never run out of things to do between dungeons, area bosses, hidden items and shacks of merchants, and evergaols around each and every corner. There is always something new to discover between the hours spent roaming each area and I absolutely love it. I would often find myself running into random caves that would ascend to the depths with a boss waiting for me, or even random ruins of a church or building with some much needed loot inside. Nothing feels too obvious to find, and everything becomes more challenging with puzzles and obstacles, or just a purely brutal boss. Each area is also filled with hours worth of quests and discoveries, I mean there are 83 bosses in the entire game. Limgrave alone will take a player around 25 hours to fully complete given the fact that there are 15 dungeons alone. Evergaols are a delightful surprise that often end in pain or fun. They are, in layman’s terms, what can be described as everlasting jails, with brutally tough bosses waiting to fight you in an arena that is basically their prison. Some will require a stonesword key to open, and usually those ones are a bit hard than the others. That being said, if you are over leveled, some of these fights can be a cake walk. The nice part about them is the fact that if you die, your souls will be left outside of the ring leaving little to no punishment, but the fights still feel rewarding to take part in. These gaols are scattered throughout the Lands Between with little to no obstacles in the way, and they can be challenged at any time without progression punishment and rewards. While every class has their unique stat priorities like any souls game or RPG in general, due to the sheer damage every enemy seems to cause, Vitality is one of the most important stats for every class. It is highly recommended to get this specific stat to at least 20, and even then most players have changed the spec even higher. Almost all magic using classes have become glass cannons as well as dexterity classes. Many bosses have a move that can one hit any player with 20 dumped into vitality which is insane. It should also be noted that soft and hard caps have completely changed for each stat. Every stat hard caps at 99, but now there are around three tiers of soft caps that are completely different for each class. A prime example would be that stats like Faith and Intelligence soft cap at 20, 80, and 90, while Endurance has four soft caps at 12, 18, 32, and 50. This in turn creates a whole new ball park for PVP, which we will have to wait and see where the meta turns. One added bonus to From Software’s first open world souls game is the spectral steed Torrent. Torrent is a life saver due to how massive the world is, but also changes fights entirely. I love the fact that you can fight with a weapon or use spells while mounted, but also sometimes choose not to due to the fact that you can fight area bosses mounted and it makes it way less challenging. Dragons are a prime example of this, because even though they can most likely one shot you, you can complete a lot of the fight without getting hit if you use Torrent. Convenient or not, it does take away from the impact and fun of the fight a lot of the time. However, Torrent is great if you want to grind for souls and quickly take out enemies. Overall, Elden Ring has slowly become one of my favorite games of all time, and is one of the top open world ARPGs to release this generation. While there can be some balancing changes, as well as some performance fixes that will come with time anyway, this game is almost perfect in story, side content, and gameplay all around.
Can't give it a good rating, because of poor pc port. It's been a month since the game launched and it still stutters, no matter the graphic settings, drivers, anti-cheat or satanic rituals. The world does seem interesting, but fromsoft had the audacity to release a stuttering game that is all about reacting to your opponent? For real? Don't buy it, there's a high chances it won't run properly for you
RTX 3080 and I can't even get 60fps, I wouldn't mind but the graphics aren't even that good.
- Lags on Release on pretop specs computer - Boring soundtrack(except Main Theme) - Fromsoftware repeats oneself, plagiarize gamedesing and mechanics from DS3 - Repeating over and over similar bosses - lack of improvement or change in game mechanics(except for JUMPing with a separate key) - devastating Final Boss and endings - weak and useless magic
Overall good game, but this game need alot optimisation for PC port. but for the gameplay is fine.
It's a game that suffer from the same problem as it's predecessor. The art and overall world design is flawless (not counting the hostile part, that's for the next pat), there is nothing i can say on that, it's just wonderful. Where the problem is with the game, is the gameplay. Overall, the game end up being hard for the sake of being hard. The intricate story and the breathtaking artstyle end up being painful to access as you have to face all the unceasing crap the game send your way. As with other game from the director, you can still screw yourself up from questline by doing things the games never indicate you should not, like attacking a bear in the area where they attack you (this cuts you out from a quest). This kind of situation can happen at any point, and considering the lenght of the game and how it save constantly, it is still impossible to correct the tiny mistake you make. But hey! it's still better than a game daring to hold your hand a bit, am i right? Also, it's been 13 years and there is still no pause (that isn't an exploit). that you are alone in your game or even fully offline, in 2022, if you need to use the bathroom, Mr Miyazaki say you need to wait The needlessly painful experience, the lack of basic game functions like pause and the obcession with being overly cryptic to the point of negatively impacting the gamew experience is why i cannot give more than a 5. The game is gorgeous, but it's not worth much when everytrhing else is pain
This game is great. I heard it had a rough launch on PC, however I didn't have such problems, yes my game crashed once or twice in my 200 hours playing, but nothing too bad. The world of Elden Ring is amazing, is beautiful, the art direction is incredible. Graphics were never the strong suit of From Software games, so don't expect photo-realistic graphics, but its not a complain, the graphics are not bad either, its better than DS3 but worse than the Demon's Souls Remake for PS5. I was afraid of the open world, open world games normally are repetitive and empty, not Elden Ring tho, the world is full of things to do, every corner, every little cave has something waiting for you, if i have one complain is some bosses are reused especially on dungeons, but, normally makes sense, like, a knight from a army or a regiment, of course there are more then just the one knight dude, its a army after all. There are plenty of unique bosses and enemies, probably more than any other From Software game before. From software already proved that it is willing to release new patches for the game so than can correct any performance or balance issues, at this time i have played it in full once, exploring everything I found, killing every boss I encountered and I have to say this game has a lot of content, and a lot of it is a homage to past Souls-Borne games. If you already love the genre, this is a must buy, if you're new to the genre, this game offers a lot of ways to make you life easier, yes it is a hard game, but if you put the time to learn how to build your character and use all the tools given, you wont have too much trouble getting to the end credits. Summons for example can help you a lot during difficult encounters, splitting the enemies attention and giving you an opportunity to attack them while they attack your summons, and the coop still the same as ever, maybe easier, since you can craft the item that allows coop easily. This game is great, it isn't perfect , nothing in this world is, but is one of the better ones I have played.
Overhyped! But still a good game. It’s just a little bit monotonous. The only thing you are doing is fighting. Need better weapons? Fight! Want to explore the area? Fight! Want do something beside fighting? Buy a new game! The other point which I don’t like is the introduction. They do not explain so much things.
Absolutely phenomenal. The start is pretty difficult for people who are new to the series but once you get the hang of it, it becomes a glorious journey of slaying giant foes with precision. I would recommend this game to anyone wishing to challenge themselves.
Game does not stop crashing for some reason, PC can run every other games except this one. Searched up everything to fix it. And on top of that the support of Bandai did not even reply. Really disappointed.
This is one of the glitchier games i've played in a while, worse than my experience with Cyberpunk, Halo Infinite or the newer Call of Duty games. It's not enough to make it unplayable by any means, but random graphic glitches, enemies sometimes being invisible at first, stuttery visuals when moving. I'm using an RTX 3080 graphics card too and only on High settings because on Maximum settings its much more stuttery. I shouldn't have any issues with one of the best modern graphics cards on the market, especially when this game isn't pushing the envelope on graphics. Running Cyberpunk on Ultra with RTX is a smoother experience than Elden Ring on High settings. I can't imagine how rough it is for people with mediocre specs. PC feels very much like an after thought. Weird controls by default, weird feeling mouse movement, doesn't auto-detect keyboard so you have to dig for the setting to change the button prompts. The world feels fleshed out with solid lore and mechanics. You can tell they put a lot of passion into it within 10 minutes of playing. After several bosses you're hooked into the story and mechanics of improving your build. It's addicting and the downsides of the PC release don't ruin that, but it definitely burns a little bit. I've played minimal amounts of DS3 and Bloodbourne, only several bosses each, so this is the farthest i've ever gotten in a FromSoftware game with about 10 hours of play time and level 70-ish. I'm not one to play bosses over and over again so I picked mage, found some OP gear, beat some bosses and then did some rune farming - its essentially a built-in easy mode. The game is still challenging but it gives me a way to progress without getting frustrated. This also feels like one of the largest open worlds i've ever played. As I said i'm 10 hours in, I don't think i've explored even 5% of what this game has to offer.
BRILLIANT MASTERPIECE! Its an example how games should look. Probaby the best game From software and in future game of the year.
Faced with a vast world, where various passive and hostile creatures inhabit, you have the freedom to explore and discover secrets. A perfect game for soulslike style.
Worst of souls, magic diarrhea, dota wannabe... The idea/location is good but something is broken... The game is good according to numerous reviews of those who have not passed the game. It's a strange thing .. according to statistics, 2.5% passed the game. 50% of the players reached only the first boss, this is 1/5 of the volume of the game. This game implements the technology of guaranteed death of the hero on the principle of disabling controllability, and as the number of deaths increases, controllability is gradually added ..... that is, when the game decides that you need to die, contact with the keyboard is lost, etc.... Demon's Souls + Dark Souls 1/2/3 + Bloodborne + Sekiro + The Witcher 3 + Technical issues + Ruined PVP + Grind = Elden Ring. A mixture of two opposite sensations slowly but surely, as it passes, flows into one, negative...
I sport a monster of a PC and use a controller, so I can feel for those who have technical issues and have qualms with the lack of PC support. Legitimate complaints, all of them. But I'm reviewing my experience. The game - technical support aside, is nothing short of a masterpiece. FromSoftware has jam packed so much content in a game that can be beaten in a matter a few dozen hours, or with hundereds of hours, depending on how you play. They drop you into the world with no purpose, and then culminate everything towards you becoming Elden Lord. Yeah, absolutely no small feat, but with a the barrage of new experiences, surprises around the corner, the "figure it out yourself" brand of quest lines, and the complete release of a player into a world where they make the choices - it's a truly fascinating game design choice from a formerly very rigid gameplay cycle and linear design the developer was known for. Is it perfect? No game is - but I feel it at times is very close (aside from some weapon/build style balancing), and was the PC port extremely disappointing? Absolutely. But past these issues, this has to be cemented as one of the best titles of the year - and that FromSoftware has ever released, free of tropes and rehashed open world designs, taking risks to diverge both from their core fan base and average gamers experience to bring something familiar yet as a completely new amalgamation of great ideas with enough ambiguity to embolden those who made the effort to understand the subtle and indirect presentation of the games tasks and lore. I'll acknowledge the technical shortcomings, certainly not ideal for all players, but the core game itself, is a feat that I feel cannot be dragged down by the unfortunate technical issues (which I agree, need to be figured out by the developers and better supported). This is GOTY territory in Feb/Mar
Story has some Dark Souls vibes but it is fresh and not so short. Gameplay has best from all DS games. Open world is wonderful, always interesting to explore. Bosses are challenging but Spirit Ashes makes them a lot easier for non hardcore players. I cant say if i will replay it straightaway first walkthrough, but ill do it anyway some time sooner
Not sure what the hype is all about. Feels grindy/slow, devoid of life/atmosphere, controls **** out of the gate, inventory/etc management ****, graphics are ok at best. Has a very JRPG feel to it somehow. Overall it feels like going back to the original Gothic game (with its certain 'feel') after playing through Skyrim (with what i would label a much 'better' 'feel').
It was another console port . PC gamers were playing this type of game 15 years ago . What's with all the hype . I was bored after about an hour . And the controls were awful . Gutted I spent money on it . And the amount of fake reviews is a joke . A 10 really? Really ! BS
this game is actually good in many aspects, but the pc optimization is just trash and makes the experience unenjoyable.
A beautiful mess. I played this game for 50 hours, and I just don't have the motivation to finish it. The open world aspect of this game feels shallow, empty and meaningless. Nothing has changed since bloodborne/dark souls 3. There is no driving factor in this game, the bosses are plentiful but most are reskins of eachother put in a small dungeon in the corner of a map, there is no satisfation to killing a boss, you are rewarded with the same items over and over making them obsolete. The game is boring, a empty husk of what could've been a great game. Overall this game is a big stepdown from fromsoft's earlier works, I'm not even going to touch on the performance issues this game has. I'm dissapointed, what happened fromsoft?
Best GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED. if only the pc version did not mess up with the game the rating of the users would be higher
Incredible amazing! The best way to describe it.. just Go have fun and use your head
the game in pc is broken. every single time there is new update, every game thing needs to be load and every time the fps go to hell, even if your pc is from nasa. i will never buy a from software game at launch!!!!!
I'm an old school gamer that has been around through all the "ground breaking games". This game has renewed my faith in video games when nothing seemed to interest me anymore. My favorite game of all time.
No DLSS support No ultrawide support Stuttering ? White screen (Long load time 10min sometimes) Invisible enemies FPS cap (60) PVP exploit / glitch Coop disconnections Good game, but Fromsoftware don't care about the community requests
Worst game of all time. Lagging, bad balance, useless attributes, most of items and armors = unusable, every creep kill you 2 hit even when u spend all attributes in hp and you have heavy armor :) Creeps are stronger than bosses in this game, makes a lot of sense
one of the best games ive ever played, for those that say that it is too hard, there is a easier way to play. using ash summons and summoning NPCs and other player can make the game absurdly easy but you are the one in control of what you use
Honestly this is about one of the best games I've played in a long time, if not ever. I'm a huge fan of RPGs, roguelikes, and not a huge fan of 3rd person action games, but the depth of gameplay and world exploration in this game is phenomenal.
The Worst game ever made by From Software, the details lack polishing, a step backward in all aspects compared to the previous work. If you want play a From Software's game, Elden Ring is the least worthwhile work to play.
Masterpiece ****. Great challenge, amazing story, and has max replay value. Worth every penny and years waiting
I love this game. it runs nearly flawlessly on PC however the game doesn't tell you the controls and the default ones for mouse and keyboard are not great. I fixed this within five minutes by checking what people recommended you change the keybindings to with a quick google search. the world is beautifully crafted and some areas are genuinely scary if you're under-leveled and it's able to let you explore but still sort of advise you to stay in the starting section. if you do choose to risk it and adventure you can get some really fantastic rewards. the message system is a little weird and is mostly trolling but sometimes it's helpful and doesn't really take away from the experience. overall the world reminds me of botw and so does a lot of the experience. if you are uncultured and don't know what botw is look it up and check its score on Metacritic. :)
Not enjoyable for me. So much hype and I don't understand why. I get the appeal of souls games but it's the same thing over and over. Bad port
------------------ after more hours - it wasnt more attractive Its not hard and challenging. Its just dumb. Let me explain how is this **** in can masterpiece" My first defeated boss. Walked down to canyon by some dumb Mario Bros shortcut (horse only, climbing is to difficult for programmers). Found crypt with stone goblins and boss. Read a lot of spoilers "look left etc". Skyrim is scarier. Tried to kill goblin ahead, targeting button is locking one on sealing, cant change target.... Found some ground button to unlock door. I dont see something - why mount door open button so far away. So complicated mechanism and no door key. Ive killed few times goblins to spend runes for next level. Why i cant spend runes for 0.7 part of level? Thats why i feel little like in MMO kill mobs until level up and next kill boss... Killing boss wasnt easy a specially when not killed goblins and just run to the boss room. 2 problems - goblin heads in magic boss door and summoned wolves attacking them without effect. 3-rd problem dumb fight style with bosses - hundrets of non physical dodges, wrong collisions, and not many options with weapon and shield, little dumb counters. More logic would be some aikido/judo movements with so much mass difference or just big cannon, physical huge companion/minion/army,... Next part after killing goblins and boss i've won. Lot of stones "i did it" etc but for what? I didnt saw any loot. Weaker goblin had more attractive but also dumb stone head helmet. No satisfactions. Same thing with killing large trolls. My opinion was 5/10 now i could only give less. 3/10 ----------------earlier review Maybe too early for review, but just boring, not intriguing. Bigger overhype than CP77. How its possible to get so many possitives before release? - optimization 3/10 - story 2/10 (fingers, rings, witches, some boring ideas) - graphics and nice atmospheric lightning 7/10 - menu and shortcuts with keyboard 2/10 - physics and fighting 5/10 - open world i don't feel consistance, reason to go further. Its so chaotic and claustrophobic in design. - tutorial 2/10 - i hate this text stones. I dont know why i cannot summon spirits. Ive found after hours how to run and lock target. - fighting - u die very often but painless. It would be easy when u find weak points, preferred weapon sets and know how to run, but its too old style. Not much physics, cant undecide to do some move. Illogical counter, block, break system or animations. Only left right attack axis. I dont want to enable enemy lock to move backwards. Tps camera lock would be better for me. -level up system 4/10 (good are small changes between levels but i prefer training level up style than some collecting runes) Overall: 5/10 - only because i hope next part of the game would be maybe more interesting.
Punishing, brutal, satisfying. There is a new adventure around every corner of an extremely large world.
You would be lying if you said this game didn't have great potential its almost there, yeah the pc port is lack luster but really complaining about ultrawide support is kinda pathetic, the game runs fine for me I don't know why that's a problem for so many. I get it, after games like cyberpunk and security breach another poorly optimized game isn't what we wanted but to give it a 0 just because it doesn't always run smooth 60fps, I REALLY and I mean REALLY enjoy playing this game its just fun and isn't that all that really matters. I understand being mad about the port but I think this is to far. Lets just enjoy the game.
Horizons, Far Cry's, Tom Clancy's - "Don't worry little player you safe with us. Just take our hand and we show you where to go. And while you at it you can look around and enjoy view of our ray traced, uberrealistic and completely dead and boring world. You can enjoy mediocre story that you've seen thousand of times. Enjoy our overbearing UX that clutter every inch of your ultrawide 4k monitor. The worst thing you can do is move from already carefully paved pass to explore underwhelming boredom of our empty, dead game." Some problems with stuttering and FPS dips, but nothing that couple of patches couldn't fix. Great game.
Elden Ring is a fantastic and the most ambitious project From Soft has done yet, maybe too ambitious since I've found myself almost angry at times since the map and stuff to do is so big. It has some problems here and there with the port, but most of them have been solver already with patches. It is overall a great game, with very little negative aspects such as topography, nonetheless the game is still a great joy to play and experience!
Elden ring a game that almost every souls fan including myself craved for so long finally released was it worth the hype ? yes yes and yes the game is the most fun i had since red dead 2 its stupidly immersive and fun everything in this world is just wow i have almost 70 hours on console and pc combined and i still haven't seen everything this is totally game of the year material the only bad things i can say about this game are: - the game is very unoptimized and released in a broken state on pc and console which really killed it for most players and really takes my final score for this game down - the game feels way to easy because of how its approachable for a lot of new players and i really don't want the next souls game to be easy just for the sake of more people buying it but with all those cons in mind still my final score to Elden ring is an easy 9 out of 10 the game is fun and doesn't hold your hand at all unlike other third person open world games it could have been an easy 10 but at its current broken unoptimized state its not there yet i really recommend this for souls veterans and new people to the genre just because its super fun and approachable for everyone
Too bad review bombing is a thing. This game is amazing and it deserves a better score. It's true the PC port is a bit buggy, but it's far from what people make it to be. I love the combination of Dark Souls's combat and open-world gameplay. From Software did a great job combining the two in the most organic way. I'd say the game is well worth its price tag.
After 30+ hours of playing I have to say this is just great. The lack of guidance, the difficulty and the atmosphere of the world are great. I like challenging games, where I die often or have to restart myself because my run wasn't perfect. I like to play stealth games like Hitman so trying a boss over and over is something I actually like a lot. It gives you the feeling that you achieved something that not everyone is able to achieve. I played many open world games like CP2077, Dying Light 1&2, Most Far Cry titles, AC, and so on and these games feel more and more like I have a list of chores to complete. The map littered with quest markers, which often lead to boring side quests, that I usually regret doing, is simply pain for me. Elden Ring is exactly the opposite of that. No Questmarkers whatsoever and I like it! Elden Ring is a breath of fresh air in the open world genre. Combat is really challenging, especially for me who has never played a Souls-like game before, I die a lot, even to regular mobs, but I don't care. It's fun because eventually you beat the boss or clear the area and then feel good about it. Why only 8/10? Mainly technical issues like: 1) the 60Fps cap. I have a 144Hz monitor and a RTX 3080 that I really like to use. I don't see the reason why the framerate is capped. Haven't had the kind of stutters that other have so no issue for me. 2) bad controls for mouse and keyboard. Why are there Xbox promps when I first start the game? (btw I know how to change that, but still, why?) Why is the map key "G" and not "M"? A minor detail, but cmon... every other game uses "M". Keyboard layout overall isn't the best. Had to change nearly every key besides WASD to get good controls. FS could've done better here. 3) Inventory, Pouches, Equipment: Those tabs are nasty and not intuitive. Why can I not click on an item in my inventory and simply select if I want to equip it where my flasks are or if I want it in my pouch? Also how do I know what goes into the pouch and what doesn't? Why do I have to switch between inventory tabs why "Y" & "X"? "E" & "R" would've been much better in my opinion. Overall these things are kind of minor to me, but I still have to take them into account. Can't give a 10/10 if it's not perfect ;)
120 hrs in I have to say that this game is amazing. So much to explore and so many interesting monster designs. There is a steep learning curve if you are not familiar with 'Dark Souls' type games but totally worth it if you just push through. There are a lot of guides online to help as well. I did not experience any of the stuttering issues that some of the older reviews in here reported.
This game some how pissed off new comers and souls veterans. I played Bloodborne, Dark souls 3 and Seikro before playing Elden ring. Elden ring is the last fun game to play. If only the reviews know how the game works. You need skill and persistence to beat the previous game bosses. you no longer need that just level up tank hits and over power bosses. Bosses and insane combos that are impossible to dodge. May be a bloodborne or sekiro like character would do some justice to the new bosses. Story is straight up cringe. Every boss with multiple hands only use 2 hands in combat. So what that means is a wasted potential and staying in the comfort zone. open world feels like a chore. You play dungeons to get spirt ashes or golden seed. You get the best mimic by playing story line. after upgrading crimson flask to max. I was left with 5 extra golden seeds. So what that basically means was doing dungeons is a waste of time. No real benefit except you being over leveled for the boss fight. After you explore everything and ready to fight the boss. In a traditionally way you find yourself way over leveled and slap the boss cheeks. if are under leveled the bosses will slap your cheeks. there is no middle ground here. Worst bosses I ever played are exclusive in this game. open world is good for few hours after that it feels pretty useless. most of the effort went into early game and its all down hill from there on. you play souls games for bosses. which is the biggest failure in this game. Graphics are fine but I can forgive that. Bloodborne > Sekiro > DS3 > Elden ring
TLDR: Open world DS3 with a few minor additions. Full disclosure: I have not completed Elden Ring and don't plan to for now. I bought into the hype and regret dropping full price on this game so I'm hoping my review might help those still on the fence about buying this game. I have beaten Demons Souls, Darks Souls 1-3, Bloodborne so I do have experience with prior Fromsoft games and have enjoyed them. The technical issues with the PC port have already been covered ad nauseum so I'll go over some of the other aspects of the game. Gameplay: Basically the same as Dark Souls 3 with a few minor changes: 1) addition of jump button, 2) addition of mount and very basic mounted combat, 3) addition of guard cancel, 4) weapon arts are now equippable ("ashes of war" in Elden Ring). Veterans of the Souls series will feel right at home whereas the slower, calculated and methodical style of combat may take some getting used to for newcomers. Button mashing will get you killed very quickly in this game and even trash mobs can tear you apart. What was once revolutionary and spawned the whole subgenre of "Soulslike" games has become stale, predictable, and formulaic. Most of the enemies are reskins from the prior entries and in some cases, reused assets (eg. the giant crabs). Yes, the game is punishingly difficult but much of that difficulty is artificial from things like janky camera angles, busted hitboxes that pass through walls, gank squads in tight quarters, enemy projectiles defying the laws of physics, etc. Bosses attack relentlessly and you'll find yourself dodging for what feels like an eternity for a safe opportunity to counterattack, only to deal like 2% of their health. You'll likely die to greed, trying to get some more hits in on the boss because you're so bored of doing nothing but dodging yet another unending combo. For fans of the Souls series, this may be everything you wanted and for newcomers, this may still be fresh and exciting. For those who've played the Souls series and were hoping for some fresh gameplay, you won't find it here. World Design: The biggest change in Elden Ring from the Souls series is the introduction of an open world. For many, this is a breath of fresh air and one of their favourite features of Elden Ring. The world is massive and you can easily spend hours just exploring, opening up many possibilities for non-linear progression. Unfortunately for me, once I got passed the initial beauty of the world, I found it to be mostly empty and lifeless, and I found spending hours riding around on my mount looking for things to do tedious and boring. You will encounter random enemy mobs scattered throughout but the reward for killing them wasn't worth the effort so I just started riding around them. The optional dungeons I explored felt pointless, akin to the Chalice dungeons in Bloodborne. If you follow the recommended path through the game, you will likely be severely underleveled for the first main boss so exploration of optional content is clearly encouraged by design. Sadly, I don't find the exploration in Elden Ring to be interesting enough for the time investment required and this is the main reason why I don't plan on finishing Elden Ring, while I do plan on finishing DS3. However, many people love the aspect of exploration and discovery in Elden Ring so you may have a very different experience from me. Story: Like all the prior Souls titles, the story of Elden Ring is told cryptically in fragments mainly from NPC dialogue and item descriptions. George RR Martin was involved in the writing which I never would have guessed since the lore seems to basically be a reskin of the prior Souls titles. There are 1:1 equivalents for almost everything. The Elden Ring = First flame, Tarnished = chosen undead/ashen one, Site of Grace = Bonfire, Crimson Flask = Estus flask etc. Souls games have always required multiple playthroughs to unlock all the different endings and different NPC questlines to piece together the lore. The lore is often rich and interesting but I frankly don't have the time to go through the effort and will be watching some youtube lore videos to experience the story. Some people love this mysterious style of narrative and I enjoyed it with the prior Souls games as well. However, it really is just feeling like more of the same at this point and even the basic premise is similar to the prior games and I guess I was hoping for something fresh. Overall: Elden Ring is a very good game but isn't for everyone. Fans of the Souls series who just wanted more of the same will enjoy this and newcomers who don't mind the challenge will likely get **** in as well. However, for players like me who enjoyed the Souls games but were expecting something new, Elden Ring falls shorts. Maybe I just don't like open world games? 7/10.
I really dont get how people can call this unfinished boring time waster a masterpiece. I mean even the controlls are striaght outta PS2 era. The whole game has no structure or balance. Everything, from the dialoges to the menu to the enemy strength to level design is pure arbitrariness. This leads to undeserved deaths like (sprint button is also dodge button. Okay so far but when you hit and HOLD, the character still makes a giat jump backwards) which sure has cost millions of runes. Sorry I can not unsee stuff like this. It would be EASY to fix this by making the character only dodge when the button is pressed short and on hold the character goes into sprint mode (like in every game since 2001 or so) I dont know if this is intentionally BAD game design or if they simply didnt knew better.
First game in a long time where you get exactly what you payed for and exactly what was advertised, no micro transactions, no battle pass, just a massive playground where the only one limiting your enjoyment and progression is you. The only thing as grand and marvelous as the world itself are the horrors attempting to keep you from your goals. Elden ring is as hard as you make it.Flaws are few and far between (a few npc quests were unfinished and guess what, its already been patched-looking at you coz!). I wish other game developers put as much love, care, and dedication to its games, its fans, and its employees as FromSoftware has.
Excellent game, runs poorly on computers, but I was able to fix that and never noticed any issues again in my 50 hour playthrough. One issue I do have with this game though is the sheer absurdity of the damage late-game enemies do, I'm fine with bosses doing that damage, but some random bug guy wiped out half of my 2000 health in a single attack, otherwise solid game.
An amazing game! One of the most complete game that's came out in years Literally can't stop playing
This is the game that makes me feel like a kid again that I have been waiting for.
I delete my first review now that I have put more hours in the game and is my second play through. its a 9/10.
Definitely a solid 8.7/10, but could be better. I originally would have made it an 8.5/10, but they added an update that lets you finish Alexander's questline. Ultimately, if you enjoy Dark Souls 3 and are okay with tweaking settings to get better performance, I would recommend you to try out this game. It's honestly one of the best games I've played in several years, probably since 2015.
I just wanted to say thank you to all the gamers out there that bought all of the other FromSoftware games, if they didn’t they absolute masterpiece would of never existed. I tried Dark Souls and just couldn’t get into it, was just a little to linear for my liking But this games many weapons, armour, enemies and exploration spots makes this the ultimate open world experience, And of course the actual fighting never gets old, the epic boss fights are challenging but satisfying. If you love your open world RPG games this is a absolute must, it has made me realise how mediocre 95% of other games are,
The game crashes, error 0xc000001d 7 times today it's really annoying. I really hope this will be fixed in the next patch. But when it works I have fun.
The performance on PC has some problems, but it's not as horrible as many say, in my case the game was played with dropped frames at times (but after patch 2 several problems were solved). It's a typical soulsborne game, but with many new elements and a mixture of things from previous Miyazaki titles, excellent open world, beautiful music, dynamic gameplay, the story is incredible (as far as I'm concerned) and above all, a Spectacular design of characters, monsters and creatures. Sure, the game has its level of difficulty, but being an open world gives you the chance to equip yourself to the best of your ability and then face the bosses and mini-bosses, that's what's beautiful and engaging about the game, it's difficult, yes , but it allows you to expand the possibilities for you to improve your level, and by making more and more effort, it rewards you, and with those rewards you improve to later face the most powerful enemies. The game doesn't treat you like a fool, rather it wants you to get better and by getting better, more powerful. It is clearly a very good title. 9/10
Game is awesome and very addictive! The world is beautiful and full of dungeons, bosses and items, that make it very fun to play. Graphics are Ok, but the design of the enemies is awesome. The general art direction of the game is nothing new or original but it has some wow moments and locations. And then, it has its errors: weird collision boxes only for the player, like when you hit walls with your weapon cancelling your attack (but the enemies hit through it and kill you) camera issues (during combat means you are dead), z-targetting just doesnt work, "cheating" combat mechanics for the enemies disguised as high difficulty, the world feels dead, unbalanced weapons/builds, and sometimes feels like an open world battle game instead of a RPG. Maybe some patches can fix some of these things. :)
I finished the game, I liked the game very much. I want to highlight, not very good optimization (there are FPS gaps). And I'm so happy, I will definitely replay it again!
Early game: 6 out of 10 Mid game: 10 out of 10 Late game: 2 out of 10 Overall fun but scales horribly. Plus you need a guide for everything, typical from soft.
One of users tell "please play the game before writing a review about it" . Thats a very true advice. However i couldnt play this game more than 2 hours. that wasnt because the game was hard. i have RTX 2070 on my tower , and i have 1080 p monitör. i couldnt get 60 fps continually. mostly it drops a lot. i wonder What kind of set-up is there for those who give high scores to the game?
Being a souls fan, I'm pretty disappointed in this game ... for so many reasons ... * there's no innovation whatsoever. it's more of the same of ds3 * quest system cannot apply the same way it did to ds3 for example, simply because the world is so HUGE ... and u'll either miss on too much or just forget about it altogether if u don't use a guide ... which is a very bad way to play a game ... cause what's the catch?! watch and apply * Most of the world looks really bad ... esp caelid ... it simply looks horrible ... like an unfinished scribbled draft * no story unless u watch looong lore videos * Opening cutscene voice acting is pathetic and mostly all npcs' * bad performance * world feel empty most often * reskinned enemies .. even bosses! * no skill required .. just level up or be a mage and u'll be fine * hitboxes are pathetic and hits from enemies ignore walls while urs deflect normally! * arrows and magic ignore enemies .. and enemies' magic reaches way further than ur Same magic * sometimes u can't decide how come some lightweight enemies have so much poise .. even more than u do despite the fact that ur armor and weapons surpass theirs by so much!! all in all the game is just tiresome and feels like a chore .. nothing original .. just scraps of previous games molded in an unfinished world 4/10
Ok, this is a review that i never wanted to write but here we go. Fist the good: the world looks amazing, locations and enemies are diverse and boy oh boy, this game is HUGE! The secrets are everywhere, weapons are cool and there is tons of quality of life improvements. World building is up there with the best they ever produced. There are a lot of moments that i caught myself looking at my screen with my eyes wide open, gaping mouth and a genuine feeling of awe. This game really nails down the exploration experience! Now the negative which are without doubt not a lot, but are - for me at least- borderline game breaking: Game runs like absolute crap on my 3070, 32Gb Ram, 10700K rig. I run every other title on the market on max settings, no problem, but I'm getting constant stutters on this one. The one thing that a From game cannot have is **** performance, as everything can kill you in the blink of an eye. It's been a month already that the game is out and it's as if the problem is not even addressed anymore in the updates so at this point i'm starting to doubt that they'll ever fix it. I also have a base PS4 and I find the thought that i should have bought the game there as it'd have much more stable performance to be at least infuriating. And that brings us to the second issue: Balancing is shockingly bad. Almost every weapon is OP. Almost every enemy can 1 shot you, there are dogs that can literally 1 shoot you in this game, I wouldn't be so salty if we are talking about bosses but plain old mobs doing so much damage while you have the best armor and a ton of vigor, that's just bad balancing. This game needed a bit more time in the oven i think and it's a shame because a lot of people were counting the days for it to be released and i was one of them. It can be a 10/10 but right now, its definitely not there. From Software, all i will say is, i really thought you were better than this.
Everything in this game is amazing. From the world that is wide and full enough of enemies, unexplored dungeons and unknown secrets, to the vibe that the general gameplay gives which feels like you play a truly evolved souls game. They have massively enhanced hitboxes (made them more precise). The lore is very rich and interesting.
Painfully average game that doesn't meet the expectations. It is by no mean bad, but it was designed with quantity in mind instead of quality, and it shows. I'll get the technical issues out of the way now : Easy Anti Cheat is a massive joke that leeches performances like nothing while being useless to prevent cheating. Disabling the anti cheat is easy, greatly improves performances but prevents online play. Worth it if you ask me. The game simply doesn't run well on otherwise decent PCs. The combat is as low as it's been in all souls game. I did not play as a caster so I can't tell if it's better, but melee combat is so repetitive and unsatisfying for a few reasons : Elden Ring has Dark Souls 1's style of poise coupled with bosses that do nothing but spam force you into a reactive, passive playstyle where you only exploit the small opening to use one ash of war/charged attack/jump attack to go back to dodging. The world is also incredibly repetitive, once past the first area you'll have seen most of the structures, enemies and bosses. A lot of them are simply copypasted and it gets old fast.
I have doubts if this is the best souls Fromsoftware has created, disputing the title with Sekiro. It feels like a fitting end to the more medieval souls, a grand and exciting adventure in a world that makes you want to explore for hours. After 200 hours of gameplay I still feel like I have a lot of exploring to do and will start a new game soon to face certain bosses again. It feels bigger and more alive than dark souls, not necessarily harder which is not a bad thing.
Peak of rpg games, there is no discussion if you downvote this game is only cause you play kids games
Incredible game, bad port. An amazing experience overall, but occasional crashes and freezes are annoying. Still giving a 10 because the game itself deserves it.
this game is very bad and **** love getting one shot killed and im lvl 150+ its great this game is very bad and **** love getting one shot killed and im lvl 150+ its great this game is very bad and **** love getting one shot killed and im lvl 150+ its great this game is very bad and **** love getting one shot killed and im lvl 150+ its great this game is very bad and **** love getting one shot killed and im lvl 150+ its great this game is very bad and **** love getting one shot killed and im lvl 150+ its great this game is very bad and **** love getting one shot killed and im lvl 150+ its great
Great game with lots of potential, the first 30 hours of this game were amazing, but largely over hyped. 50 hours in, and the game falls apart. After beating certain story bosses, the difficulty level scales dramatically and largely invalidates any work you've put into building your character. Boss design repeats itself over and over. The PC performance issues don't seem like they're going to be addressed either.
Is magnificent. Just the perfection of souls games. Maybe not for everybody but is with no doubt one of the best games in history.
This is basically peak of what Fromsoftware has ever done. All attacks feel like they have a place in combat, magic feels fluid and snappy, bosses are **** insane even more than usual, areas are outright beautiful, artstyle, lore and story are one of if not the best I have ever seen in gaming. Honestly, my all time favourite and overall a Magnum Opus of Miyazaki's lifework.
This game make me wonder before I play I just fear about it too hard for me but when I farm and try to practice my skill it very enjoy and Finally I play this game to the end.
One of the worst games i have ever played. Awful and outdated in pretty much every aspect possible.
Terrible performance. Running up to date drivers and firmware, running 5950x, rtx3090, 4000mhz cl16 ddr4 and pcie4 nvme ssd. Stuttering mess. Reasonable art direction with ps3 era graphics. Roll simulator. Considering how much dodging there is, dodging is what should be customisable - not combat. Bad customisation with controls too.
Most compelling open world design seen in a long time, culmination of From's gameplay learnings and great character creation, builds and fashion options. Some of the best bosses in From's catalogue and great world building.
Game is probably good but the performance issues on PC are preventing it from being playable in any reasonable manner. I will update the review if the PC performance issues are improved. 3080TI, 5800X isnt enough to prevent stutters and poor performance...
The atmosphere is there like in the From Soft but I thought it was less "mythical" than in the previous titles. Mostly because there is a ton of mini-boss and because bosses' fight misses some greatness IMO. The last fight is epic but I was so bored by the game that I have overlooked it. I won't do a new game plus, IMO it's not worth it. The game balance is pretty **** bosses can be really hard and so easy it's boring. The game stutters A LOT because of an anti-cheat engine that does not prevent cheaters and people from exploiting bugs. I usually love From Soft games but for me, this one missed the target. I really really tried to like this game but in its current state I really don't.
Easy 10/10, despite the technical issues. Maybe I got lucky, but outside of some annoying crashes, I didn't experience anything enough to detract from my overall experience. Haven't felt like this about a game since BotW.
Playing on the pc and it only crashed once, and it was my fault for opening too much tabs 10/10, must play, really good
I have 45 hours of gameplay, this game is beautiful. It's most like Souls Game not Sekiro, it's not a game for everyone. Great Bosses, great atmosphere, great npcs. This game got a lot of easter eggs from another souls games and it makes gratifying. Bad points: recycling of dungeons and fps drops. I've hope FS can fix it :)
Cons -No quest log and little to no quest tracking. -NPCs give little to no info on your goals -The horrible graphics from Dark Souls 2 only got a slight upgrade. -Dark Souls 2 and Elden Ring have almost the same zero to hero story -The story is horrible. -The dialogue is horrible and at times incoherent. -Monitor refresh rate capped at 60Hz. -All the menu and tutorials are in game-pad format not keyboard and mouse. -The knucklehead who created this game had 6 opportunities fix all of this, but was too lazy to do so. Pros -My money was refunded.
166hrs in and I can't wait to keep playing. An absolute masterpiece for those that it appeals to.
The Souls Formula combined with an beautiful World fits better than i thought. Edit: I was hyped at the Beginning but i think its not as brilliant as i thought from the Start. There are many copy/paste Bosses. Still an ok Game i guess.
I have absolutely no idea how this game got such high review scores, I understand we now live in a world of craziness but this is next level alternate reality, WTF PEOPLE? The graphics are ok, there is UW support but the developer has made a conscious decision to block it by adding black bars which sometimes load in shortly after the game starts The voice acting is hilarious and to be honest it gives the game some unintended personality because it has none any where else. As a character speaks it is as if at the same time he / she is chomping away at a bowl of cornflakes like an old N64 game Everything including your own character moves like a robot with the jump option being an afterthought as it has no animation before jumping and on landing, it is funny though so I will give it that The menu screen is like something from a Sinclair Spectrum 48k before most of u were born and looks dam right ugly The performance is terrible, the frame rate is locked, characters outside of your view stutter around the environment which is more noticeable if you use the mod that remove the black bars The missions if u can call them that is boring the game is boring, it looks boring, it seems the developers were bored making it. I could go on and on but what is the point when so many people have given it such high scores, it makes no sense in this reality, it does not. No wonder other companies that I wont mention have posted shocking responses to this games success and I am pretty sure like me they are searching for the portal so we can get back to our own parallel universe where peoples expectations are slightly higher where unpolished games like this farce gets a 5/10 UNINSTALLED RANT OVER.... PEACE LOL
The game itself is amazing. It's probably one of the greatest games I've ever played. The PC port is so poorly optimized, I can't give it the 10 it should've deserved. I'm running a RTX 3080 and R5 5600x, and the stuttering is incredibly immersion breaking, and has caused me to lose a few boss battles. If they fix the performance issues, I'll update my review to a 10/10. Also, a game in 2022 shouldn't have a 60fps cap, especially when high-end hardware like mine can handle much higher, even at max settings.
I was so excited for this game but it's unplayable due to motion sickness. No options available that help like FOV. It's a huge problem that hasn't even been addressed publicly but has been brought up by many in news articles and Reddit. I hope they fix this game. Also the lack of ultrawide monitor support is surprising.
Absolute masterpiece. Was never into the Souls games before this, Elden Ring is gorgeous. Great story, surreal fantasy mixed with gritty horror vibe. The combat and movement do take some adjusting to, but are excellent once you get the feel for them. On pc, have only had one instance of stuttering and it was over almost instantly. Game of the decade for sure!
In 2011 I was respecting people who play this game because I thought souls are hard. But now I know those games just have iritating sword swing mechanics for last 11years. If you learn to roll you are almost immortal. Game getting easy. League, CS are WAY harder. Souls are ez singleplayer de-stressing dancing with bunnies on the meadow games. ps its true. As exploring game it's 7/10. Plot and gameplay 0/10 boring almost not existing. Fine game to relax for +/-50hours not gonna lie. Not worth the price.
I've written an elaborate and long review explaining why this game is an 8/10 even without the optimizations issues, but this site **** and has completely deleted my review.. so trust
It's a very empty game. If you're interested exclusively in challenging hack and slash gameplay then you may enjoy it. If you're looking for a plot or narrative, or any sort of actual substance, you will not find it in Elden Ring. The open world feels devoid of life. You'll find yourself doing the same thing over and over again, but in different areas. You have to hunt for content outside of combat in a bad way. I just don't know what else to say, the game feels cadaverous. It's got no soul.
Very good game. 9/10. Reusing bosses and dungeon is the only one problem)))
After 140 hours of gameplay, this is clearly rushed and unfinished game. Dont even get me start with reuse enemy and boss.
one of my favorite games I've played this year. the only problem I have with the game is that The performance is not that good on some computers. but other than that this game is incredible
dark souls in open world?...i was worried but from software really nailed it...great story rewarding exploration and the gameplay is top notch a genuine masterpiece
This game is just great…. It’s world is vast it’s rich in lore and it’s totally worth the $60 paid! I have already spent about 200 hours on the game and yet I’m only still half way in it!!!! So you can imagine! There is a lot of replayability as well of the game! I need to rate this game a 10 due to many trolls who are purposely putting down the score to 0… (these people are either other games devs who are jealous of the game’s success) or just people who don’t know how to enjoy a good game.
An absolute masterpiece, FromSoft has taken everything they've learned from previous games and put the best of it into this game.
I haven't finished it yet, still i love to get my time exploring things around, the feeling of fear and adrenaline you get when getting to a new zone and the relief and satisfaction of killing a hard boss is something only this genre can offer. Perfect Game
Stutter for PC still not fixed. So many connection errors. Game is visually stunning even running on a fairly old engine. Most interesting game I've played for a long time, even it's not perfect but I'd still recommend it.
267 hours played to date. 1200 hours in DS3. 600 hours in DS2. Maybe like 200 in DSr/PTDE. E: Update: In 250 hours I have had one co-op where I actually ran an entire 30 minute map clearing session without disconnect. This is a historic first. The multiplayer matchmaking is really bad with rampant disconnects. I am directly connected with 1000 down myself. Over 200 hours in and well, this is probably one of the worst overall experiences I have had with the Souls genre. Context for this review, I have historically put over 500 hours into FS Souls games, as a result, I am looking at Elden Ring as a "1000 hour" game to replace Dark Souls 3. The one constant FS Souls genre had was every game improved the MP aspect, here it takes a huge step back. If the question is, "Will I get my money value out of this game" the answer for you is "Yes". Get it, but remember, if you do this game has forced co-op invasions so you will deal with people coming into your game to kill you. Also, please understand, they will be rather well geared because they are always fighting groups on invasions. If you are looking for something to peacefully play with your friends, I highly recommend Nioh 2. FromSoftware seemed to go out of their way to make this game as rewarding and accessible as possible and in doing so, I believe they may have over stepped their bounds of what was once a well designed, concise, and impactful journey. The result is a convoluted mess of confusion, missed events, recycled bosses and field enemies, and gank mechanics that just make everything feel so bland. Outside of this, the game takes a few serious set backs. You can no longer be invaded solo, unless you use an item which removes the cool down timer for invasions. So you are invaded non-stop. The traditional souls experience is completely lost. You can either pvp solo or play solo, but not both. This makes the entire game feel very lonely, furthermore, most invaders are now focusing on the cheapest builds possible because every invasion is 3 people waiting for them. The invasive multiplayer interaction, which I mostly play souls games for is no longer there as a solo player. You either have to summon co-op players, which ruin your experience of the game, trivializing content, or be forced to run massive quantities of land on foot just to be invaded. This effectively ruins the game for me as the traditional souls experience is no longer there, despite the fact they could have allowed solo invasions in dungeons. The irony of this is they left in the "hunter" group that hunt "red invaders" except it's never used because hosts don't use the item since there is no need as invasions are co-op only. Even if they did it would just be 4 people versus 1 under leveled invader. So people who are new to the game and the mechanic are just not going to bother and it's really hurting the active invading pool. As it stands solo, I am invaded by the same few repeat people in whatever bracket I click my solo invasion item on. They usually die enough that they just stop invading me or leave my game. What FS should have done is allowed solo invasions, automatically spawned a blue covenant hunter next to the player on a red invasion. This way, they could have alleviated the loneliness and provided the host a phantom who seeks player vs. player and is likely properly geared and tuned for it. They could have taken this a step further by allowing hunters to invade the invader's world as in DS2. No auto invade areas? Where are the bell bros, the Aldrich Faithful, the Rat men? Another lost opportunity to use hunters to better the hosts and broaden their horizons. Long term value is lost here. There was so much opportunity to carry on the improvements made to MP over the years. Instead... We get this. Co-op people are not happy because they are always invaded despite just wanting to play with friends. Invaders are not happy because every invasion is a really tough match up. Solo hosts get no pvp anymore, unless they use an item where they can only pvp. No one wins.
This game is a sign of just how poor the gaming industry has got lately that games like this are deemed to be ground breaking and best game ever made blah blah blah. My gripes with the game: - the game is unbalanced tf. One minute you one shot main bosses then next minute you are getting one shot by a rat. - the crafting system is pretty much pointless - the game has a very poor story - The graphics are dated - the voice acting and audio is laughable - game has major glitches. Was worried it would brick my 3090 - the stuttering is a mess - the armour is just for cosmetics pretty much - the bosses are reskinned constantly - the side quests are a dreadful guessing game mess - the puzzles hardly make sense. - the dungeons are repetitive - some of the secrets are so poorly designed you basically need to spend the game hitting every wall with a stick - you spend ages working through areas to get loot you can't use - the classes don't actually mean anything - the leveling system is boring - the game tries to be edgy by not explaining anything which means you can miss integral parts - the combat is a clunky mess. The game isn't mechanically **** is just badly designed - the game endlessly jump scares you with unavoidable enemies attacking around corners...this isn't fun gameplay - online multiplayer is terrible - most of the spells are useless - the lack of variety of weapons per class. Basically have one staff all game - the platforming and jumps are painful - fall damage is a nuisance - the UX menu is terrible. Very hard to locate items with ease. - putting dash on the same button as dodge is beyond stupid and being unable to remap it is even worse - the cutscenes are terrible and lag like crazy. Also the loading times are a blast from the past I could honestly go on and on. This game is thoroughly unenjoyable to complete. The longer it went on the the more of a chore it became to complete. The only reason I gave it a 1 is the map is big and the art syle is niche. Apart from that... don't buy this
First I experienced at least 5 crashes on Elden Ring PC. Over 200 hours in and it's was worth every minute. This is not my first FromSoft game but it is the first one I beat. I am so ready for new game plus. 10/10
Elden Ring is a totally average game. Don't believe the trolls and the toxic community talk. Many people consider From Software to be the originator of the Souls genre. It actually has its origins in Nihon Falcom. Therefore, according to them, Miyazaki is a messiah. However, Miyazaki and the Souls team is still making the same mistakes. Objective problems: -Hitboxes are not good. There are times when it reminds me of the DS2. -Boss designs are very unbalanced. They didn't really work well with many bosses. -The game gets too repetitive. Open world exploration is nice, but it gets boring quickly. -There seems to be a lot of items, but in the end, a few items are the most useful. The game forces you for make to broken builds. Because some boss designs require it. All builds look alike. For example, more than half of even PvP uses blood builds. -Optimization is still not fixed and every update is getting worse. -Spells are powerful. Playing spell builds are more advantageous in many ways. -Camera angles are not good. It really causes trouble. When the number of enemies is high, you cannot control field of view. -Lore quality is definitely a controversial topic. However, it has the same lore in other Souls games. Only their names have changed. George R. R. Martin is just PR work. -Enemies are just based on nonstop spawn attacks with endless stamina as like most of bosses. -Many of the bosses repeat themselves. Most bosses are either the same or reskin version. -The hit feeling is not good. Especially the bosses don't even react properly to your attacks. -It has a toxic and cancerous player base. -Artificial intelligence problems. A real disaster. -It is a headache for some attacks in the game to pass through objects. Conclusion: This game is not a masterpiece. Not on a new ip. It's just Dark Souls 4 with open world.
Probably the best game ever made. Elden ring is unlike any AAA game in recent memory, delivering on both exceptionally high quality design and an incredible quantity of content. I was constantly stunned at the combination of high quality experiences with an expanding map showcasing more content than the last several games I'd played combined. FromSoft games always require you to actually be good at the game but its worth it to struggle & persevere through this world. Also, I played this on PC with a controller and didn't encounter any framerate or other issues.
Feels like a "Souls-like" instead of an actual Souls game. Late Patch that adds NPCs and Quest shows game was not even out of beta on launch. Reading critic reviews make it quite clear they never made it past the 20 hour mark before publishing as the game's issues take a massive spike after the first area. Most non-story bosses are repeated ad nauseum (fight, refight, refight, now fight two at once). Some story bosses were even reskinned as later story bosses! Feels incredibly lazy. Hitboxes and enemy range is still horrible. Enemy attacks and projectiles go through all solid walls. Boss AIs just stop attacking every now and then, breaking the fight and turning it into a cakewalk. Has happened 3 times since I got to the capital, easily 50 hours into the game. Homing spells are nigh-impossible to dodge, specifically on horseback. Normal enemy magic does 70-80% of health with 50 VIT. Combat consistently feels like you're cheesing everything or getting 2 shotted. Combat design is the worst since Dark Souls II--which is exactly what this game feels like. Story - Fromsoft/10 World - 10/10 Combat Design - 3/10 Fanbase - 0/10 This game actively put me off fromsoft games unless they're directed by Kazuhiro Hamatani. Patch released weeks into launch fixed a ton of hitboxes and poise issues, but they still feel terrible. Does not feel like they actually play-tested combat. Game feels terrible to play after Bloodborne and Sekiro--almost actively hostile towards the player. Also the fans throwing slurs at you for even bringing up issues that were addressed in the patch is hilarious. A fan base that refuses to have an actual discussion about the game instead of slavishly worshipping everything Miyazaki produces.
The best game ever made. Skyrim or Zelda are not even close. Fromsoftware are the best
The game let's you... 1. Upgrade your weapons 2. Summon and upgrade AI spirits 3. Let's you level up 4. Summon other players to help 5. Move on to another area and progress on something different. What else do people want? I'm all for accessibility, like better color blind options and such. But the game gives plenty of avenues to decrease difficulty.
Genuinely have no idea what the review bombs are talking about. The graphics in this game really shine in later zones. I haven't had any frame drops since the recent patch despite my old machine. The game is hard but rewarding like every from game. The only complaints I understand are "no ultra wide support" and "framecap 60" but I don't use ultra wide and I'm good with 60 frames
simply an amazing game this is my 2nd souls like with Jedi fallen order being my first (idk if that counts but whatever) and this is simply an upgrade in every way. I feel like there's so many different play styles and so many builds this has so much game play and aside from some bosses i feel that they are all fair and enjoyable. and regarding the fps issues i found that with mine below minimum specs GTX 1650 i could get 40-60 fps which i think is acceptable (this was with some mixed graphics settings but texture on max.
The game is great, but the optimization ****, they can fix this problem ...
Like many people, this game made me feel like I was a kid again. A kid so excited by a game, by all the options, that he cannot disconnect from it! I had dreams about it. I played it more than 100 hours and I enjoyed all of them. On my computer, I personally think the game is beautiful (I have a GeForce RTX 2080). The open world is amazing. What strikes me is that you can always see super far away, with numerous details and even if you doubt it, yes you can reach all these places that you can see from the top of the cliff or the bottom of the castle. All of them will have a secret to uncover. Yes exploring is rewarding, and even relaxing (despite the numerous and hard fights). I enjoyed the interaction with other players for the hardest fights. I enjoyed the views, the bosses, the dark fantasy spirit and decorum. I disliked the fact that I had to google some accessories to understand what they are needed for. I enjoyed the open spaces, the castles, the dungeons, the weird characters I encountered ("let me touch your fingers..."). I laughed when pierced by an arrow of twice my size that I did not see coming. I almost cried after losing A LOT of runes ! I banged my hand on my table when I ALMOST killed numerous bosses. In short, it is a great experience. They did a great job. It is hard to understand how people can complain to such an extreme because there is no wide screen option, or because they experienced one bug here and there. It is the best game I have played for a while and I am sad I am reaching the end because I loved exploring this map. Go for it!
Horrible PC port - bad keyboard/mouse implementation - feels alien to a PC Release 2022 without ultrawide monitor support!... Release with Easy-Anticheat preventing customer to fix their lack of ultrawide support using e.g. Flawless Widescreen! (I know there is a workaround and use it - but this should not be required to play a simple game in 2022) Slow mouse movement hamperes the playing experience Only got like 5-10 min. in back-and forth to OS to fix widescreen, google for mouse issue, google for flickering in the far right and left screen (uncomfortable and annoying - breaks immersion) Played Elex 2 which is not perfect, but at least it ran without issues like you would expect from a game 2022. Elden Ring is bad even at 1.03.2 version.
From Software's best game to date. There may be aspects from their other work that were slightly more refined but this is their first attempt at making a truly open world game and they have absolutely nailed it. Truly the best open world RPG ever created. It is an endlessly replayable masterpiece. There may be some slight performance issues but it takes nothing away from the overall experience and is barely noticeable the majority of the time. To the snowflakes giving it a poor rating, plz just git gud ;)
I had extremely high expectations, and they were still surpassed. The amount of content blew me away, and even past 90 hours I'm still finding new things. My only issue with the game is that the non-linear design that comes with an open world makes it very easy to become over-leveled for parts of the content, which makes it less fun for me personally. Sad to hear about the pc performance issues some people are experiencing, I personally have had no issues playing on high settings with a 1070.
I have no idea what's going on with the other people, I don't have any performance or other problems. You can tell that the game was developed for consoles, so only the keyboard controls failed, so i play it with a controller on the PC.
I never liked fantasy RPG games as they seemed like too much trouble and while I admit that a lot of streamers and youtubers did compel me to try Elden Ring but eventually the game won me over . The world is so vast yet so engrossing I've spent tens of hours at once in Elden Ring without noticing the time. There are a lot of issues on the pc side like the target lock malfunctioning stuttering and overall game balance related issues but nonetheless I love this game to bits.
Absolutely fantastic. The game looks beautiful, plays the best out of the FromSoft games I've played, and has a captivating world.
It's fine if you like the current path FromSoft is going down. Otherwise not really Horrible PC port, locked to 60 fps, horrible performance issues, horrible graphical settings. Unacceptable for a supposed "10/10". These reviewers are embarassing themselves with these reviews and showing a complete lack of substance and credibility when they write these inane, pandering reviews. The combat is what it is, the now well established degeneration of the souls de facto series. Roll and poke. The most major addition is the lazy abundance of delayed attacks, the only thing FS could think of to spice things up for veterans. No mechanical diversity, virtual all bosses are a variation on the same theme, with just a slight different attack skin on top. A far cry from an amazing game, let alone the perfect masterpiece people are deluding themselves into thinking it is. A solid 6
I would probably give it a perfect 10 if most of the weapons/fighting system/combos were more fleshed out like the katana. You can clearly tell they're Japanese and only know how katanas work while they think claymores weigh 200 lbs(maybe 5 lbs realistically). I'd appreciate harder difficulty modes
the copy and paste was unreal I rolled my eyes seeing the same structures and layouts repeatedly and the bosses where worse, the amount of times the godskin bosses showed up was especially lazy. Also had some bosses just flat out go afk in the battle like the Dragonlord placidusax. Not a bad game, above average but the overhype is real
First the bad. Yes, there are random stuttering issues on PC. Yes, it doesn't offer a solid experience using a keyboard and mouse. For me personally, these haven't been as problematic as some of the negative review bombers here would have you believe. There are also some minor bugs that don't impact progression, and they have already patched a couple that I have run into. Now for the good. This game is a honestly a masterpiece. The level design, art, narrative, sound and game play mechanics are easily 10/10. To me it plays like Skyrim set in a Dark Souls universe, without most of the brutally punishing mechanics of Dark Souls. It has really hit the sweet spot and it simply feels super rewarding learning boss mechanics, and then changing your strategy until you end up defeating them. I've honestly been waiting years for a game like this to come along and have played 80 hours so far and feel like there's still so much left to discover and explore. I highly, highly recommend playing this game. Even though there are some minor frame rate issues at times, the rest of this game is a beast, and we should reward the developer by buying and playing it. I am hopeful they will fix the frame rate issues in a future update, but like I said it's not a show stopper.
It's 10/10 not too much water. Honestly most addictive game I've played since Skyrim, and I don't need mods. It might change for me in ten years. Let's see.
I was sckeptical at first, but after seeing dozen of vlogger on this game, I decided to purchase it... What I can say ? The atmopshere, the level design, the art direction is absolutely breathtaking. The quality, unity, and total dedication in the creation of this parallel universe inspire respect... Ok, there is some lag, and DPS drop, not enough serious for me, I am playing in 4K full max, and accept those FPS drop, ...
Likely one of the worst games i have ever played and i mean it! Extremely boring and outdated open world, 2011 graphics, no story, insanely bad PC controls, fps problems even with high-end GPU and worst part, awful outdated combat
Probably one of the greatest games I have ever played, and will ever play, in my lifetime. No micro transactions, no F2P, just absolutely fantastic gameplay, artstyle, level design, and most of all, bang for your buck. I’d pay over a hundred dollars for games if they were even remotely as immaculate as this game. 10/10 I can’t recommend enough.
Elden Ring is truly a masterpiece. From the design of the map, the plot, the boss, the music, and more, it's all well designed and carefully invested. The recent patch makes the game even better. 10/10
Absolutely dont understand who can give 10 points to this game. No story, stupid AI, almost nothing new or improved - friendly characters absolutely without any sense or action, you find them in some place and they say their two stupid sentences and stay there like idiots in same position till the end of the game. Enemies looks quite deaf, sneaking behind them in full gear is ridiculous. I dont see any new original thing in this game enemies are very nicely done but thats all, everything else was already here several times. Absolutely no reason to call this game of the year or give any higher score.
An excellent game poorly ported to the PC. All controls are designed for the console and the PC implementation is awful. Starting from basic things like the Escape key not being 'go back' in the menus, to essential combat maneuvers requiring 10+ minutes to google online. Halfway through the tutorial [actually on an online forum], I learned that you need to tell the game you are not using a controller to get tutorial tips for the keyboard + mouse. It would be incredibly simple to make sensible defaults for the keyboard (like using the numbers 1-9 to select weapons, spells or items), but no such effort has been made.
The overall game is excellent, with a large number of branch lines, huge maps, and excellent degrees of freedom. The disadvantage is that the optimization is not good enough. FPS drops frequently
Elden Ring is teaching an important lesson here. Hyped video games these days following trends, paying influencers and pushing unfinished products forgot that gamers don't care about battlepasses, skins, micro-transactions and other gimmicks. If you build a game with all its features at its launch, it works and if you concentrate on quality over quantity and listen to the community (i.e. don't treat gamers like idiots), the game will eventually sell itself. This is a GOTY and haven't enjoyed a RPG that much since Skyrim
The best From's game, it combines everything from their other titles and makes an incredible experience Just ignore the bad reviews here and look at how the game is very positive on steam, where you actually have to play the game to review it ;)
Absolute MASTERPIECE! This is a culmination of everything they've created, and it just oozes passion and competency! Considering it all started with Demon's Souls which wasn't taken serious at all and was expected to be a flop, Elden Ring truly speaks to the testament of From Software and their daringness to do something different and risky! It paid off in spades and other developers need to learn that playing it safe is why gaming has felt stagnant and open world particularly feels so samey and boring. Elden Ring has been fun to the max every single second ive played and From Software really knows how to engage the player and create an experience unlike anything! 10/10
The launch had some bugs on pc and this is clearly a console port, but overall this is one of the best games I have ever played. I am 98 hours in, and almost done with the game. This was my first souls game, though I have played other similar games that are less difficult. I think my favorite thing about this game is the sheer variety in how you can tackle it. There are so many viable options, and the most OP of them seem to have been, or will be nerfed to be more appropriate. My friends all use different builds and weapons, and we have all had such different experiences going into it. There is a level of freedom and exploration that Breath of the Wild started and Elden Ring expanded on substantially. It's not going to be for everyone, it's definitely hard, and unforgiving but fair most of the time. You can be a sweaty if you want, you can use summons and have friends help, you can be a mage, a 2h warrior, a stealthy rogue style build, the options and new game plus really do lend themselves to an expansive varierty. One of the best games I have ever played, truly a 10/10 game, and a breath of fresh air in a AAA environment where microtransactions and overly busy HUDs gimp what could otherwise be solid games.
Allthough the game had some stutter issues at first its gameplay whise tue best open world game ive played so far.
I feel that the reason there are so many negative reviews (aside form the review bombing which is just pathetic) Is due in large part to the difficulty of this game and this being peoples first time playing a game like this with people first starting the game getting absolutely destroyed by the first boss and thinking the entire game will be like this. Let me just say YOU CAN BEAT THIS GAME this series has gotten this reputation as being these unbeatable monoliths only made for the most hard core elite gamers and I have to say That reputation is **** these games are hard I won't deny that but the game has ways of making it easier. This game has so many ways of making it easier on the player in fights whether that be through spirt summons, player summons, items in the world that weaken certain boss or just finding better weapons and armor. I can't force you to love this game I can only ask you to give it a try because I do believe this is the peak of fromsoft games. PS. make sure to use a controller since mouse and keyboard controls in these games have always been dreadful
It's really fun in Singleplayer and obviously challanging, but the "Co-Op" is completly broken in my opinion and getting invaded also isn't fun, it's not like in Dark Souls, it just makes no fun to get invaded by some dude with a broken weapon and getting destroyed in Dark Souls it was far more balanced. Also they were many glitches and it's fine, but then also not, because players who want to have fun in the multiplayer get constantly invaded and then die to some dude in two hits.
Bad controls on PC. You get killed on and on because of this. So the game becomes unplayable. More observations: - If you manage to kill an enemy it respawns after you rested. - It is not possible to save with e.g. F5 so saving after a win is not an option. - There are no levels. So you can not turn the game to easy mode to at least see a little bit of the world you paid sixty (!) euros for. - You are tempted to play just long enough for Steam to refuse a refund. Do not buy this game.
Fantastic bosses and skillls, but poor interaction and disgusting monsters ruin the expolration. Luckily, side quests become integrity.
This game is a From Software game, not for everyone, but for those who like the genre, it's amazing. First thing, I don't think the game deserves a 10 because of poor optimization on pc, second, why do I gave it a 9? I've never played a souls type game, Elden Ring was my first experience with a From Software game, and now at 96 hours and planning in getting it up, I'm going to play all Dark souls, and Sekiro, these games are just art, pure art . At first you seem to have nowhere to go, no map, no hud indication, that's when you know what the devs want you to do, go explore, seek what you have to do in this enormous game, the gameplay is just better compared to the previous games, they took it almost to perfection, the progression of your character throughout the entire game, wich is massive, is so cool to be a part of, it gives you a feeling of achievement, joy. And as usual, builds, there has to be in a From software game, this game gives you tons of items to do experiments, and in the PvE, every build if made correctly, gives feedback to the player, you see what you have experimented with, and become proud, you used what the game wanted you to, for something better... Hope to have helped someone with this review, i wrote some things that i liked about this game, i say you should try it, everyone can beat this game, and that's other good aspect, but for now thats what i have to say, bye!
Playing this game made me think again about dark souls 2, now i call it a masterpiece
I've created a metacritic account just to write a review for this game. Let me start off by saying Elden Ring is the best game i've played since the Witcher 3, and besides that, is the most visually stunning game or media i've ever seen. My specs are the following: i7-8700K, 16gb G.Skill DDR4 3200, GTX 1080, m.2 evo 970 1gb I'm playing on max settings, 1440p, HDR on. The game runs fine, mostly 60fps with dips into the low 40's. It could be further optimized, but the game itself is so unbelievably good that you tend to forget all about the performance issues by the 1st hour of gameplay. Starting off, the game can be a bit disorienting. The map is gigantic, and besides a very general pointer guiding you in a specific direction, it can be a bit overwhelming. As you start exploring, very quickly you realize that the map is not just big for the sake of being big. Every single nook and cranny of the map has some adventure awaiting the player. From dungeons, to optional bosses, to powerful loot, incredible lore. About the lore, just WOW. Every From game (besides Ninja Blade) has spectacular lore, and it's what keeps bringing the fans back. This game's lore, because the game has the capacity to carry it, is extremely deep and varied. Every single item, structure, enemy or even clutter, is there for a reason. To tell an incredible and epic tale the likes of which you could never find anywhere else. The game doesn't hold your hand, and doesn't directly inform you of the details. Instead, it gives you the broad strokes, and trusts you to seek the truth behind this mysterious and dark world you've been cast into. No other game gave me a feeling like it trusts me to explore it, without guiding me to see everything it has to offer. No other developer is confident enough in its own creations to basically hide 75% of its content from the player, and trust the player to discover it by himself. Entire areas, loot and bosses are practically hidden until you fulfill a very specific set of instructions to reveal them, and every time you do make that effort, you're rewarded with another piece of the epic puzzle that is Elden Ring and the Lands Between. The combat is an amalgamation of everything that works in a soulslike game. From the posture breaking in Sekiro, to the fast pace of Bloodborne and the familiarity of Dark Souls, this is From combat perfected. All in all, i didn't expect much from Elden Ring. I expected From to crash and burn on their first open world game, and i wasn't too sure the Dark Souls formula could translate to open world. But it did. And it did it better than any game released for the past 10 years. Bravo From software, and thank you for this incredible piece of art
The fps lock and occasional framerate drops are annoying, but other than that the game is one of the best I have played so far.
Very, very awesome game! This my first soulslike game and i enjoy! :) Only few problems here: - some simple mob very unbalanced (i hope patchs reprair this) - few performace issues (but patch can reprair) - we no have good storytelling (but this world is fantastic, need more story whit voice acting, ingame cinematic, etc…) - Very very missing the questlog - pvp is lame and unnecessary freature
PC port was really bad for the first two weeks of launch, but the game is the best Souls game hands down. I'm amazed what they could accomplish, albeit repeated but harder encounters feel a bit weird in some of the cases.
I played 1 dark souls game previously, it was the 1st one and that was a while ago. I gave this a go, because the "open world" promise lured me in. Here is my No 1. problem: I don't know what I'm doing and why. Seriously, this is like a fighting simulation? Random enemies walking around in each area, so I go and fight them, they either turn out to be easy or nearly impossible. So I die, start from last check point, and don't go that way or run away. So I try to find a different location , hoping I can do something, which of course, kill some monsters , but I am losing the point, because they will respawn anyway as soon as I leave. So... what am I doing? Just go around and kill whatever be killed? Maybe i was hoping to have more content, more purpose. Other reviewers said, the game is huge, but if this is what I supposed to do for 100s of hours, sorry this isn't gonna hold up long. Whacking my sword around endlessly and I don't feel any progress made, I don't feel like i'm getting anywhere.
Played for 85 hours - never gets easier and story is so convoluted - not very enjoable. But a beautiful open-world if you like action / console-like games.
Barely playable with performance issues. Stuttering and low fps regardless of hardware. All that with subpar graphics for 2022. Terrible controls. Extreme input lag and inconsistency. Slow and sluggish combat. Many steps backward compared to any other soulsborne game. Critics' reviews are either paid or plain lies from fanboys. Huge disappointment.
10/10, everything bangs in the game -1 for performance issues still after updates. 9/10. will update to 10/10 if they fix performance issues. date - 20/03
This game is not flawless, but it deserves a 10/10 for 1 reason: it will change the gaming formula for AAA games for years to come (as seen in current gaming journalism). It has an unparalleled level of quality for a $60 game in its graphical fidelity, gameplay replayability, total game content, character customization, combat system, enemy variety, music composition, voice acting direction, map size, map environmental ambience, map verticality, explorable locations, and i can keep going on. For the sheer scope of the game, i am not surprised that there were minor issues at launch. But as of the current patch, this should have been addressed. I've seen larger games in GB with far less content to play struggle to get off the ground at launch. It has a simple story, that it immediately presents to you, and does not shove down your throat. You may, at your volition, tackle that story at anytime. Or you may explore the world around you with brimming life, in a endless Valhalla like setting. It trusts the player to explore, and allows for an almost endless customizable play choices. If you take the time, regardles if you have gotten gud, you can beat this game. If you are an action rpg gamer, and you do not mind dying, this is the game for you.
This game still follows the precepts of the Souls series, although it has become simpler than the previous parts, which I would not call a plus, but let it be, the game is still good and, as always, it is complex in an interesting way. Those who insult and underestimate the game for being too difficult, the only thing you deserve is a spit in the face.
This is a huge world, fraught with many secrets and mysteries, where you can spend dozens of hours without even killing the first story boss. Elden Ring is FromSoftware's best work to date and one of the best games of recent years.
Don't believe the over inflated fanboi reviews, they are either ignorant or willfully blind to the major issues that plague this game. Extremely overhyped and given the undeserved title of "best game of the century" and "a masterpiece" by silencing anyone who criticises the game. Boss designs are atrocious with some of the worst combos I've seen in a souls game. Map is big but empty, literal copy and pasted across entire regions. The gap in skill needed to play melee over magic is horrendous. Balancing is non existent. Don't even bother with co-op, it's the biggest ballache and half assed multiplayer experience I've ever seen. Not that it matters anyway, because doing anything outside of a dungeon will mean you'll get invaded every 10 minutes for "balance" reasons. The connections are so piss poor that your attacks won't connect even if you're right in front of them, making PVP the biggest joke in this game. We are now at patch 1.0.3, and yet despite the community screaming for better PC performance, they've completely ignored it, and made it worse in some instances, and given us instead some of the most stupid, unwarranted buffs and nerfs that they could have come up with, purely to appease the part of the community that only wants to suffer playing this game and demands everyone else does too. Don't bother complaining about anything though, the community for this game is so toxic and full gatekeepers that you can't actually criticise the game without being abused or told to "git gud". It's the worst case of Stockholm syndrome, it's like trying to talk to someone from North Korea. There's no point. The game isn't hard because of well designed bosses, enemies and movesets. It's hard because they kept tedious design decisions from older souls games, gave the bosses undodgeable attacks, the worst roll mechanic out of all the souls games, and allow the bosses to break game physics just to get the upper hand so you are constantly caught in a "gotcha" moment. Its not hard because it's a fun challenge, it's artificially hard. FS has let the hype go to their head and has made this game harder just for the sake of being harder, trying to buy into their difficult game reputation. It's just a dark souls rehash but made worse. Unless your a really big fan of Souls games don't bother with this one. It's seriously not worth your time and definitely not worth your money.
The best souls game ever made. Thank you From Software for this magnificent piece of art.
I loved the Souls series. Bought Dark Souls 1 for every platform and rerelease in the house. Every Dark Souls game is hard, but fair. Elden Ring is not fair. Past a certain point, regardless how much health you have or what armor your using, every single enemy will kill you in one or two hits. Bosses will always manage it in one. And the must annoying **** from Bloodborne and Dark Souls 3 is back with a vengeance. If you tend towards a defensive or slower play style, just skip Elden Ring entirely.
It’s awesome, it’s so addictive! Being open world it gave players more options to ‘git Gud’ if they ever feel stuck at any tough situation!
Honestly the best game I've played in years. Unlike other souls games this is friendlier considering your not being forced in any direction. If something is to hard you can just explore somewhere else that is closer to your level and come back way later. The map is big and takes around 120-150 hours to do everything.
Perfect 10/10. No question, if you are up for a challenging game that is one of the most beautifully done games you will love this. All the people leaving bad reviews are just noobs and scared of a difficult game im tellin you give it a go and play it longer than 5 minutes and plan on dying a lot. ITS A BLAST
aside from the fact this is a copy pasta of other souls games story wise, and the technical problems the pc version has, the true abomination is this games shoddy controls. this might be expected for a console game, but that **** is not acceptable. This goes so far that the only difficulty in this game is derived from the poor controls and stuff like enemy attacks clipping though walls and objects. had i known how bad that game is, i would have waited for it to come up in the steam bargain bin before buying.
I have some trouble running discord and Elden ring at the same time, but overall fantastic game
It's Elden Ring. Despite the performance issues on PC, it's still Elden Ring.
Have around 30 hours in on the PC version, I absolutely love this game. It has everything from excellent world building to addictive gameplay. I created an account just to say how amazing this is. It’s only once in a while we get a game on the same quality as something like breath of the wild and bloodborne
added black bars on purpose to prevent players from playing ultrawide. sometimes the game opens without the bars and looks beautiful. the company doesn't give a damn about pc gamers
This game is a masterpiece. It’s hands done one of the best games of the decade. It has a huge amount of content, the combat is tight and rewarding, and their are a lot of great bosses. I don’t understand the complaints about the fact that there are a lot of reskinned bosses. Most of the reskins have a different move set and I see them as mini bosses anyway and they’re still fun to kill even if they aren’t all hard. Most of the people rating it low have no patience and do not understand great story telling and game design. It’s product of this generation with wanting hand holding and everything given to them on a platter. They all want to play the same game that everyone else is making with easy combat and maps that tell you where to go.
Absolutely fantastic! Hours and hours of quality entertainment! And unlike certain other triple A games just released, no microtransactions!
I hate this **** game so much the enemies are so **** unfair and the bosses **** kill you in 2 seconds even if you're overgeared. 11/10 would buy again
Best game ever played since Breath of the wild. The world design is absolutly insane.
Too many performance issues and bad boss deisgn. Repetitive, too expensive.
I honestly don't understand why people are writing raving reviews for this game. Let's start with the good before we move on to the bad and the horrendous that is "Elden Ring" - Gorgeous (bosses, world, art, etc.) - Huge - Mounted Combat (Casting is way better than the sword play though) - The game plays well - Lots of armors and weapons, that are cosmetically cool - Sound design is really good Now the bad - Hyper aggressive Mobs that 2-3 shot you - Bend Curve for Stat Effectiveness but a Doubling Curve for monster health and difficulty, making end game extremely tedious and repetitive. Your char will shine midgame, but after that your increase in damage and survivability flatlines, while monster health triples. - Repetitive - Many, Many places, dungeons, etc. in the world are reused. - Depth of Field is confusing, the camera doesn't really have optimal rotation, you will often plunge to your death, and after you have you have to backtrack to your corpse, and hope that this time around you don't miss the jump, and if you do, lose all your runes... I mean... uff exhausting - The platforming and death from falling is absolutely horrendous. - Backtracking - The Combat just ****, I'm sorry. It's fun in the first halve of the game, but when fights start to drag out to 5 minutes per normal mob up to 10-15 sometimes 20 minute boss fights that you have to restart if you make a few bad dodges, it just get's tedious. Not to mention you'll be using the same spells/combat arts most of the time, so it get's extremely tedious and repetitive. - Best way to play a lot of the game is just by running past and skipping everything. - Most spells ****. - Questlines are confusing at best, there's nothing to guide you to understand what the game expects of you, and sometimes if you missed a part of the quest and progressed too far, the quest dies. - Bugs. - Balance is **** This game is overhyped, and the user score reflects that. I would honestly stop trusting any critic reviews, they have no idea what they are talking about, and are most likely hyping the game for a paycheck I would avoid this game for a few more months, if not year, and grab it on a sale. It has some esthetic, and you'll get some fun out of it, and it will at points frustrate the **** out of you with poor gameplay design. I guess fun if you are a sadomasochist.
Another unacceptable port from a studio that NEVER fixes their games, look at Bloodborne and dark souls 3.
This game is going to be the best game of this year, I strongly recommend playing it on Xbox Series X, the only platform where it does not give problems with lag or fps, from software did it again but this time better than ever, it brought together the best of all the video games they have released to date in one, with a beautiful open world as well.
Expected some innovation in gameplay, but it's just DS3 in an open world, with a horse. Said open world is not interesting, combat **** ass compared to Sekiro. Horrible performance, for graphics that can only be considered barely acceptable in 2022.
Freaking master piece! I love how out of the box it is, I never played a Souls game so coming in fresh into a open world game like this was like a breath of fresh air, compared to all of the stale open world AAA games you have out there. A solid 9/10 for me, i'd give it a 10 if the frame dips were fixed, and if the story was told just slightly better. But bloody amazing, people will be talking about this for years.
I didn't play the game but i respect FromSoftware think about their audience and making games for them but not only casuals. I am a casual too, but i can see when the problem is my lvl of play and when the game is actually broken. Here is the 1 option. If you can't pass the game becouse of your own skill, it's your problem, not a problem of the game. As Assassin's Creed player, i am sad that Ubisoft doesn't care about original games fans, but i'm glad that game studios, where people care about they're original fans still exist.
I know it has a huge fanbase but.... to me, this game is nothing more than an infinite loop of doge, attack game with very clunky and outdated attack animations... I can't believe in 2022 a game like this got so much hype and positive reviews! I tried to enjoy this game multiple times but couldn't play this dumb game for more than 5 minutes. I love change and hard games but this primitive dodge and attack type game.... hell no!!!
Looks like game from 2012. Not fun, vague and unfair in every aspect. Game made for weird masochistic people. Stay away if you value your mental health.
Refresh from the bloated Rpg these days Rpg was ment to be explored by you meet someone go in any direction you want and you have to play Elden Ring for get a taste of that of course it hard it was meant to be but theres is multiple way you can overcome most of them use spirit summons lvl them up summon other players even go other places lvl up try again.
Elden Ring has an absolute gorgeous world to explore and it never feels copy paste like so many open world games. The boss design is top notch and the customization options are absolutely insane! Whenever you get stuck on a fight you can now take a breather and go and do something else to train and better equip yourself. You never truly get blocked in. I haven't had much performance issues but I've seen some that have. This is honestly the best adventure game I've ever played and it definitely deserves to be held up high and shown as a great example of what gaming can be.
Absolute joke of a port. The game itself when it functions is okay, but on PC it's unacceptable to release it in this state. eta: don't get me wrong. It's massively overrated even when it functions properly. It's like DS2 but with the map copy-pasted 70 times. The bosses, music, enemies, locations are all low quality compared to previous games.
Elden Ring is phenomenal for anyone who considers themselves a fan of the Soulsborne series. It does have a heavy learning curve and can frustrate newer players but give it a chance and hopefully you will also see how amazing this game really is.
This game is simply awful, it does so many things and none of them are any good. It seems that From threw the whole kitchen sink this time around. It's like they truly embraced and thought they could make quantity over quality work.
Technical-performance: There were some minor technical issues at lauch (for me at least).I've not experienced any stutterings however there were small fps drops but it was very rare and only in huge open world areas.I've played at maximum settings in 1440p. My Rig is 3060ti+i7 9700K /2x8GB ram 3200Mhz and standard Crucial MX500 SSD. Generally my GPU was not stressed and was operating around 60-70% the drops were VERY rare in 90h of playing i've seen less then 10 times where fps was down below 60.I find it perfectly acceptable it's a lot better than for example God Of War was at launch earlier this year. Plot & World: Plotline is shrouded in mystery basic FromSoftware unless you really dig into it you will have some bare idea what is going on ;) . World is massive there is no other way about it. Where Sekiro was too small in my opinion this game is enormous to the extreme the amount of bosses/NPC/Hidden Areas etc is staggering. It took me 90h to explore most of it kill major bosses collect items for achievemnts etc. and that is only single playthrough considering there are 3 endings it just shows how much of content there is. Graphics & Audio From graphical standpoint the game is nothing special (not to say it's bad or anything) it's as expected though anyone who played any FromSoftware game is aware that they never rly stressed that part of game for me personally graphics are acceptable though some textures could use some more loving in 2022.Audio on the other hand is excellent as always the soundtrack from the game is great and creates some very climatic boss battles. Gameplay: Basically the Dark Souls system is back with additions.Those are: -Spirit Ashes - which are basically ghost summons that help you out. -Ashes of War - An enchant on weapons granting special abilites -Some new attacks like jumping attacks ,nice dual wielding, counters after block etc. It's basiclly time tested formula with new additions that keep the system fresh despite it's age. Conclusion: The game is great it delivers what was promised. An open world with countless paths that we can explore at our own **** excellent gameplay with countless exciting ( and sometimes infuriatingly difficult [Malenia - poor controler had some close encounters with table]) boss encounters. It is without a doubt a must play for all fans of souls genre 10/10 and a solid contender for 2022 Game of the Year.
My pc satisfies the minimum requests parameters to play the game and since I started to play I had only 3 soft frame rate drops (I play with max graphic settings), the game is perfectly beautiful in all of his aspects. I don't have all that problems the people critices so in my opinion this is a 10/10
Best "souls like" ever... I've been playing Souls 2 and 3, bloodborne, sekiro, nioh 1 i 2 but Elden Ring is my favourite... Optimization for PC: Best. 60fps without a single fps drop. Controls? Only controller.
Elden ring is perhaps the best soulsborne game, they took everything from there titles and put it into elden ring. The lore and story is quite interesting, bosses are pretty cool and awesome looking. I really do like the horse torrent you acquire, horseback battle is simple but makes some fights easier and some harder. Overall this is an amazing game and might be my favorite out of all FS games. Cons: Currently there are problems with the pc problem like stuttering, freezing, etc. M+K is bad but its a souls game, why arent you using a gamepad. Netcode is really buggy. It will disconnect a cooperator or invader randomly and quite often, like maybe 7/10 it will do it. All in all, once issues have been fixed, i recommend you should try this game, but its a difficult games and if you dont enjoy challenging games then maybe it isnt for you.
Best game I have ever played. Beautiful world, great story and amazing gameplay. Only thing holding it back are the performance issues on PC. Otherwise a near perfect game.
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ ++++ Best Game Single Player Game sincr Skyrim
Hate seeing this anywhere below atleast a 9. But it's an easy 10/10 for me. I created an account just to help this game's ratings. I'm 80 hours in and I can safely say it's the best game I've ever played. As a 30 year old man, it makes me feel like a kid again, even just thinking about playing it after work! If we are comparing games, this is objectively a 10/10. So majestical and mysterious. Dark cosmic horror mixed with open world medieval buildings. Different enemies, different locations, it just never gets old. I honestly don't know how I'm ever gonna play another "Ubisoft like" title again. The industry better step it's game up! Fingers crossed.
This game is absolutely amazing, exploring never gets boring as there's always something new to see or do. The game has multiple huge optional areas and engaging things that can keep you playing for hours. It's also extremely immersive, I haven't felt this since my first playthrough of Dark Souls 1. It has creative bosses, fun exploration, cool side quests, a HUGE map, and much more. I highly recommend this game to everyone, even if you aren't experienced with a fromsoftware game before.
Wonderful, beautiful game that struggles on all things fine tuning. A 7.9 that never quite reached an 8 for me. Love fromsoftware but while the aesthetic, bosses, and npcs of the game's world shine things like camera controls, jumping, and sprint mechanics feel clunky, you never know when you're gonna get stuck on a tiny rock divet / indestructible twig that prevents your movement and it WILL happen / cause you to get killed. Basically, you need luck to be on your side in a game that is trying to reward skill-based patient rpg gameplay. Things like level progression mid game, item progression, and game direction have their own clunkiness, trying to play the game without reading 5 tabs first on a second monitor will lead to boring sessions. Often you'll go through a difficult area only to find some semi-useful item within a build path completely opposite your own, and while getting through the area is satisfying in itself it ends up not feeling like it builds towards anything significant. Later in the game, these boss enemies get heavily recycled and upscaled, making the original satisfaction dim, and leaving a certain apathy toward future side areas. As far as the good of the game, the world IS huge AND beautiful, and you will have moments where you feel extremely badass. Though the stats screen is awful and cannot show comparisons of armor / items side by side, the armor itself is varied with all kinds of cosmetic looks. Weapons/Spells/Ashes all have a range and truly give a dnd type experience where the player can get custom as hell. Without spoilers, there is an area where the player can re-assign stats for a cost, which is a much needed feature that allows all types of mid life crisis. Ultimately (and this is speaking to my OWN experience), the bottom line was that after a certain point of exploring the beautiful map most of the time in this game just wasnt fun. I was either looking for fun in world, looking up fun online, or grinding mob filled rooms to get fun parts, all while carrying that passive fromsoftware 'die whenever wherever' game stress that does give some satisfaction to the experience. After trying a couple of different builds I found that typically there's way more fun to be had in completely overhauling a build every so often than in steadily carrying a build through the game. And that speaks to my opinion of the game. Most of the thrill is all the new things, the novelty, the possibilities, but once you've seen 50% of the enemies, explored what you want, and committed to a build path, you're in for a boring time grinding from boss to boss.
Absolute masterpiece ****. Simply put its the best game I have ever played by a long shot
This **** broken my joystick and i love it! 10/10, Ryzen 5 - 3600 Rxt 2060 32gb Ram 3000mhz playing full hd 60fps - because game limited
Yes this is the one of a few games that i give a 10/10 score, I never been a Dark soul or Demon soul fan, not because of the difficulty (I love challenging game and I'm a big fan of Sekiro) but because how slow the movement is, and no jump!!!, it just not my cup of tea. I love Sekiro, challenging, awesome combat system, awesome bosses (so sad that there is no dlc for it) so when Elden ring came, I was really considering should I order it or not, and in the end I gave a try. So? it is awesome, every complaints about Dark soul now is gone in Elden ring, the movement feel so smooth and you can jump (awesome). The world is beautiful, the graphic to be honest not at next level, but it is still beautiful, every lands, dungeons and runes are unique, the combat system is great, still I miss the posture and parry mechanic from Sekiro ( you can still parry if you get the right shield or weapon). Elden ring open world is one of the best period imo, you can explore every placer before the story route, even some of the area at the end game can be even explored very early, so it is also a very forgiving soul like game compare to previous From soft games. It's been a while since I was so into a game like this, spent around 60 hrs already, and this is easily GOTY for me, I downloaded this together with Horizon forbidden west in PS5 and after playing Elden ring, i feel Horizon is a bit boring now even I love Zero dawn (sorry Horizon fan). It has some optimization issue for pc but after some update now it is much better. After playing this game, I'm a big fan of From soft now can't wait for them to release some DLC for it.
Worst PC port and boring open world. Other than interesting bosses this game has nothing. It has Lore but no game story. graphics from 2013. Cyberpunk is less buggy on PC compared to this madness. To fromsoft, please do not make PC games. Pathetic excuse for souls like genre.
Good game, they have little performance problems but not create big problem.I'm playing with very good 1660 ti mobile .I would recommend it to everyone
The masterpiece of From Software in every single step. Variation of Battlefield and enemies,weapons incantations.
Elden Ring is the first big singleplayer game I have ever played for a considerable amount of time and it stunned me. There is so much to see and to experience, that the game has not gotten boring after 80 hours where I am not even close to 100%. Some great features I want to mention are following. 1. Diversity in playstyles: Magic is powerful, Weaponarts are easy to use, there are a ton of different weapons, combat while riding is intuitive and can not be abused for every enemy 2. Exploration & Open World: Despite of some other reviews I have read here, I think the overworld has much to offer. The areas are all unique with obvious high points in the bigger levels. Everywhere you go you find either a cave, a graveyard, some brutal bears, a merchant or even a random mini boss. And yes there is repeating content, however always with a need new aspect to it. The important loot, while quite often not useful for your specific build, is still almost always unique. 3. Design & Graphics: Fromsofts design is great as usual. The big levels look stunning and even the huge open world has not to hide from anybody. And yes the repeating ruins and the thick fog everywhere sometimes seem like lazy design, yet they did not make my experience any worse. And yes graphics are not top tier. Still they are by no means bad. 4. Difficulty: The difficulty is not nearly at a level of the ds games. For me as a starter this was quite welcoming as it takes some time to learn all of Elden Rings mechanics. Whit constant exploration and without losing to much runes due to dying, leveling up is quite fast. A danger this poses is that you can get overleveled really fast. For some enemys this just makes the fights faster, others however can get hilariously easy (a boss in an main level died after three hits in my playthrough). Still almost any enemy can and will kill you in seconds if given the opportunity. There is also the option just to progress to other areas early. Most areas are not locked as to be expected from an open world. 5. Enemy's & Bosses: Their complexity evolvs alongside the player. Basic knights fe. get more abilities in later areas. If you found a strategy for every enemy type they all are manageable. However ganks are deadly. (And mages **** your melee dude.) For the Bosses it is pretty much the same. With the right powerlevel they are all beatable. Some are made to easy by summons. And there are a bit many reskin mini-bosses. With just few alterations. 6. Controls on PC: I heard some complaints about playing without a controller. I can not confirm. With some keys changed controls still are not intuitive, yet they are also nothing abstract and are rather easy to learn. 7. Story and Npcs: Idk. They are either crazy, dead or gone. Seriously there are cool questlines and most of the npcs tell you a good portion of what you have to do, however you still either seem to need to Google some or just be lucky to progress at some point. For the lore it is probably the same. I feel like I have not grasped most parts of it. However I enjoy diving into lore analysis after finishing the game myself. Yes there are performance issues, however they seemed to correspond with other programs running, at least on my PC. In conclusion Elden Ring is by no means perfect, yet it still offers so much to anyone giving it a chance that I can not take any points away from my 10/10
Really disappointed in fromsoft for this. Combat is slow to the point of being almost turn based, boring, and way too easy. Most bosses are first try. it feels more like a circus than a fight. You see the same enemies and bosses over and over. Very lazy. Animations are silly and sometimes just ridiculous. Weapons and armor looks stupid. Lock on system is trash. Camera ****. Status effects go through shields. Lol why? Bad FPS stutters No story whatsoever. Terrible multiplayer and netcode. Co-op keeps dropping. PvP is laggy. Engine feels like its from 2005 Crashes and locks up. Glitches happen often. Soundtrack is boring, uninspired, and generic. Re-used sounds. Re-used animations (all the way from DS1) Mouths dont sync with dialogue or most of the time, move at all lol. Positive note, the incantations seem interesting. Overall not very fun and definitely not worth 60$. Feels like fromsoft just tried to exploit their audience for cash. Very lazy developer
On of the best games in last decade. And I'm not even a Souls fan. + gorgeous art design + atmospheric music + dark lore + refined "souls" combat + sense of accomplishment + while very difficult it's not frustrating (lots of respawn points and can fast travel almost without limits; being open world you can just run through difficult area until you leveled up - some rare/minor performance issues on PC
This game is like a really good spicy meal but the chefs put crazy hot sauce on it. the story of this game is completely eclipsed by the difficulty, at times theres enemies that are around your level, then you go through a door and uh oh you’re trapped until you spend 3 hours of your life trying to kill a completely unbalanced boss, not for loot or to progress any quests, just to escape the room would. That being said i would love a game to be made out of this story thats for enjoyment rather than whatever this is
Great game just needs to fix some bugs with clipping, tearing, and frames. Also some crowding and camera issues but everything else is amazing
One of the best game ever made. Maybe the best ARPG ever made. Surely the game of the decade. FS are artists, it's rich, long, epic, marvelous, addictive and most over we must discover the world without any arrow or help like all in the "modern" open world. Moreover the game is more accessible than previous souls game, you can make your game etc. a 10/10 well deserved.
I **** hate this game. No room for error, if you **** up you die in one hit. This game **** **** **** and balls. And hairy **** **** elden Ring. **** game.
The only bad critic you will find to the PC version of Elden Ring its they suffered from FPS drop...literally was their only reason to put a negative score Game lived for its hype, GOTY right here
Elden ring an eye-opening experiance I have now played more than 40 hours of Elden Ring. I killed two of the major bosses (out of three) and reached the Grand Lift of Dectus before I decided enough was enough. First, what the game does well. Feel and tone It lets you get a feel for the game without throwing things in your face. This could have been done better, but it is nice to experience a game where, as you go through, more unfolds before you. Bugs. This game is quite well polished. It is relatively bug-free. In forty hours of gameplay, I only ran into one serious bug. What the game does poorly. Music. Although the musical score is very nice, the music is poorly implemented. You know whether something is intended to be an easy fight or a hard fight, just based on the music, and it changes your tactics. When the music indicates this is meant to be a tough fight, you hang back and take stock a little to learn your opponents' moves. Combat. The combat is dull, repetitive, and cliché. You are playing in a Quick Time Event (QTE). In fact, the whole game is one long QTE. You see the horse rear back, hit dodge. You see the guy with the halberd pull their arm back for a lunging strike, hit parry. Every enemy has a slightly different indicator of what button to hit when, but they are all the same tactics. Enemies. They are all laughable and trite. Seriously, they are bad. It's like the game designers went to a five-year-old and asked them what a cool monster would be. "Oh, a giant head, on a go-kart, that shoots flaming harpoons from its mouth….." Seriously? The creatures you encounter seem to have no relationship with each other. Some are animals, some are weird inanimate things, and some are people, but none seems consistent. Gameplay. The objective of the game is to kill three big bosses. The only indication you get as to where they are is that you get a little golden line at some respawn points that show you roughly the direction you need to go. Death is an integral part of the game. Many people told me the game is good because it is so hard unforgiving. But it is probably the most forgiving game released in recent years. Death means nothing, nothing at all. If you die, you drop runes. But this doesn't matter, you can go pick them back up, and as you can run around most enemies, you can literally just run to where you died, pick them up, run to the nearest spawn point, let anyone pursuing you kill you. Now you respawn right here, with no enemies — as they also reset — and pick up your runes. It's pointless. Consider this to a more traditional game. If you die in a more traditional game, you have to load your previous save. The experience, money etc, you got is gone. Every enemy you killed is alive again. In Atmosphere. The game is void of anything worthwhile, there are numerous tilesets, but they don't do anything different to each other, just look different. The world is devoid of content, vapid at best. You have virtually no people, no characters, no justification for anything being anywhere. It's just a perpetual rule of cool. Lovely ruins, why are there? Who knows, there's no lore about it. There's no perceived purpose for the building. It's just there. Not only this, the world is big and empty. You can spend ages just running from place to place, no fighting, nothing interesting to look at, nothing interesting to do, just run. Character creation. Wow, this takes the cake, you get given the choice of three classes, with no explanation about the differences between the classes, and you begin at level 8, and none of it is explained or even makes sense. NPCs. The NPCs you meet in the game are quite frankly **** They give you no reasoning as to why they are there. They are all tropey to the point of making my teeth hurt, and, for the most part, they would have been just as compelling if they were a roadside sign that you had to read. Lore. I like the lore, but it's here instead of what they did well because the lore has virtually no intersection with gameplay. Every item gives you snippets of lore. If you want it all, be a completionist and collect everything. Story Well, no, the story is crap. The story, in essence, is that you are at a tipping point, and how you level up your character is meant to reflect the **** balance of the world around you. But you don't have a story here. The story is found in the lore, which undercuts the entire game but never intersects with it. There is no story in the gameplay. Conclusion Is Elden Ring good? No. It's trite, repetitive; boring; large, but not full; lacking consequence and impact. It's flagged as an RPG, but it isn't you don't play a character. All you do is allocate stats. You don't make choices that matter; you go through the motions. It is an entirely linear game in a non-linear environment, and it suffers because of it.
Just another Dark Souls with an open world. The UI is awful, the story shines by its lack of development and the graphics looks dated asf. Plus that, it runs very laggy even with a 3080.
Apart from technical issues, game is great and very enjoyable. Great atmosphere with lost of colorful places.
It's an ok game. But it barely works. It keeps on stuttering and freezing, sometimes it doesn't even start remaining on a white screen forever. This situation makes some enemies impossible to beat, just because the game crumbles on itself when you are near them. The fighting system is annoying and unfair for the player, to make an example: if you manage to knock an enemy to the ground it becomes invincible and you can't attack them. You would guess that the same goes for you, but no. If you get knocked down you receive a combo that kills you. The major bosses almost instakill you after one hit. The magic system is overpowered, and doing a parry is almost pointless because the combo that you can do after the parry, does the same damage that you would do with a charged attack. To make everything worse it's extremely hard to do because you can't understand when the enemies hit you. ( this is especially true for the major bosses ). Also, there are a lot of attacks that aren't parry-able, and there is no prompt or indication that they can't be parried. The mechanic of blocking the attacks is really interesting because you can follow it with a combo. But it is doable only on small enemies because after a boss combo you don't have enough stamina left to attack, and instead receive an attack in your face. The game feels generally old and every animation, every weapon, every combo has a feel of "already seen". If you go to an advanced area and beat an enemy that would have killed you in two hits, you receive the same exp that you would get beating the same enemy in his weaker version, in the starting zone. It is completely mental because advancing in the game, you need progressively more exp to level up, but the enemies give you always the same amount, even the harder ones. The game gives you the illusion to have the possibility to fuse a lot of styles, magics, weapons, armors, and abilities. But in reality, the only sensible ones reduce to a number countable with your fingers. This is especially true for armors, which are incredibly useless to one another, with really small chances between them and just a couple of them being really useful. I didn't understand the weight mechanic... between "medium-weight" and "light-weight" changes literally nothing. Moving speed is the same, attack speed is the same, you roll in the same way... The soundtrack is ok, nothing special. I've played dozens of hours and I can't recall even one track... so yeah, they work, but nothing memorable. The "new" mechanics are also annoying. The jump is utterly pointless because in the open world you can jump essentially nowhere, resolving in the end always using your mount jump. In a "closed" environment instead, it just becomes a way to give you anxiety and frustration. It opens new possibilities to explore the environment and have smart shortcuts, but the majority of them are on a freefall down, which in this game means INSTANT death. It wouldn't be a problem if it wasn't for the fact that you respawn at the last checkpoint, and even if you manage to survive all the enemies on the road to get where you died, you could just slip down one of the platforms and LOSE ALL THE EXP you have collected to that moment. ( which could be a lot since going further in the game, you start to require something like 25.000 runes to level up ONE level; and the enemies give you around 150 runes average ). This could be acceptable if the jump mechanic was implemented decently in the game. But that isn't the case, the jump is hard to calibrate and sometimes unpredictable. I would recommend this game if you like exploration and BIG boss battles. Those are two points in which this game excels, It doesn't even seem the same game. Weird is... the game usually stutters less on the big bosses compared to the small ones. Also, being the Big B.s big you can challenge them also on your mount. Which is super satisfying. The exploration is always interesting and pretty much diverse even tho the story is comparable to a headache and is really confused. Overall it isn't a bad game. but not a good one either. It has its very good things, but sadly it also has HUGE negative and annoying things. P.S. during frame drops, enemies are literally invisible.
It takes ~10h and not giving up to appreciate this game as a non-souls player. The design of this game is both breath-taking and old school, in that nothing is give to you by the game, you have to explore, fight and find out. Somethings are hidden, so when you find them you appreciate the discovery. It goes back to roots when most games hand-hold you. Because the hard ways are the true ways and persist. Even those hating the game will realise it later. Best game since Witcher 3 for me. And I started as a hater. Hats off to FromSoftware, very rare developer to do this. 11/10 and an understatement. (i am kb/m user, just rebind, not best point of the game, but I will forgive them because they have merited it)
Im actually not surprised by the semi low reviews. The game is highly unoptimized as of release and maybe not the best looking one released in the past year. Its also not with might have been expected from a Fromsoft game. But as a game in itself its actually quite good. First of all, I am a fan of the Souls games. I've played the Dark Souls trio and Bloodborne numerous times. I've played demon souls once and I've touched Sekiro. Part of the experience might be Influenced by nostalgia. I might add that I'm also a fan of the Elder Scrolls series. Why is this relevant? The best way to describe the game is as if Dark Souls 3 and Skyrim had a baby. The Dark Souls signature playstyle in its complete form. Someone who played any of the DS games will easily adapt to the controls and gameplay basics. The difference is a jumping mechanism and the vast open world format. You have a horse that you can use for travel as well as combat. However most of the bosses are in mount restricted areas. All in all theyve made it work but at a cost. The world, as of 15hrs in the game, have a feeling of 'lifelessness' and the world is too large for its own good. If you played skyrim you might have had the same mixed feeling. One part of you loves the big, free, open and unrestricted world while another part of you is tired of walking another 10 minutes through a forest consisting of nothing but trees, or a tundra full of ice but nothing more to it. The world is not very interesting and sometimes gives me the Ubisoft 'far cry open world' vibe. You sometimes however stumble upon more in depth areas but my feeling is that they couldve cut the world size in half and still have the big size feeling but with more personality. Some locations feel synthetic in the way that they are added as filler or just to serve for a certain mechanic. That leads me to the other problem. Dark souls, or the souls series in general, usually have a very abstract story where you have to puzzle the small hints of dialogue and cutscenes to find out about the huge lore and deep actual meaning of the game. Due to open world nature of the game and the lack of dialogue and cutscenes that comes with the somewhat unpersonalized open world, you get more distanced from the otherwise semi linear story. I personally don't care much about story in any games, souls game included. I play for the risk/reward, the exploration and the gameplay, therefor I don't find this downgrade of story that impactful. However I do miss the change of scenery and feeling of progress that you usually get in the more linear games. Apart from these downsides or weak points of the game it good. The actual content and possible playtime and replay ability is huge. You have more alternatives than the previous games. More weapons avaliable. More abilities. More mechanics. Improved multiplayer. More to explore. I love some of the boss fights I've fought and that the difficulty varies. What might feel impossible at first will become easy as you progress the game and your personal skill. Also the art style and some of the architecture is great, as usual. If I could choose I would have wanted a more linear traditional "dark souls 4" but the Elden Ring, being a different attempt to showcase the souls series, does not make a bad job. It just doesn't do it in the way a souls fan might expect it.
Elden Ring has surpassed all of my expectations. The game is a perfect marriage between Dark Souls combat and Breath of the Wild exploration. To my pleasant surprise, Elden Ring was able to make world exploration the most enjoyable part of the experience for me. Being able to almost immediately unlock our horse companion makes the early game a wonderful time. There is something magical about riding through the world, enjoying the beautiful environment, and hunting for all of the secrets to be found. Again and again I was shocked by the diversity of world design, the depth of the dungeons, and the scale of the world itself. Elden Ring gives me a feeling that no other game has; the feeling of walking through an area with the sense that I've been here before. This chilling sense of nostalgia alongside the outstanding depth of combat options is the reason why I will be returning to Elden Ring for years to come.
Boring, repetitive and overrated. Performance is garbage on pc dark soles game all play the same.
Great game and had no technical issues except a little bit of lag in some cutscenes, and my pc isn't some technical marvel (rtx 2070 and i7), i also did not change any settings, except sound. The only reason i post this, is to higher the user score as it certainly, despite the issues some have, deserves a much higher score.
Elden Ring is the first FromSoftware game I have played, and now that I have played the game for some hours, I only have one major complaint, the fps spikes/lag spikes. If they optimized the game a little I would definitely give it a ten out of ten. I have a pc that should have no trouble handling the game on max settings, but I still get the spikes even if I go on low settings.
For sure one of the best games that i've played in my life, i'm a big fan of Souls like, and beside that problem with FPS (Already solved) my experience was perfect, 127,6 hours until now.
A few hiccups in performance but the gameplay and story are fantastic. Easily the best game of the year so far and easily one of the best games ever.
typical dark souls game with boring,tedious,empty open world. PC version runs like potato with drops to 30 fps and constant stuttering while it looks like ps4 early game.
Very good world but way too much problems. With my rtx 2060 I can barely play on lowest settings (still getting A LOT of fps drops), sometimes in the middle of the game your enemies become invisible or just disappear. One of the worst game performance I've seen since Cyberpunk 2077
Masterpiece. This game is FromSoftwares masterpiece, they took a lot of their older games and forged it into this open world banger. Fights are fun, exploring is SUPER addictive, there’s literally anything behind every corner. There are so many ways you can enjoy and play it (character, weapons, fighting styles, …), that I’ll definitely play it more than one time. One of those rare games you’ll think of way too often.
Looking beyond the initial performance issues, I believe I have never had more fun in any game. The sheer amount of content this game offers, the depth of combat, the exploration. Must play for any Souls-fan.
I might change this later if things improve. Anyway, here's my review for the PC version. To start, performance is fine. I run it on a 1050 Ti with a newer CPU and runs fine other than stuttering. Then again, it just runs FINE, not well. Game play is standard Souls. If you've played Dark Souls you have played this game as well. The open world is boring. It's beautiful but serves no purpose other than a way to waste time between minor or major dungeons. Most, or all, progression will take place in those dungeons. The major reason I give this a lower score is just bad game design. Every enemy and boss is disgustingly overtuned to a point where you have to wonder if the people planning these attacks thought they were for a DMC game. Now I have no issues with getting punished for bad play, but when every boss and enemy is whipping out 8-12 homing projectiles while swinging an instakill sword around, it gets to be a bit much. There is a boss who literally just fills the field with homing projectiles, half of which will kill you extremely fast, the other half will kill you instantly. She also summons minibosses while shooting these projectiles. Don't get me wrong, I love a challenge. But this is not a challenge of your skill, it is a test of patience, as you oh so carefully traverse the area, memorizing enemy spawns and behavior, only to be hit by an enemy who just decided that animation frames weren't cool anymore. If by the time I finish this game, the gameplay improves, I will remove and update this score. Otherwise, it's very mediocre with questionable game design choices I would expect from a first time indie dev.
Such an incredible experience. I didn't believe the reviews at first saying that this game is a masterpiece, but here we are after 72 hours of gameplay and yeah, THIS IS INDEED a masterpiece! A much better and more authentic open world experience than all the "mouth feeding" "simpleton NPC mind" open world titles out there. Things don't necessarily need to be easy or super intuitive. There is so much more meaning in a game like Elden RIng. Just give your self a chance to try it. It is the closest thing to a DnD gaming experience, everyone has a different journey. The world is incredibly mysterious and rewarding, it's fair to say that nearly every corner of this nearly endless world has something hiding, something that most of the players could potentially never see or experience. I hope that new patches will fix some minor performance issues for PC. Otherwise, me and my friends loved every single bit. Felt like playing Elder Scrolls : Oblivion or any epic game of the deep past again. Certainly a game changer for the whole industry and open world Genre!
Just git gud Maidenless + foul Tarnished + no runes + touch grass + noob + fat roll
PC controllers **** as usual in FromSoftware games, however, this is one of the best games ever made. Noobs as usual give bad reviews for dying 20 times in the first boss, but even they know the great game this one is.
A gigantic open world with amazing bosses, lore, and that butter-smooth combat that we all know and love from previous Souls games. I'm really loving it so far. The amount of character customization, armor and weapons in the game is also staggering. Multiplayer with my friends has been amazing so far too. Solid 10/10 from me. I did have a few frame drops and stuttering close to release but those seem to have been mostly resolved
Loved a game that didn't baby me. Got lost in finding my adventure. No **** glowing items or annoying quests. Music was bomb, setting great, voices fantastic. Customization and pvp great. Challenges were there and the tools to fight them available. Been a while since I was this awed
Thankfully for now it's very obvious that most people don't actually like this game, yes it sold over million copies, because lots of people were baited into buying it, because it was advertised as "very accessible for new players", but in reality it's just same as every Souls game, just with open world and most people don't like games where you have to die million times to learn move sets, most people don't find that interesting, it's very obvious that most gamers want good story, fun gameplay and challenging, but not too difficult combat. Souls games are way more than challenging, they are brutal and even with best gear you can die easily and for most people, this is not fun. Just speaking facts.
This is probably one of the best games I have ever played. I can't come up with any faults of the game apart from the frame drop issues that will likely be fixed and have already been fixed for many people. This game from its incredibly fantastical environments to its incredibly hard bosses is an absolute joy to play. With over 40 hours in the game, I still feel I haven't even reached the surface of what this game has to offer. The endless exploration feels almost daunting as an end to the game remains nowhere to be seen even 40 hours into the game. This game is so much more than just a "Dark Souls 4" and feels more like a combination of everything fromsoftware has learned over their years of game developing. A true masterpiece, thank you fromsoftware
in terms of content and experience, this games is a solid 10/10. But with PC tech issues with random screen stuttering i give it a 9/10. With some other game the stuttering would be bigger issue, but the game makes you overlook technical issues. Its a have to play game for everyone.
Best FromSoftware game. Big open field areas, 100+ bosses, smooth gameplay and combat.
Great game world design. Cool bosses and npcs. Boring, non-coherent story and unbalanced game play with tons, and I mean tons, of stutters and glitches on PC. Wish I'd saved my money and time until they fixed the game, if they ever do. However, even without the glitches it's just a game of super gimmicky bosses, some of which are impossible to beat, at least for me. I quit at level 169 after not being able to even put a dent in Malenia. The stupidest boss and saddest end to a ton of time invested in her story. Save your money on better storytelling and games that aren't there to just punish you after investing a ton of time. Very disappointed.
Elden Ring does open world gaming right, I find myself wanting to explore every single dungeon in the game, because every dungeon has a unique reward at the end in the form of a unique weapon, spell or talisman The landscapes are stunning, and each area has a distinct look to it The combat is great I understand that some people on PC have had some performance issues, but I haven't see any
It is such a beautifully stunning game. Hard as hell bosses, but doable. Ancestor spirit is what did it for me. One of the best From has ever made. Hope they keep it up.
Decent game but really not deserving of the 10s. A nice map that you can barely stop to appreciate due to being 1-shot by some enemy if you stand still. Some of the most awkward one-sided dialogue in a game where your character has no voice. A wide variety of skills and weapons that have no in-game explanation of what they do. One of the worst cameras on recent memory. It's another Souls game, take it or leave it.
Fcking amazing. I love every Minute of the game. Margit beat my fcking ass the first few Times, but i got gotfried on my 3rd try
Great looking game as always, visually stunning. Sound and music also great. New crafting option is a welcome addition, same with boss checkpoints. The meta of the game seems to be to anger the player by any means necessary and really they just do this without reprieve, using every dirty trick in the book. Example, there is a new Lobster mob that can shoot at you with pinpoint accuracy from miles away, taking out nearly half your HP with one shot. I've had enough of that nonsense. It's cute but it doesn't serve a purpose other than to be a nuisance when you're exploring. Noteworthy combat encounters are rare, Dungeons are few and far between, even fewer of them containing items of value. I was mostly sad to find out that it lacked the sense of accomplishment i felt in Dark Souls after beating a boss. I killed nearly all of the Lords and i just felt bored. Control mapping is weak on PC, can get really confusing in time sensitive situations. I don't like playing with a controller but it really was made for consoles in mind, so instead of using a button per action sometimes you'll have to combine two. Latency is also weird sometimes, like the commands activate late or not at all. Most infuriating though, it's filled to the brim with hackers and it hasn't even been two weeks since it came out. FS still tone-deaf to the pleas of the community. My advice is get it after the hype dies down, or after it gets a few well deserved patches.
you wont find every thing you wont be told everything nothing holds your hand and accedentally finding out about something such as finding a alternet ending by accident is the best thing, such a breath of freash air
If everyone is giving Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild a 10/10 than Elden Ring definitely gets at least a 10 because it surpasses that game in every way.
Its just darksouls with an uninspired, empty and boring open world. One of the thing the soulsgames were known for is the almost brilliant level design and an open world like this destroys it. it looks nice, there are some nice POI and dungeons, but its downgrade to the series of those fromsoftware games.
one of the best games ever made. is compared to BOTW and the original dark souls. Deserves all the money.
This is the best game i've played in a LONG while. Definitely game of the century if you'd ask me.
This game is a great show of what a Fromsoft game is supposed to be, hard and unforgiving for your mistakes, and a lot easier once you know what you do. If I had to compare it to something in real-life I would compare it to moutainclimbing, if you cant make the climb you should not be there and train some more. That principle has always been a part of the Souls series and is a core part of Elden ring. those that ask for a Easy-Mode are those that ask for an elevator up the Mountain, DONT listen to them the are not Fans/climbers and should have no say in it.
It's an exciting game. Feel the love of the game. The character is wonderful. The story is wonderful.
Absolutely horrendous interface and control scheme that is beyond unacceptable for a PC title, even a ported one. Bad performance compared to the graphical fidelity, unsmooth movement, gameplay lacks fluidity.
Didn't play it longer than 2 hours, because i refunded it. I love open world games, but i don't understand how this game is hyped like this? Despite all the port issues, no ultrawide support, the clunky controls, the 60fps lock...i have never been bored like this by an open world game. I wait for a sale, hoping the technical issues are fixed by than, giving it another try. Not worth 60 bucks at all!
Haters gonna hate, but the game is great anyway. Some many people already said why this is great i have nothing new to add
Best game i've played. Just like dark souls but more gameplay. I recommend buying this game.
So I think this will be my very first legit review ever and let me just say this game is everything it's been praised and more. First of all I don't think people who give it bad reviews based on their computers specs and crashes should even be valid as I myself don't have the best CPU out there, but would never downplay a game when my hours played would be close to none. If you aren't familiar with FROMSOFTWARE (i.e. Bloodborne, Dark Souls, Sekiro) games either and just hopped on the hype train of what's popular and got slapped in the face with that difficulty shock don't take it with a grain of salt it's meant to challenge you. People also out there like "There's no open world or Lore or Loot" I don't know what you're talking about cause there's literally loot and lore all over if you actually explore and pay attention. Yeah there's no tutorial or quest page to guide you when playing or to hold your hand but you can always also use Google like almost 99% of everyone when they get stuck somewhere or just look up a guide and don't feel ashamed there's literally tons of info out there on the game to easily guide you by without needing a in game tab. Everything about his game is rewarding, from killing that crazy hard boss you are just determined to finish whether you die 100+ times or not. You can respec your character later in the game so even if you find something you want to use which you didn't build your char for you can always alter later on or if you really feel like it just grind it out like most games require these days as there's no real max level in the game as opposed to skills capping out at 99 which you can actually get every attribute to if you really wanna be Elden Lord. The game had some flaws at launch but then again almost every game now and days days one has some sort of broken system to it which usually gets fixed right away or down the road. One major thing about this game no matter how much you might think you're a video game god is you're going to die.. Numerous, numerous times. Laugh it off, learn from your mistakes and move on. I've never clapped my hands so hard and yelled so loud to myself in excitement after getting down that boss I thought was ny imposible. Graphics aren't as good as one would expect from a AAA game coming out in 2022 with 10/10 reviews and no it doesn't have DLSS or Ray Tracing or anything but you also have to understand it's all about the gameplay and it still looks pretty damn beautiful if you ask me. I haven't got a chance to wander the lands with a friend yet but I heard it can be even more of a blast in co-op which I'm interested to try. Also if you're finding it super hard but also enjoying it yes their are trainers and cheats out but honestly that takes away all the fun from the whole game plus then you get put in a Soft server with other cheaters so it's just not worth it if you ask me. The game is clearly meant for consoles so I do recommend if playing on PC to have some sort of Controller to make your gameplay a lot smoother and easier much like most console released games. All in all. If you were waiting for a new RPG you could just play by yourself or with others on your own time similar to games like Witcher 3, Nier Automata, RDR2 and etc with lots to explore, numerous endings to unlock, New Game +'s to catch anything you missed the first time or so on and wanna just be your own badass hero whether it's wielding a Giant sword, Shooting Bows, Casting Spells or basically doing almost anything you could in the likes of Skyrim then give it a shot. My biggest piece of advice before purchasing is just know like most others have noted of the games difficulty and don't let it frustrate you do the point of quitting. The game basically comes at you with no difficulty setting but similar to very difficult versions or your favorite games you might be used to playing on Normal or even Easy and just aren't used to the challenge cause you just wanna enjoy and finish it. Don't aggressively attack enemies without properly dodging or blocking, it's not meant to just smash the hit button and heal. Lastly just take your time, we're not all speedrunners out to smash records. You get no rewards in finishing it in one hour or one week. Chances are you're just gonna miss out on more stuff along your run. Anyways I just wanna say I've loved every second I've spent with this game so far and can't wait to New Game plus it numerous times to learn and discover more and more. Coming from someone who's died hundreds of times enjoy everyone!! :D
If you take Skyrim and remove the interesting story, fun, progression, NPC population, direction, you get Elden Ring. I played for 20 hours, leveled to 20, and it’s just riding around on a horse trying to grind runes.
'Elden Ring' was a masterpiece of Soul Series games, it has excellent qualification,It is the first Soul Series game worth trying for all players. Review of "Elden Ring" Graphic/Art: 8.5 Music/Sounds: 9 Narrative/Performance:8 Gameplay:9 Score:9 (+0.3)
most overrated and most boring game of all time, game crashes every 15 min, the graphics aren't that great, it's overhyped by fanboys!
From software really outdid themselves this time. This game takes all of the best pieces of their previous titles and makes them better. I was hesitant at first since I didn’t know how their formula would work in an open world but I was wrong and couldn’t be happier.
Game graphics looks like from 2006. Other languages than english were probably translated in google translator lol. Stupid texts on the ground, i mean, they are really stupid, and with zero point. Bad console port on PC, u have to guess which button does what. Im really dissapointed, gameplay is boring. Story even more. At least we know which company pays for good reviews.
I made an account because this game deserved the points. Frankly, it is just the best Fromsoft has ever done. There is a little bit for everyone who enjoyed the previous entries. The game is absurdly massive and fun no matter how you go about it, it has outrageous amounts of replayability even compared to other souls titles who boasted high replayability... If making Elden Ring does not go rewarded, I don't know what would.
I do not understand the hype and the critics reviews. It's a big, empty open world, without tutorial, quest, lore, loot. Sluggish controls and graphics is worst than modded skyrim. 5 hours play time and it's already boring. If you take away the difficulty (and you can on pc with cheat engine) there is nothing left, a big dead, empty world where nothing happens. Go and learn what a 10/10 open world is by playing RDR2.
A complete masterpiece visuals art direction gameplay music everything about this game is completely mesmerizing
A great game with relatively minor issues that I personally have faced. It's hard and unforgiving, but much more accessible than previous Souls like games from FromSoftware. Work needs to be done to perfect the port, but as of the 12/3/22 it's working perfectly fine on my PC. Those who complain about the 60FPS lock are screaming into thin air, it is clear the engine is reliant on that 60FPS lock, very similar to how Skyrim is. Overall, it's great fun, but very difficult and can be very annoying to a new player. It's not perfect, and it's a way off the 10/10 score many people spout, but it's a game that has adequately lived up to it's enormous hype, which is very rarely seen.
Elden Ring Review 0/10 Can't even play the game because it crashes every 10 minutes.
A really great game. But even a great game like this has lots of issues, and these issues ruin your whole experience.
One of the best fromsoftware game I played so far. Also one of the best games period
One of the best game I ever played. Imagine a mix between Witcher 3, Zelda BotW and the darkness of the Souls.This game is HUGE, I already played over 100 hours and I feel I know nothing about all the world and his secrets. I wasn't a fan of Souls but for me this game is a master piece ! The game is not as frustrating as Sekiro f.e, the open world allows you to move and do other quests and things till you feel confortable and come back. I just can recommand you to play it, you won't regret.
A nigh perfect souls game set in a vibrant, dense open world. From Software have picked up the best parts of all the previous Souls games, Bloodborne and Sekiro and have added a lot more to make this game. The combat and other gameplay elements are top notch and the sound design and music is a new high bar for the Soulsborne genre. I've personally encountered no performance issues/crashes on my PC but I'm sure fromsoft will patch the issues out at the earliest.
Great game. Don't listen to most of the review bombs from new accounts with two reviews, the other being horizon. It's like people bought a souls game and are offended that it's a souls game. It's a classic souls game with a lot of the same mechanics from previous games. It's more accessible as there are usually sites of grace (bonefires) right outside the boss rooms. You can also fast travel to any of them right from the start of the game. Being open world they have a lot of smaller side dungeons throughout that can be vested in 15 to 20 minutes but they also have those classic longer ones. It's more accessible than previous games but the combat is in line with previous entries and in my opinion it's more difficult. There is story but like all souls game it's not something presented to you on a silver after. Everything has to be earned in souls games. People who look at dying in a souls game like a failure might have a hard time with this as dying is part of figuring out enemy and boss attack patterns. I will say that the PC version has some performance issues that need to be patched so my actual review is 9 out of 10 but I gave it a ten to try and balance out all the review bombers who gave up after an hour.
One of the best games I played. Amazing art, challenging, huge world with a lot of things to do. Master Piece.
Input lag problem and input queue system in this game make game unplayable.
Enemies are invisible and it’s only a dot still after 2 weeks of its release. So people still say study their animation to defeat them, I really want to say how? It’s rendering the game not playable. And I ask for refund.
Its a great game, I love the open world and all the mysteries in the game. It has some preformance problems but the game is so good i forget about it after a couple of hours. hope they fiks the stutters soon
Fantastic game. The world is gorgeously and purposefully designed on another level to any other game I've played. The combat has ds3 DNA with some positive changes. If you like fromsoft games you will love this. Some minor performances issues and lacking some settings for pc, ultrawide support and 60fps cap for example. These things do bother me but all things considered it's still an incredible game
This Game looks Amazing, the Graphics is okay but the art style makes the game looks really beautiful. The gameplay in a Open World works well for a soulborne game.
i was thinking okay maybe fromsoft coming with a game for a wider audience will fix their hitbox circus and all the combat issues but no. theyll just convert everyone to weebs. it was nice in the begining im 200h+ in and i wont touch it again when i finish it. yea im bad at it but cheesing , relying on luck and rhytm games isnt difficult . its just for people who are willing to learn because they dont have anything better to learn . like i played it because it was the only game that seem good but i would recommend not to suffer through this . it was good in the beginning because of a few original tricks but after that it all becomes the same thing over and over but with more health and damage
After almost 140 hours of play and in the middle of NG+, my verdict on the game. There are a lot of positive things, but also negative things. Dark Souls 4, oh I mean Elden Ring is one of the best games I've ever played. The game has a fantastic open world with a lot to discover. A very good story with multiple playable endings. The desire and motivation for a New Game + is definitely there. As in all Souls games, dying is part of the program and if you have a problem with Demon's Souls, Dark Souls and Bloodborne, you probably won't like Elden Ring. The game is a bit more generous and beginner-friendly, offers more to level but not easier in the end. Now we come to the bad things. The performance of the game is catastrophic in certain places, FPS drops to ~5 and it's not my hardware, it's a problem that many have in the same places in the game. The game sometimes freezes for me or just closes instantly. I bought the retail launch version in an online shop, it was supposed to come with a steelbook and the pre-order items. I wanted the steelbook and the goodies, the steelbook and the pre-order bonus are missing and now I can't even upgrade to a deluxe version or I can buy the full game again for 79.99... That's really bad service. Normally you can always upgrade the games to a better version. That makes me a little sad. In the end it will still be one of the best, most important games of our time, setting new standards.
By far FromSoftwares best game yet, Elden Ring is a masterpiece on nearly all fronts, with only a few minor issues stopping it from getting a 10. If your a fan of these games, play Elden Ring now you will love it. It's the culmination of everything FromSoftware has done ever since 2009 with the release of Demons Souls. The open-world is surprisingly good, I was worried we'd be getting a super dead world with just fields of grass, and while that does occasionally happen, its usually quickly broken up by something that'll catch your interest, whether that be a castle in the distance, or massive tree, or one of the many dungeons. The dungeon system is a great way to split up the world and give you stuff to do, it's a welcome addition that adds so much more content. While they can occasionally be a bit repetitive and some of them are way too short, their for the most part well done. My only complaint would have to be the dungeon's reuse of bosses, once you've done a couple of these dungeons your likely to run into a boss that you've already fought once and likely more. This is likely my biggest issue with the game, bosses are reused so frequently that it becomes a joke after a while, even some bosses that are in the main story are reused as either another boss or a damn enemy type. it just comes off as really disappointing and lazy, especially when they can't even be bothered to change some of these reused bosses up in the slightest, one boss, in particular, is used over 10 times and is the exact same every single time. Some may not consider it that big of a problem, but to me, as someone who considers the bosses to be one of the most important aspects of a FromSoftware game, it was really disappointing to see. Thankfully the main story bosses make up for this issue and are all amazing, there wasn't a single one that I didn't like, and Elden RIng has by far the best bosses in the franchise when it comes to the main story alone. Even fighting these guys in Co-Op is lots of fun, their extremely well balanced and can actually be very challenging even with 3 other players. With the bosses being given a bunch more health, and actually switching targets from player to player, and using wide sweeping attacks to hit everyone on the field. And thankfully it's easier than ever to get into a world with 2 of your friends, as the item used for summoning is extremely easy to get using the new crafting system. The flowers used to craft it are everywhere and respawn, so if you ever run out, all you have to do is farm some flowers for about 5 minutes and your set. Unfortunately, PVP is nowhere near as good or well thought out as Co-Op was. When you're dueling a player whos using a fair build, then the 1v1's are extremely fun and intense but occasionally you'll run into someone using an extremely broken build that you can't do anything against. This is a problem I've only recently run into, so it could be patched soon, but this game's balance is currently a nightmare, there are insane one-shot builds, stun-lock builds, or death blight builds that can literally kill you without the enemy even hitting you. Hopefully, these issues get rebalanced soon, cause it is currently ruining PVP. The last thing I want to talk about is the technical issues this game has experienced, and yes, I've experienced them too, and it's very disappointing to see. FPS drops and crashes are far too frequent and annoying, and while the FPS drops do seem to have been patched, for the most part, the crashes have only seemed to increase. In the past week, I have crashed 5 times, during my initial playthrough (which was 73 hours) I had only crashed twice, now I have crashed 5 times in only 20 more hours. I do see these problems getting patched with time, similar to the FPS drops, but it's still something worth mentioning. Despite these issues, Elden Ring is fantastic, and while I would love to give it a 10, some of the problems hold it back. But don't let that deter you, I would still recommend this game, especially to die-hards of the series or even just players who enjoyed one or two FromSoftware games. To someone who has never played any of these games, I'd still give it a try, it'll be very difficult at times, but doing side stuff, leveling up, or using summons will make things much easier. FromSoftwares masterpiece and an easy recommendation. Full review up on my YouTube channel Kang Fasho!
I'm not gonna complain about the pc port, the game itself is a piece of **** easy game with a lot of recycled bosses.
I have no idea what the other people reviewing this game are talking about. I’ve been extremely disappointed in the video game industry in general in the past few years. Nowadays, games are made to please investors and make the most money with the smallest amount of time and/or money possible (i.e. cyberjunk 77, battlefield 2042, recent call of duty games). This game (Elden Ring) actually feels like the creators cared when they made it. It feels like a work of art with years of effort put into it. Its engaging, challenging, beautiful, rewarding, and surprising. The only complaint I have is that combat is the main focus of the game and there is little content that doesn’t force you into combat. This isn’t a huge issue, however, because the combat is technical and interesting and the AI is extremely well-tuned. There’s no (or very very little) rest from combat in the form of minigames or side-activities. This can become exhausting after a while. However, this game feels like games used to feel - it surprises frequently with hidden quests, bosses, items, and lore. The FPS drops have only noticeably occurred during the first mini-boss (tree sentinel), but other than that I haven’t had any other noticeable FPS drops, and my computer setup is mediocre, at best. Do not listen to all the people complaining. The FPS drops can be frustrating, but the game is highly entertaining and, to me, is worth playing regardless of the infrequent frame rate issues.
Elden Ring brought a new set of challenges which I was not expecting and that is something I can appreciate as a Souls fan. Performance issues aside, the world of ER is big and beautiful to explore. Lots of cool bosses which can be borderline impossible but leave a great sense of accomplishment. Wide variety of enemies and interesting areas spread throughout the game. For some of my less favorite aspects of the game, the crafting system is somewhat useless. I used it once to craft sleep arrows and that was for a very poorly designed boss which I won't mention here. The over-engineering of some bosses/mobs, which made strength builds nearly obsolete due to how little window there is to attack for the majority of bosses. Overall, this is the hardest game I ever played which is something I can appreciate. Starting NG+ and looking forward to playing this again.
soooooo many bugs, garbage AI, stupid horse, and story is hard to understand
If Dark Souls it's the best 3D metroidvania experience! Elden Ring is the best Open World Experience with strong MetroidVania elements in key dungeons and even at some degree to the Open World itself. The formula of Ubisoft Open World is a plague to the video-game industry and seeing FromSoft creating such a new and fresh take on the Open World design is something that is amazing to see. I can only hope that other video-game studios that wants to create Open World game will study Elden Ring design and take some inspirations for their futures games!
Despite the PC performance issues that undeniably exist, the game is different from other Souls games, it has become an open world, with an exciting and really challenging adventure. the visual effects and soundtrack are wonderful the more i play the more i want to play. The more I discover, the more I want to explore this amazing game.
This is by far the best game I have played in a long while. Sure, there are definite bugs in it that cause some creatures to not do what they are supposed to do, but if you ignore that and just concentrate on the game itself... ( and to all the people complaining about PC issues, Get a better PC, I had no issues with Lag or framerate.) The Hitboxes are absolutely perfect.. If you know your weapons range, then you can predict and time all your hits. Combat is amazing with the addition of the Block Counter (Way to go Software!!) The open world is so massive and it really touches the heart.. the Difficulty is perfect.. not as hard as Dark souls 2, but not so difficult that you can't beat the game. Now for the Cons.. The Summons are way to powerful they need to be nerfed.. a Single Summon can defeat a boss alone without your assistance.. this should not happen. Certain Magic spells are overpowered and should be nerfed. Quests should have more descriptive instructions. Currently they are to vague. Item locations should have more descriptive Colors; Weapons 1 color, armor another... bla bla.. The Map itself is hard to read and should be better descriptive on how to reach areas. Every Trinket should have it's own questline.
Awful overhyped game. I'm not familiar with the souls games but I saw this game get hyped up so I thought I'd pick it up. What a terrible mistake. I've got a 3080 and the frame rate issues are abyssmal. Not to mention the stuttering, the texture pop ins and multiple crashes that deleted my saves. I would not recommend this game.
Just overhyped! The story has no sense, Alloy is the most lame main character in this year, the dodging skill is useless, the arrow has not enough dmg, the melee fight is very good against non-robot enemies but against robot the spear is useless and lastly, the level/biom designes are bad.
combat is totally irrational,more on luck than on skills ... sometimes with a weapon you can do damage from a great distance sometimes with the same weapon at close range you don't do any damage The same goes for attack through the shield ,,, sometimes it does damage sometimes it doesn't ,,, a fight made quite according to the template the story is too abstract and unrelated .... too much .... I'm at the beginning of the game, but it scares me that over time it becomes constant and boring...
In this game, souls game features are fully utilized and **** content of this game exceeded my expectations. Although it is hard but it really is a good game.
Elden ring is one of the best FromSoftware games. The good points to highlight are its graphic section along with gameplay and the wide variety of enemies and bosses throughout the map, but my only negative point is the drop in FPS on PC, although the studio is already working on a solution to that problem.
Horrible performance, terribly boring. The world is empty and the combat is repetitive. Don't be fooled into thinking this is another game like Demon's Souls, Dark Souls or Bloodborne.
Possibly the best single player game ever made. If you don't play it you are missing out on a masterpiece, simple as that.
I have never reviewed a game in my life, had to create a metacritic account just to do so; this game is just fantastic. The souls series might not be for everyone but it's very sad to see people giving this amazing game a 0 because they are unable to put in the time and effort to learn the game's mechanics. Absolute masterpiece regardless. Oh, and PC performance issues were fixed very soon after launch.
After achieving a platinum in Steam I can easily say that this is overall a good game but sometimes it's just too frustrating. I mean it's still definitely a dark souls game with all that positives and negatives which I personally like but with a GIANT open world. It is pretty obvious that this open world would be rather empty or full of reuses so FROM SOFTWARE chose the second option. I can't even tell you how many times I've killed that Erdtree avatar or Ulcerated Tree Spirit. For me this is too grindy. Someone might say that cleaning the open world isn't necessary and that would mean that this person hasn't played the game at all. The very first story boss clearly tells you to go and clear a few dungeons and catacombs before you come to him. The next thing I don't really like is summons. You can literally just summon one thing on a boss and go have a cup of tea because this summon will just do everything by itself. Personally, I didn't use that thing and it took me a long time to master some of the bosses, but my friend just finished them in one try using this thing. But like I said before, it's still a dark souls game that I love and I really enjoyed the game.
This game is an open world souls game with an easier learning curve then previous entries. If you are thinking about getting into souls but the series look to hard, give hard Elden Ring a try. You are able to explore the world upgrade your character then fight the area boss when you choose to do so.
It's 2022. It's stupid to keep a control scheme that physically makes dodge come out slower by few frames. It's stupid to set the horse reborn prompt at no. It's stupid to punish the player for beating a stronger boss early by giving smithing stones that aren't even usable until you go back into earlier areas to find other mines. It's stupid to throw the great combat mechanic out the window to just slap a bunch of lazy duo, trio bosses. With all that said, yeah it's a fun souls game. Just saying it's a completely lazily created open world mess.
Really good game. Pinnacle of the "souls" genre so far. Just not for everyone. Game could be better optimized but it runs well on my machine.
Elden Ring is the last step from the yearly development of Dark Souls games, including Bloodborne and Sekiro. The map is heavily complex and with plenty of things to do. After my 24h first hours in game I am enjoying every part of the exploration, because it is rewarded with items, upgrades and things that will help me in further combats. The enemies are very different and the Bosses are complex and unique. I play the PC version and it's optimization is pretty damn bad though, probably because of the Easy Anti-Cheat.
This is literally the best game i have ever played,i love it thank you Software for this game!
.Glitches, crashes and frame drops all the time .Server sudden disconnects can make all your effort go to waste due to the game quitting. .Map about 25% inaccurate with the terrain .Open areas full of nothing but monsters that barely defend themselves and the eventual big ones that 1 shot you even with high HP and level .The balance is by far the worst in the series, big field monsters and even some normal enemies hit and resist more than bosses .Open world is only an excuse to get items for the crafting table that you will never use and join the dungeons the franchise always had, making it a useless addition that will be there only to waste your time Tl;dr a big ugly son that only a FromSoftware shill would love.
Even with performance issues at launch I find this game to be amazing. My stuttering was fixed by leaving the "Task Manager" open in the background. This is probably due to not meeting the minimum CPU requirements but far exceeding the GPU ones. Regarding the game, it is intentionally obscure with very little hand holding outside of the five minute tutorial dungeon. The world is dense enough that exploring is fun with many hidden little places to discover. Quests are hidden away in the world and obscure enough that you can walk right by them if you aren't paying attention. The combat is deep and satisfying, it has built on every previous FromSoftware game and is as tight as ever. The game is much more accessible than any previous souls games and the difficulty is fairly smooth with only sharp spikes in and around major boss fights. This is my GOTY bar none.
Elden Ring has an incredible number of fascinating locations to explore and cool enemies to fight. The developer studio has refined the precision of combat over their past five games, and it still feels so good to outmaneuver dangerous foes. The music and art direction are as beautiful and powerful as ever before. They really do most of the work to set the tone for an epic adventure with a dramatic finale. Elden Ring is more accessible than any Dark Souls game. Example #1: Stakes of Marika allow players to revive closer to the boss arenas and get back to the action quicker. Example #2: The mount in this game spawns out of thin air and moves through the open world faster than the normal movement speed. Example #3: Spirit ashes enable a variety of NPC summons to be upgraded, and they make boss fights a lot easier. Example #4: Invasions only happen when you voluntarily interact with the online summons. They do not happen randomly in the open world. Example #5: Fast travel is more convenient than before. All of these quality-of-life improvements make Elden Ring more enjoyable for the average player by cutting out some of the tedium. However, not everyone has to play it. I think the developers of Elden Ring still want to target a semi-specific audience. If you like franchises in the fantasy genre such as Final Fantasy, God of War, The Elder Scrolls, The Lord of the Rings, and A Game of Thrones, then you might have fun playing Elden Ring. Be warned that people should not buy Elden Ring just based on the hype alone and expect to love it if they were never truly interested in the first place. Dying often is a natural part of From Software games, and it requires patience and perseverance to earn the euphoria of defeating a powerful boss. Overcoming the difficulty and marveling at the visual effects provides an addicting feeling that keeps players coming back. The lack of certain features, like a pause function and a quest log, are only minor inconveniences in the grand scheme of the whole game. In fact, the game developers may have intended to promote more natural exploration through these design choices. And the map has just enough details to generate more curiosity without feeling like a burdensome checklist. Players will spend less time looking at the menus and more time actually immersed in the world of The Lands Between. I think my friends could have a great time with Elden Ring if they persevere through the difficulty because the cooperative play with strangers has been a blast so far. Visual stuttering can a serious issue, but it happens rarely. Its effect on the game-play is usually negligible. (Everyone seems to be experiencing different degrees of performance issues, regardless of the quality of their computers.) My personal experience has no freezes and no crashes. Please realize a high review score does not mean the game is perfect. A high score means that the person gave their highest recommendation.
I have no idea why Elden Ring has so many negative user reviews for PC. I hesitated buying the game because of all the negativity, but I'm so glad I decided to try it for myself. The game is objectively amazing - incredibly well-designed gameplay and progression that enables users to find a playstyle to match the level of difficulty they want. The world is engaging, huge, intricate, and beautiful. This is my first souls-like game, and I found it to be approachable without feeling overwhelming. Its design stands alone from almost all other open-world games, with minimal hand-holding in order to cultivate a feeling of mystery, intrigue, and danger. I'm finding myself engrossed in a way that reminds me of my time playing Skyrim for the first time a decade ago (albeit with much more dying, better RPG elements, better open world, better enemy variety, better challenges, and thinner story). The performance issues are WAY overblown. Does it have occasional stuttering? Yes. Does it lack ultrawide support out of the box? Yes. Does either significantly detract from my enjoyment of the game? Not at all. Plus, there's already mods available to unlock framerate and add UW support, so I wouldn't base your decision on the overblown performance complaints you may have seen. Overall it's at least a 9/10 for me. If they can optimize performance and find a way to improve FPS & reduce stuttering, it probably deserves a 10.
One of the best games ever released. Open world and boss count is unreal. The boss fights are fair and gameplay is fun
The most original and exciting open-world game since Breath of the Wild. The world is vast and full of interesting things to find, the combat is deep and challenging (and sometimes frustrating, but that's part of the fun!) There's a ton of freedom to customize your character, and a huge variety of playstyles. It's not for everyone, and I know some people are having performance issues. For those who like a challenge and unguided exploration of a mysterious and dangerous world, there are few games like it.
I'm liking it as much as dark souls 3 but with better graphics, better combat, more freedom, a great setting and a lot of variety of enemies. The performance on PC in my case luckily is quite good.
Best game i have played in a very very very long time. Sure, performance isn't perfect, but plays better than most new games on my system Considering the size of the game, it has the least amount of bugs i have seen in an new game in years.
game is just bad. outdated graphics. input delay from controls. and same old dodge dodge dodge hit battle system that takes you 1 hour to kill a boss. only people with too much time in their hands can play this. also story is so messed up you dont know what is happening most of the time. no journal to keep track of npc or quests. just bad
This game could have been perfect. Before I start I want to say that I have thousands of hours on Fromsoft games and that they are my favorite games, and also that the 7/10 is score is not influenced by the bad PC performance, not in the slightest. All of my problems with this game arise from the place that matters.. Design. I could write a 5000 word essay about the flaws of this game and everything that brings it down, but that's too much commitment for a single game especially after an 82 hour playthrough. I'm splitting this review into two parts, questing and bosses. In short; the quests are random and there is no way for the player to tell what an NPC wants them to do or where they might have headed to without looking online or asking around. I spend 3 hours looking for Millencent's new location after I gave up and asked on r/EldenRing. Turns out she's supposed to be in the Alteus Plateau in Erdtree Gazing hill. How in the seven am I supposed to know that? Same thing with Ranni, I visited Ranni's Rise before killing Radhan and she wasn't there so I assumed that's all what the area had to offer, which obviously, is not the case. It feels like a King's Quest game more than a Souls game. For the bosses, there isn't much to say. I can name 5 bosses that are probably the best boss fights of any game, Period. HOWEVER, it seems like Fromsoft got lazy after making the first quarter of the game and started copy pasting bosses all around the world. Often even repeating the DS2 sin where they end up putting two entirely different, independent and pretty tough previous bosses in the same non-optional boss fight because? Frankly this game has frustrated me to the point of which I can't even write a proper review/rant it. I'm done with it and I don't think i'll ever be playing it again. tl;dr : Sould you play it? YES. Is it the most flawed Fromsoft game? Yes, unfortunately
PC issues aside, the game isn’t that polished. There are real head-scratching oversights in this game that make me wonder how anyone can try touting this as the best RPG of recent memory. Unfortunately, the ever-toxic Souls community is clouding a pretty good game. I will say, what keeps me coming back, like any player, is that addictive style the Souls games are famous for. Little by little you get better, learn more, and then get destroyed by a boss. If you have an addictive personality or short temper, it’s probably better not to even start this.
Best game I’ve played. The world is beautiful, the combat is challenging and addicting, and the map and length of the game just does not end. Beautiful.
Quintessence of all FromSoftware souls experience. Truly a masterpiece. The feel of adventure and building your own path is amazing.
Not ignoring performance issues, but this game is so good that it gets a 10 from me despite that.
I don't rly care about optimization... the game by itself is just to good. Love every second of it!
I've never had so much fun for a quite some times now with video games. And then this game came out. I didn't expect much initially. I just bought it cuz I didn't really has any other games to play. But ****. I'm so surprised of how good this game is. I'm hooked. It is so unique from any othe open world games I've played. Definitely a GOTY for me.
Elden Ring is another addition to From Software's repertoire, breaking from the normal souls-like formula with a new and incredibly well crafted open world. The Lands Between beckons the player to explore, discover, and conquer an intricately crafted world filled to the brim with content. Elden Ring demands the player to find their own purpose, there is no quest log or markers, no arrow pointing you forward, just a simple guidance, a nudge, pointing you in the path one might take. This is Elden Ring's greatest strength, as a player just starting the game one can easily choose to go anywhere, and explore one of the most fantastical worlds yet seen. From the very start of the game, past the short tutorial section, the player has access to around 40% of the entire map, all without needing to fight a single enemy. And when I say 40% of the game, I do mean 40% of what took me, a souls-like veteran with years of experience, 80 hours of playtime; and even then I was still unable to complete everything, missing a huge section of the map hidden right under my nose! However, it must be stated that, like how I introduced the game, Elden Ring is a soulslike first and foremost, this means crushing, if not brutal, difficulty. Elden Ring has no difficulty slider, instead there are many other options by which a player can make the game significantly easier. Build variety and the usage of online play can make the difficulty spikes in the game simply melt before you, and with the new system of spirit summons even singleplayer, never seeing a second of online play, leaves you open to an effective (and at times even stronger) version of online summoning. Elden Ring is also open world, allowing the player to simply go a different path whenever they encounter a roadblock, leaving them time to get stronger and better prepared. There is never a time limit to these games, and with fast-travel readily available from the moment you step into Limgrave you'll have plenty of opportunity to zip to and from places of interest. Elden Ring separates itself from most open world games with its dungeons, various dungeons litter the Lands Between, each being unique and difficult in their own right. Of course, these are all preludes to the real meat and butter of From Software's designs, the new Legacy Dungeons are back to form, with sprawling and maze-like complexity of the previous iterations of the souls series coming back in force, I spent around 7 hours in the first Legacy Dungeon, Stormveil castle, and I later came to realize that it was possible to reach the final boss of the area in under 10 minutes of having entered! These huge sections of the map will challenge you just as much, if not even more, than the bosses themselves. Online play has received a rather large rework, with the new incorporation of the furled finger allowing solo players to play online without any fears of getting invaded (by players at least). The new co-op rework allows for up to 2 other players to join you in jolly cooperation, however be warned, in summoning another player you are now susceptible to being invaded. And that brings us to the PvP scene, which is just Dark Souls 3 but without the two-hit stun that were so common, and backstabs are all but gone as well. Be warned however, no matter how strong you think you are, there is some invader out there who can and will trounce you. I unfortunately cannot discuss the performance issues this game suffers, as I experiences very few during my playtime myself. Meeting all the recommended system requirements I only suffered frame rate loss between load zones or under some rare circumstances. So read up on some other reviews! It should also be noted that this game has received a large amount of review bombing, so shave off about 300-400 of the negative reviews and you might get a more accurate descriptor of the user ratings. This is because of controversy over the incredibly success in sales Elden Ring has had compared to their rival Horizon Forbidden West releasing just a week before Elden Ring. To anyone reading this, please do not spread negative reviews without justification for either of these games. Elden Ring is open world dark souls, with an amazingly crafted open world design that is filled with over 80 hours of content; and not some flimsy "content" fetch quests made to waste your time, but real engaging and unique content throughout the game. The game is difficult, and will challenge you, but with an open world design it is possible to simply travel elsewhere and better prepare oneself. Accessibility has never been better for these games, with the new spirit summons Being an incredibly powerful tool added to your arsenal. Invasions and coop are now required to be activated by the player, so no need to stay offline to avoid those pesky invaders. I hope everyone reading has a good idea of Elden Ring, and why it's so highly rated. be seeing you in the Lands Between, fellow Tarnished
This is an amazing Game! I have no regrets buying this! Other open world games should learn from Elden Ring!
Where can we give feedback on issue for "Quality of Life" improvements for Elden Ring on PC, the Camera issues and Target Locking problems from making the Mouse both of the analog control sticks, PLEASE this is driving a lot of us crazy with constant uncontrollable lock switching and more key binding options, like actually being able to bind Maps to M FFS!
10/10 would buy again. This game grabs you buy the ears, and jabs its meaty man flesh right in. Before you can take a breath you've been assaulted with fresh gameplay, and inundated with a newfound appreciation of life. From Soft has once again fornicated with me until the point that I love them once more. Thank you for this masterpiece.
This is the best game of the word.Only have a little problems but i have 100 hours in game and i can't stop gaming.
Its awesome amazing flawless, until it trys to load a new material or spell effect and it stutters like a... insert derogatory thingu, and there is a capped FR and no ultrawide support (thank god for flawless widescreen). FIx these and easy GOTY.
Great Game, great Soulslike. One of the best open world structure on the market and an amazing exemple of storytelling. The feeling of combat is crude, fast and visceral. The color palette is finally brighter and landscape is cleaner, dotted with a multitude of places of interest. I still have to reach the End of **** the travel, after about 80hrs, is already memorable.
Honestly I never played a game so good. I still have the urge to explore the world. Every cornor is unique and exciting. The Boss fights are fun but the could be a bit more challenging for my taste. Overall its a 10/10 Game. Dont listen to the Kevins out there. The game is awsome
Run around killing or getting killed by everything you encounter in neverending hellish like depressing environments. No tactics, just move along until the next boss and spend endless pressing buttons to dodge, slash and hopefully survive and then repeat. Supposedly you are to find some ring but I have no idea why I should care about that. It is really a very boring game. Nice graphics despite the very gloomy surroundings.
Same soul game as we seen before... Just added "open world"... Bloodborne was much better.
Honestly an overhyped RPG only because of it's developers reputation from the dark souls games. It got a good open world and interesting developments for your character but lacks a good story line (which is the core of an RPG) and the movement response is mediocre at best. You could say, it works as designed but for me it sounds like an excuse to make a combat response more accurate. Also it's full of bugs & exploits, dunno where those rating coming from.
Please, do not listen to the resentful people who criticize this game because they are not able to pass the first zone of the game because it is too difficult or because the game has a fps pull every 7 hours. This game is a masterpiece regardless of whether you like it or not, just as you may not like classical music but no one would say that Beethoven is overrated, the experience that Elden Ring offers you is simply spectacular. It has flaws like any game but the positive things it offers far outweigh the small flaws, spectacular atmosphere, unique scenario design, epic confrontations, just enjoy and stop insulting something you don't understand.
Fantastic game, probably one of the best entries in the series. However, because of the amount of exposure this game has gotten its received purchases from all over the gaming sphere, players from every type of background have gotten their hands on this game and it shows. Well the game is challenging, it isn't impossible, and never tries to surprise you in the progression or game design of boss fights and so on. The problem seems to stem from players' ability to learn new tactics, read the menus and understand what they're capable of in gameplay. Many don't want to take on these new challenges or learn new things so you end up with a user score like we have right now. I've seen so complaints they could simply be solved if people would just read and try to understand what they want to do with their builds. Some of the cons in this game mostly are to due to their dx12 implementation on PC, the game struggles with shader buffers, and while you play for the first time, every time you encounter new textures and effects you have a change of stutters. These stutters can only happen once on the first time they're loaded so over longer play sessions you will experience them less and less. I'm inclined to believe this will be fixed, but it is frustrating to encounter this stuttering during boss fights. If you enjoy challenges and have a healthy ability to take a loss and improve the holes in your game, this game hands down is one of the best experiences you'll play.
Not sure why PC players hate it so much, the 60fps caps is bad, but stable so you get used to it pretty quickly, with a couple of key rebinds it actually feels great to me. The attention to detail in the animations and the overall quality of the game are amazing, rarely you can find something this well polished form a gameplay point of view. I'm not a huge souls fan, but I really respect this game!
Great, stunning, awesome game in every way possible. BUT FIX THE GOD DAMN STUTTERY PERFORMANCE. Once it will be patched I will properly rate this game again. EDIT: 85 hours in, performance is much better now. Best game I have played in the last 25 years.
I REALLY wish I could give this game a positive review, that being said, the User Experience is awful on PC. When you've died on horse combat for the millionth time because your game started chugging down to 5 FPS, that creates a big issue for me. If you're going to play this, play it on console. I can't enjoy this game until the FPS issue is fixed. This game relies on stability far too much.
Spectacular game, nothing else even comes close to how amazing this game is
I actually own the game. I can't say this for people giving it a 0/10 because Ther's no possible way it deserves that. Must be people who rage quit and left a rager review because they decided having to actually play a game, is asking too much. I put 90 hours in my first playthrough alone, on PC. Which to me, is rare. I did everything. If you really like Souls games for their atmosphere, and their lack of hand holding, Elden Ring is a must play for you. Story 7/10 - It's basically the same concept as the other souls games, but the formula obviously works in this type of game. Gameplay 9/10 - The vast amount of enemies and weapons, spells, is just insane. There are hundreds, if not thousands of possible playstyles dependings on what you have equipped. Graphics 8/10 - Not the best, but its still a gorgeous looking game with great design. Evironment 10/10 - They really know how to build beautiful looking places, from snowy mountains, to rotting depths, to blood soaked ruins of a forgotten underground palace. Dont even get me started on Norkon. Optimization 8/10 - apparently people dont know that you can entirely fix the stuttering issues in the Nvidia control panel and one click in windows settings. I guess it's easier to cry and moan about something than to actually find the fix for it and implement it yourself. I would like to see the 60 fps cap removed for people who want that option. I guess make it so you're offline without risking a ban? something official wouldbe nice. Overall 8/10. It's a very good game that definitely doesnt deserve the low scores it's getting from accounts, who somehow only have 2 reviews on their profile, this and forbidden west. fishy. Most of them also left a 0 score on every platform Elden Ring is on. Definitely something weird going on there, as I doubt those people have played this game on 5 different platforms. Great work from FromSoft. Keep doing what youre doing and dont ever change to appease the baby crowd.
The fact this masterpiece of a video game has a 6.6 user rating shows how stupid people are.
FromSoftWare has done it again, great game with a beautiful world to explore, and do explore it, there are bosses in every nook and cranny to gain a wonderful experience and well experience form!
First off, i see that many ppl had launch problems and i understand the frustrations. For me it was only issues with my xbone 1 controller, which i could fix in an hour with steam big picture. The game itself is best game i 've ever played hands down period. A huge interesting beautiful diverse open world, hard diverse bosses, build variety, interesting questlines and characters, perfected ds mechanics etc. Most games (even the best of em) fall off hard towards the end, you can see this especially in open world games becoming more and more sparse. This game stays intense and suprises you at the same pace throughout the whole experience. Just love it.
I really wanted to enjoy this more, but it plays and feels exactly like Dark Souls, and the same positives and negatives I have from those games carry over into this one. As for the features unique to this game, the open world is incredible and so much fun to explore, however it makes it difficult to want to go back through it all again for a second play-through. There is an immense amount of bosses which makes exploration feel rewarding as it'll always lead to new equipment/spells/items, but some of the dungeons get repetitive and some bosses just feel like slightly more difficult enemies. However, my biggest issue with the game is the awkward balancing. Some bosses and areas in the game felt to me personally, substantially too easy, maybe because I accidentally overleveled myself by exploring more difficult areas first. It felt weird to one-shot many bosses, something I don't think I've done in any other FromSoft game. Don't get me wrong this game is good, but it's still just Dark Souls at it's core. I wish it had more of its own identity like Bloodborne or Sekiro. It will always be a refreshing experience to play a game by FromSoft, their tailor-made difficulty and priority on combat above all else is lacking from a lot of new releases. But I can't help but feel this is a step in the wrong direction. I'm still eager to see what they can come out with, but please no more Dark Souls, I expected something more unique.
Best game I've played in years. The game might have had a rocky start with performance but just a few studders here and there are not enough to stifel my enjoyment that I been having. From software have set a new bar for the quality of an open world with no micro transactions to be found.
One of the best souls game ever played ️ map is insane also design is insane etc. Just buy it already if u did not.
Small Stutters and framerate issues were mostly fixed with the latest patch, but still persist in some cases. Other than that the game is a masterpiece, taking everything Fromsoftware learned from their previous titles and translating it perfectly into an open world. Of course some bosses are copy pasted to some locations, but even then it feels rewarding to explore the vast open world. The main bosses are the best designed and likely hardest in the series (excluding maybe some Sekiro bosses).
My first soulslike and Is great, you have to work for Advance and Is very rewarding. Run well un mi gtx 1650 Nobile, mostly 60 FPS, textures in ultra and the other settings mis/low
2012 graphics + YOU DIED + blind fanboi = best game ever ??? This is the most overrated game ever. if Ubisoft or EA release this game it would be 7/10 or 8/10 maximum
No way to pause the game and EAC forced in a singleplayer game. that is a refund from me.
absolutely the worst souls game ever made. have fun with unbalanced garbage as **** end game and trash enemy designs that do nothing but spam attacks this game is for cheap trash uninstalled and refunded immediately **** this trash game
Best game this year, and I have played them all, up to this point. The fact that it's actually a struggle to see every part of it is what makes it exciting, the secrecy, the boss fights, and the art style all together should make it into the game of the year. Horizon like and Assassins Creed fans should just stay away. Game performs good on PS4 Pro, other people just straight hating.
This game is a masterpiece and deservers the score. It's probably the best game I've ever played and I have already over 100 hours. The gameflow, gameplay, combat is perfection. They took the best from all souls games and created a magnum opus in terms of combat. The enemys/bosses and areas are so amazing and detailed that I am still stunned when I look at it. Cinematics are awesome too and it has so much good content, that it blew my mind. The quests and story is also wonderful and I was never more into a game as Elden Ring overall. Definetely a 10/10. Now lets talk about the current "controvery": Some Game devs (Especially the sore loosers at ubisoft) badmouthed this game with various untrue reasons like: missing UI, bad graphics, overhyped by game critics and so on (,while being unable to make good games theirself). Saddest part is, that some ubi-fanboys are reviewbombing this game and giving their favourite "open world game" perfect score. They usually copy ubisofts and over devs words and just add the "bad performance" part for PC, which mostly has been fixed for people above min. reqiurements. If you don't like it or even hate the game, I guess it's okay if you give like a 5. But it shouldn't be objectively possible to give below 5 because it's in every aspect amazing. Now to all the Fanboys/Clowns: If you really hate it, it's okay. Taste is objective. If you think the game is bad because of gameplay or graphics then you didn't know what game you bought in the first place and you are a fool. If the game doesn't run smoothly, next time read the System requirements, which they posted like 1 week even before release. If you cry about UI, lore or just copy the stupid/false words from the "devs", just go to your corner and play your easy/boring/bad microtransaction games with 800 questmarker/waypoints on the map where you just follow a path like a bot without thinking/playing yourself. If that's the case, you are the reason why gaming gets bad and gives money to those big "triple A" companys, who exploit clowns like you. If you want to fight me in an argument about this, just add me on steam or write me a comment there. Can't wait how many clowns are going to write "interesting stuff" and white knight their favourite game in comparison to elden ring. ****/id/Gaming_Potato
The Legend of Zelda released in 1986, and served as a textbook in video game development. Most developers have forgotten that charm that makes a game, however, FromSoftware has certainly charmed me with this game. I have played well over 140 hours of Elden Ring that itself shows how massive the world is. I don't intend to criticize certain reviews that I have read, but I can only define them as invalid scoring methodology. To properly score a game you must base it off your own experience, and understand the nature of the game. Elden Ring by nature is an exploration based open world. Heck the back of the box clearly states that its exploration based open world. Negative reviews that state the game is confusing, and difficult to get around is not a reason to place a negative mark on the game. The exploration is breathtaking, and always puts me on the edge. That feeling of adrenaline is all over the place. Boss fights are challenging as expected from a souls game, but the amount of exploration will tip the scales in your favor. Elden Ring pushes players to gear, level and learn the mechanics of the game. Most bosses are well designed, and game contains many secrets. Negatives of the game definitely some framerate drops or crashing during launch for PC, but these things happen. That charm that captivated gamers in The Legend of Zelda was the sense of exploration. Most games today hold your hand in the beginning, but Elden Ring plops you right in the world. I understand that most gamers are nurtured to start with receiving straight forward objectives, and having a game that puts you in the world with no objectives is overwhelming. Elden Ring purpose is to pique gamers' sense of curiosity. Making gamers curious about the world and mechanics promotes higher level thinking. This is the reason why Elden Ring definitely is considered a masterpiece.
Almost just what I expected. Instead of making something like Bloodborne 2, a sequel to a game that many faithful players would be grateful for, the game developer suggested that their special ideas are much more interesting. I skipped Sekiro because of boring ‘samurai’ setting and no freedom of character choice and was impatiently waiting for another souls-like. Here it is, I play the Elden Ring finally. And my feeling is so mixed. On one hand, I see a big and beautiful open world to explore. On the other, nothing could save me from feeling that the big and beautiful world of Elden Ring is empty and boring, despite the fact that some enemies and bosses are really tough to deal with. Some locations are really fascinating and entering one of these can be breathtaking, but this illusion breaks when you meet another portion of enemies which are a total disapointment compared to the surrounding landscapes. You would just wish to pass them as fast as you can to see something else, something really intriguing, but mostly you find none but disappointments. For example, you make tremendously difficult jumps to enter a huge lonely standing tower to find out that it contains a couple of mobs, a lot of deadly traps, another sequence of jumps, a boring boss which is however difficult just due to millions of HP, and another artifact which you would never use in further gameplay because of its uselessness. You do not find any shortcuts to other locations from there, just dead ends. When you visit two or three such locations you just think - I would never visit this place if I play again. And in fact, most of these places don’t worth revisiting in case of further replays. Therefore, the need of the open world in this game is doubtful. I didnt yet try to play caster characters, however sword or axe movesets are not that diverse as it was in DS or Bloodborne, and there is not much difference in using this or that weapon, each fight outcome just depends on your level or skill, thats all... it is not much fun anymore. There is some war ashes option available, however it requires FP, so it is not a variant if you like facerolling because then you would need maximum number of health potions. Sometimes stealth mode or spirits you can call for support deliver some fun, but there are still no chances of stealth bow/crossbow oneshot which makes this weapon just as useless as it was in previous souls games. As of now I played over 70 hrs and yet did not finish the game, so it could potentially surprise me with something, but I doubt it so much. I think to pause for a while because I am really bored. However, I was expecting it, so it is not a complaint. These days all games are incredibly bad, and this game tries its best to be better, even if it fails
A fantastic adventure created by fromsoft! pc has some perfomance isssues but even with the stuttering its a masterpiece!
I'm a shooter... first time playing soul games The game is difficult and the action is slow for the speed of the bosses I could not play with GAMEPAD for some problems frames drop The difficulty of the game made me hate **** made me **** game world makes you depressed
Crap on PC - deleted after 50 hours. I cant deal with PC ports and this is one of them. Cant change mouse speed or key bindings. Aiming in game is clunky as f.
This is easily the best fromsoftware game out to date. It has quite a bit of performance issue but i've played cyberpunk 2077 on xbox one launch. This is not bad. So worried about the performance of the game you don't spend the time enjoying how everything looks and feels. I wish they'd pay me to write a review
Its a great game marred by terrible performance issues. Dont get this game unless you want to spend some time getting to learn things as it is weird and difficult.
On PC I've had few of the problems, from my own looking into the problems it seems the problems are only with the highest end computers not the mid range computers like mine. On the game play it feels like a more refined and expanded Dark Souls 3, so for those familiar with From Soft think better DS3 with a massive open world. For anyone not familiar with the games, this is a game that takes time and skills that you'll learn by playing, from boss moves and when to attack, roll/jump to not get hit. When playing there's always a way to avoid damage but learning how to get around it will take time. That's to say the "Get good" meme is actually the advice due to every play-style being just as viable as each other, but ultimately Elden Ring just like the other Souls-born games they aren't easy games that everyone will be able to just pick up, but if you have the time and patience you can get good enough to go the whole game never taking damage at level 1.
This is one of the best games in a while. Elden Ring reminding my 20 year old self what I love about video games. With such much of these easy things being released, Elden Ring is a nice gift to humanity. It brings to life both an epic adventure full of life and horrors, and an amazing combat system that can be punishing if not taken the time to learn. I play on PC and love this game, while do not deny the criticism for better PC optimization, this is perhaps the best game sense the Witcher 3.
Easily the best game I've ever played. The open world is vibrant, diverse, and full of places to explore, the combat is the souls formula at its peak, the story is intriguing as long as you're willing to pay attention to it. If you're a fan of From Software's previous works, I don't doubt you'll quickly rank this game among the best.
A masterpiece. Don’t listen to the Horizon fanboys trying to bring the ratings down. I haven’t had this much fun in ages
First of if you turn DoF and Motion Blur off you'll have ZERO issues with performance. Haven't been this into a game in long long time. So much to do and explore. And even with no prior experience with Fromsoft games I've been able to enjoy this game to the fullest in the 75 hrs i already have in this game. This game is just a masterpiece.
The classic souls formula, but with more things to do and places to explore and a gigantic new open world. Simply a Masterpiece.
Never played a souls game before this. Kind of hit a wall difficulty-wise after the first boss but exploring solved that issue mostly. I will say this is already forsure one of my favorite games of all time, at least top 3. It's a game the feels rewarding in its most fundamental gameplay loops and systems. Hopefully, i can wrap up the second boss here shortly. 20 something hours in.
This game has consumed me ever since it came out. I have played 60 hours so far and still haven't explored everything or beat all of the bosses yet. I have noticed very minor performance issues, but overall the game has run smoothly for me and I am sure that From Software will release patches to deal with the issues people are experiencing in the future. But even now, I don't think the performance issues are any where near as bad as what the negative reviews make them out to be. I highly recommend playing this game.
It's appropriately difficult, open world, dark & gloomy and has a plethora of weapons, skills and classes to choose from. From my perspective, the multiplayer portion of the game is integrated in such a way that you never feel disconnected from the community, even if you're running solo. It's possible to summon friends to your world, leave messages for other players, and engage in PvP by invading another person world. My only gripes would be the lack of a free camera (it auto resets itself, minor, but annoying), and far too many people are reporting performance inadequacies; but these can be easily addressed.
- poor performance - 2010ish graphics, overall poor graphics as for 2022 - cheap, sluggish animations - alot of reused models/textures feels like its 2012 not 2022
The best game I have ever played. From soft really out did themselves. It excedrd every expectation.
This is my favorite game from Fromsoft, after playing all of the Dark Souls entries, i find Elden Ring to be a culmination of everything that i like with open world elements. Negative points: PC performance and 60FPS lock.
There is no need to spend money on such a mediocre work. Did the critics who gave the perfect score get a bribe? Or are you not playing? I wanted to "adventure" the world with the Soul series system. They advertised that it could be done with an open world system. I bought this, but it was a fraud. I continued to resist boredom and work feeling on the wide stage and cleared it, but I am desperate to say that it is disappointing. I didn't want to spend all my time in the fight. There are countless complaints, but I'd like to ask one question, why is it all attacking without warning? It was By the way, the score is only for the game system, the score is zero if you take into account the price and various under-optimizations. * I'm not an English-speaking person, so please forgive me for my poor writing.
I never could get into Fromsoft games before. Tried Dark Souls 2 and 3 and wanted to throw my PC in the trash. Elden Ring? 10/10 would die 30,000 times any day. Are there problems? A couple I guess. I do get some stutters on my 1080ti/Ryzen 3600 but they are few and far between. Frame rate locked at 60 **** but I've got the graphics settings maxed with no issue. The game is beautiful. Are the graphics mind blowing? No, but everything is very well done. A great game that I've been playing non stop since release. Don't believe the brigade.
One of the best games ive ever played. And im gaming since Atari 800XL/C64 times. The world is so amazing, with so much fredom, that i have to think a long time to find another game that lets one that many choices what to do first. Cant beat boss XY? Just go to ZY. Cant beat ZY, just go to YZ. Cant do YZ, just do thing ZZ. Every corner of the immense world is full of secrets and content. Even after reading 10 guides one still will find secrets on his own, if looking for them, trying out things etc. Controls are like always in Souls games, spot on. One can count beats and it will fit, if the refresh rate is constant. Bosses always give that immense feling of accomplishment, even if not that hard as in other Souls games. The "choosable" difficulty of them makes this a perfect example how a Soulsbourne has to be, playable by everyone who invests time into the game. Everyone can choose how hard he wants it to have, by either just following the "line" or by roaming the world, doing it all before going to the hard bosses. Technically i dont have the issues others have, so i cannot rate it down. After the latest patch the game runs on vsync 60 fps on maximum, if i let the first few minutes after loading in out of the calculation. Its very fluid (9900k, rtx 2080, 32gb, win 10, wqhd). Many nice features make this Souls for my personal taste the best one. The open world, the horse and the ability to jup improve it by a ton. I dont understand why ppl rate it low, honestly, im afraid they are the ones rating everything down. For me its among the best games of the last years, maybe even for overall. Its amazing and i cant stop it once ive started. If i would have 1 wish for something to be added, i would choose a bit more story. In form of cutscenes or whatever. I know there is lots of lore etc but sometimes i wish there would be a bit more.
Had to make an account for this after seeing how its score doesn't reflect the game's beauty at all. I've had an amazing experience so far; bosses are amazing, the open world is fresh and dense. The legacy dungeons feel interconnected, they're large and hide layers upon layers of secrets and pathways. And how can I not mention the gamepl?ay
This game is still unplayable to me after 2 weeks of waiting for them to patch an invis glitch that should not have been in the game after 2 delays and testing phases it’s sickening that think that Thousands might have to wait months for from soft to patch their game I’m never going to buy a Pc port from this company ever again and now I understand completely the reason why people didn’t get dark souls remastered on Pc along with why Bloodborne hasn’t been ported
Masterpiece, butthurt forbidden west trannies forever and ever blown the **** out.
As a massive fan of From Soft games I am more than happy to say that in my opinion this is the BEST From Soft has released. its easy to tell how much time and focus has been put into this game by the developers and its paid off. the open world is beautiful and the gameplay and mechanics are just as smooth and in depth as previous From Soft games. if you like dark souls then this is a MUST play, if you don't like dark souls then unfortunately this isn't the game for you.
Literally the best game I’ve ever had the pleasure of playing. It’s unlike any game I’ve ever played. You should definitely check it out!
My only complaint is a little bit of stuttering on pc & no 21:9 support. Other than that it's a great game, once in a decade release.
I have to say that this is a really good game overall, but it's a very bad soulslike game, and as a longtime fromsoft fan, I expected a soulslike rather than a traditional open world RPG, which is the reason for my low score. THE BAD: Fromsoft made the game more accessible, but that killed what made their previous games memorable. The adrenaline rush you felt after killing harder bosses/mini bosses and overcoming challenges was amazing. But in Elden ring I felt no such accomplishment at all, I didn't feel challenged at all. No boss or miniboss took me more than 5 tries, and i did not use summon nor sorcerer builds. Of course the game could've been challenging, if I level up less, upgrade my weapons less, don't use ashes of war but... if I have to actively avoid using the games mechanics to make the game challenging then that is just simply bad design. Previous fromsoft games had a natural progression to them, unless you went out of your way to farm you did not overlevel. Also there were quite a few bosses in ds3 that had high magic res and gave mages a tough time to balance things out, ER does not have such things. There are some other minor issues as well, lot's of overused minibosses, repetitive catacombs, mounted combat is boring. Bosses are not fun, all the delayed attacks ruin the flow of the fights that ds3/sekiro/bloodborne had. Lot's of downtine between action, not so action packed as previous titles. THE GOOD: Visually amazing world, combat is improved, ashes of wars and spells are fun to use, boss mechanics and visuals are also really cool. Overall: IMO they should've sticked to the non open world format, the open world hurt the game more than it added, but it could be fixed with some balancing/tuning. Multiply the healthbar of every enemy by 1.5-2x, I think that's easier to do than nerfing everything.
While there certainly are legitimate criticisms that can be leveled and will hopefully be addressed in the future, this game is by far a class of it's own. Mixing open world exploration and discovery with the Soulsborne series combat mechanics that have garnered a reputation of its own, and an artstyle that leaves one completely stunned, this game is by far GOTY. I wish I could go on, however I encourage you to discover for yourself just how incredible this game is. I would definitely say this game reminds me of my first time playing skyrim, and just how wonderful and fantastic the world is.
I have no issues on pc. Everything’s works smoothly. Not gonna lie. This is one of my most favourite games ever. The dark souls mechanics were meant to go open world. Thanks From Software.
Best open world, maby ever. Pretty dificult. Graphic is very good but optimalization ****.
After spending 80+ hours in this game, there are many things I have noticed it choses not to do, and in the process makes the game more enjoyable because of this. This is a great intro to the Souls genre that deconstructs the open-world genre and asks the question: Is this really necessary for gameplay, or does this ruin the experience by design? By taking a minimalistic approach to assisting the player, the game gives you the agency to make any choice and explore any path. However, the game also provides "guiding grace" to give you direction if you chose to play the game in a linear fashion. This separation of exploration and objective is fundamental to open world games and yet so many restrict large amounts of exploration behind multiple meaningless objectives, gates, or levels which hinder player immersion. Instead, by nudging the player through difficulty and death, you learn how to experience the game and succeed, and that's why I enjoy this game. That is to say it is not without it's flaws: It makes the assumption you have played video games and understand how gameplay in a exploration game works. It makes the assumption human stubbornness is limited and that players will make the objectively better choice to explore and return rather than continue and become frustrated. The lore can sometimes be limited and only explained through items, though depending on who you ask the mystery is half of the enjoyment. Some critical NPCs that can make the game much easier are just randomly hidden away, for you to find in the first area (spirit summoning, ashes of war seller). This makes melee gameplay harder if you miss them. Spellcasters and prayer teachers are much more abundant and ends up leading to a playstyle where going purely with combat leads to more unintended difficulty than being a little bit of both blade and spell/prayer. Skills (ashes of war) do a decent job offsetting this issue, but they are not easily acquired though are great after acquiring. It also is not well optimized for PC, dropping frames when loading between areas and during some sequences. Visually it is semi-dated, but its scenery and framing make the world look like so much more than it is, you hardly ever end up noticing the fine details due to to gorgeous views and sprawling architecture, all of which, yes, you can get there, yes, you can explore. The vertical enormity of the game makes its smaller overall map feel massive and full of places to explore. Best of all, not being able to climb restricts you but also motivates you to reach places you have yet to explore. I have stopped for many moments just to take in the view and appreciate the world I am exploring. ("Gorgeous view ahead" indeed!) Overall I give this game a 9.5/10 for its excellent gameplay and the overall experience. I loved every moment I had with it, and can easily see myself replaying it on New Game +
Amazing game , breath taking every inch of it , really don't need to say much , play it , if you liked it you will be in a amazing journey
10/10 Masterpiece, the best of the best, play it, this game redefines what an open world should be, it takes everything from previous FromSoftware titles improves on it and places you in the best open world ever created to date, no other game compares, it makes you want to keep exploring the more you discover and rewards you like no other game when you do so, it keeps the high difficulty and challenge all veteran players want while still being accessible to new people, I cant think of a better game than this one, this game will remain as a cornerstone of gaming it truly took the bar of what an open world game should be and rose it above everything ever before.
Such a great game! Having played through DS3 a few times I did not expect this game to pop off how it has
I haven't stopped playing since this game came out. Best Souls game to date
Elden Ring is The Best Open World I ever seen before you can’t feel boring when u open new area or something like that in other games and the art design is so amazing every time u shocked and the bosses and enemies are the best about ever you seen in video games history!!!
After spending the pandemic completing the Souls Series, including Demon's Souls (PS5), Sekiro, and still playing Dark Souls III; This is the first I have played from day 1 with only myself and a friend as a guide for what to do. On the first night I beat a boss that to this day less than 50% of users have beaten, and it feels good. I will more than likely put another 70 hours into 100%ing this masterpiece, and hundreds more into the PvP. Occasional frame issues on day one no longer happen after setting NVidia settings to high performance (and V-Sync to on) Beats ES:V and any other RPG you throw at it. An instant classic that totally changes up the way open world games should be. 10/10
This game is in my top 5 of all time. I had some problems with joystick connection at the beginning but everything works after that. The graphics are beautiful, the gameplay is awesome, the history is awesome and the world is unique.
An absolute masterpiece! From did it again and managed to pull out a game that is equally appealing to both a brand new player-base and the old souls games vets. It may become a bit too hard for new players that are not familiar with the souls games mechanics, but there are big improvements to the multiplayer system that support newbies. This is not a story driven game that will hand hold you and point out what you need to do next along the way. It's a personal journey that you dive in and nothing compares to the first playthrough **** souls game. Just take it slow and enjoy - 10/10 would recommend the pain and gratification after! PS There were some minor issues with the PC version on launch day, but those were addressed by the devs promptly.
This is my response to people who say "Well other than the pc performance the game is stellar!" FFS reviews should be about the game as it is not potential improvements. Don't you realize this is the same thing EA did with anthem and CDPR with Cyberpunk????? I love From Software. I've been playing elden ring for 12 hour streaks on my days off, sometimes even more. But you CANNOT just casually say "the only blemish in an otherwise stellar game" about performance. You have no idea how flipping annoying and immersion breaking this game is when it trips over fps. I have adhd and I can hyper concentrate on details like that, and although I love the game, it makes me so mad at Miyazaki every time I mount my horse and my fps goes from a solid 60 to 33. On a ryzen 9 and 2060 setup on 1080. I can run games like this on 2 monitors with max settings and get over 60 steady. There is absolutely no reason why FromSoft can keep doing this to the PC community. Dark Souls remastered was next to unplayable for me. Sorry for the rant, but crap like "Once it gets fixed it'll be all right you'll see!" does not help. I expect this problem not to even be here in the first place. You're pissing in my face and telling me it'll be all right once I'm done! I'm pissed I preordered it but at the same time I'm a masochist so I'll keep off the horse as much as possible and try to get $60 out of a (what feels like) $15 sale game.
I don't put a 10/10 because after 30 hours of gaming and fighting the story is missing.
This game is one of the most highly-anticipated games in recent memory, and it certainly lives up to expectations. I'll keep it short and simple. I am ~20 hours in and could not be happier with this game. Pros: - Visually impressive. I don't think this game has state-of-the-art graphics, but that isn't really something I care about. The graphics are solid, the world is beautiful, and the art direction is phenomenal - Combat is fun and engaging. Like previous FromSoft games, the combat is a high-point. Git gud. - Exploration is risky but rewarding. I am thrilled with their addition of dungeons and crafting. There are interesting storylines, secrets, and puzzles all around- you just have to look. - Difficulty is present and the game is better for it. This game pushes its players to be better and smarter. This is something rare but deeply appreciated in today's videogame market. I applaud FromSoft for not trying to appeal to the lowest common denominator. Cons: - Some performance issues initially. They were never that bad for me, though. I know that other PC users struggled, but all I experienced were some occasional slow-downs and frame-rate drops. Following the most recent update, it runs flawlessly.
GOTY 2022 worthy. My first souls game but definetely not the last. This game reminds me of old games that use to be challenging. The design is epic and the amount of things to do is endless. I am addicted.
The game is very good, faithful to the Souls style, it is different from the rest of the games I am used to and I think that is the cause of so many bad comments, but let me tell you that the game is great, it's captivating, fun, it makes you think, explore and improve. It has much to discover and explore, People today are used to being told everything and being led everywhere by the hand. In this game you have to investigate, be cunning, have patience and be creative. I really liked it, I play it non-stop since it came out.
Bad PC port, bad quest designs and a lot of copy paste dungeons. Overall the game is good, good open world and fun to play.
Was waiting on a patch to leave my review, on my lowish end hardware (gtx 1650) the game now runs flawlesly and ive been having a great time. The game is a masterpiece.
Very fun and addicting game. I did have stuttering in the beginning, but in the later areas (or due to the patches) I don't notice it anymore. This is my first souls game and I didn't know they were this addictive. Is it hard? Well, yes, in the sense that it punishes a lack of patients and panic. At some point you just get the fights and the moment that it clicks the bosses don't seem that menacing. But the best part is that you get to go on an adventure and just explore and be fully immersed in the world. It's great for payers that try to avoid the main quest at all cost and do other stuff first. After many hours, I'm at the golden city and the only really frustrating boss was the crucible knight an optional side boss that doesn't even drop anything I can use.
Elden Ring is a masterpiece, this game is absolutely amazing. The open world is beautiful with loads of secrets to find and nooks to explore. With about 200 hours of play currently, lag and stutter issues were extremely rare. I 100% recommend this game to anyone who hasn't played Souls before. BUT THIS GAME REALLY NEED A QUEST JOURNAL. Because it's impossible to keep everything in your mind. PC Spec: R5 2600/32gb 3200/GTX 1080 (spec is pretty weak for 2022 imho) Resolution 1080p. Graphics preset Maximum. Performance: 60 fps with drops to ~40 fps in random places and at non-obvious actions. Game installed on HDD, i think this partly explains the lags, but loading is between tp fairly fast.
i'v played 120 hours of Elden Ring and this game is truly amazing and awesome the level of exploration is truly solid the animation are well made , the story is quite abstract which is great and gives the sense of imagination game is artistically excellent how the weather behaves the way lightning works it is truly outstanding experience almost everything you see in map or specific area is reachable which gives the world disturbing sense of connectivity, the quests are vague which is good there is uncertainty in how the npc behave it feels like each one has his own destiny and they are not related for your cause in anyway (either buying completing their quest line etc ), the game feels like puzzle and your brain is constantly working , one thing is the enemy repetition (they did their best so you cannot over feel it even if you might see other attack move sets still ) was bit noticeable , keep in mind these games are hard to make they came from people hwo are passioned about what they do and they are not milking us to buy game content, it's truly shame to see all these negative reviews sadly this is what has the gaming industry come to we embrace low effort and p2w games and we trash the one hwo stick to their own roots , quality , fun , enjoyment , and learning ---SCORES--- Graphics - 8.5 / 10 Music - 9.5 / 10 World /World design- 9/ 10 exploration level - 9.5/10 Characters/enemies design - 8.7 / 10 Story - 8 / 10
Elden ring end game is very unbalanced. There is no git gud in it. It's just cheese or get OHkoed. I already said it many times elden ring is a amalgamation of all fromsoft titles but the combat the players have access to remains exactly same dark soul combat. So you will face bosses/enemies having high poise and health bar of dark souls, relentlessness and unpredictable behavior of blood borne and extremely long combos of sekiro. It's just not fun. I feel like I am fighting nioh bosses with souls combat. I would rate elden ring 10/10 for world building and atmosphere but end game is not fun and by end game I mean at least 40% of the remaining content.
I absolutely love this game I came into this new not knowing what I was going to get myself into but after playing it for almost 50 hours I can 100% say the game is an absolute masterpiece and when it comes to performance issues I haven't noticed any or experienced any so yeah play it.
this is a great game, it has a beautifully crafted world, an very interesting lore, awesome classic Fromsoft combat mechanics, that being said. it has som issues, but nothing too heavy in my experience, is a very decent launch for what things are today though, very very very good game
First time I've ever cared to review a game because this game is simply a masterpiece. Yes there are some framerate issues on the PC, but even with it's few flaws this game keeps making me ask the question, "Is this the best game of all time?" I'm about 40 hours in so I won't say it is or isn't until I've completed it. It definitely is top 5 for me already.
Why did I get trolled into thinking yet another Souls game wouldn't be complete and utter trash? The open world aspect combined with GRRM supposedly writing the story **** me in. Oh how trolled I am yet again. Story? STORY?! It's the same non-story all these crap games have. What the hell was GRMM Needed for? There is no story as per usual. Open world? No more or less than the other titles were. You're still gear gated into linearity, except now you just have more ways to screw yourself beyond repair and have to just start a new save if you get stuck early in an area such as the the poisonous swamp from a "treasure portal". I have a newsflash for all the fanboys of these crap games: It is in fact NOT GOOD GAME DESIGN to have an area near the starting area, with the lowest tier enemies, get trolled into opening a treasure chest, have it teleport you to an area THAT YOU CANNOT TELEPORT OUT OF, yes even the first campfire near that area cannot be teleported out of, so if you have no gear, no horse, well you just need to start a new save now. Cool great design. They really respect the player's time with this crap. Also I know this genius mechanic I'm next going to talk about is present in all Soulscrap games, but how in the world is it good design to just permanently lose all your experience/gold if you die and can't get back to your death spot? That isn't fun, it only angers you, depresses you, and wastes your time. I'd be halfway fine with having to fight the same enemies over and over again, but when you have the added bs of just losing all of your experience it just isn't good game design. Period. And you're wrong if you think otherwise, objectively wrong. Have fun torturing yourself with yet another awful installment with this franchise. If you didn't like the games before - trust me you won't like em now, even w/ GRRM's name sleezily stamped all over it.
absolutely amazing game. Would recommend to anyone any day, definitely game of the year, perhaps even top 10 best games of all time so far? the fact that people who never even read up on fromsoftwares games and instead of bothering to learn the game they get salty, rage quit, and review bomb it to make themselves feel better and make it seem like its the games fault is honestly kind of upsetting but i'm sure they will come around to their senses.
The culmination of all the souls games thus far. Takes the best of each and polishes it. One of the best open worlds I've ever played through despite the developer's lack of experience with such. Never experienced the alleged performance issues, playing with an NVIDIA 1080. It has removed a great deal of the tedious grinds experienced in bloodborne, smoothed out the alternative playstyles of dark souls 3, and fully integrated the new systems introduced in sekiro, making it into one of the smoothest experiences I have ever had, without compromising on the challenge. Amazing game.
i was sceptical but they did it. will list rational pro-contra eventually (still playing atm, might be the first 100% after dark souls 1 I attempted in the whole souls franchise)
Let's start for de beginning, the game is a dark souls 4, the history resembles dark souls 1, a ring shatter is like the flame. The tarnished is like the guy with the fourth flame. The grafics is amezing even in the low settings and bla bla bla. Gameplay ****, it's literally just difficult fight, nothing else, none sidequest remarcable. The map is big which can look really cool at the start. But even the boss look the same. There is litteraly 6 or 7 enemy who is a knight. the gradon the same the only difference is the element of them. and the map has not much to offer.
Overhyped garbage PS3 level graphics with horrendous performance on high end hardware. Terrible stutters and framedrops. The game itself is boring and bland.. Terrible gaming mechanics. There is no way to keep track of what you are doing and what you have done. Morbid, garish art. A non existent story, there's nothing compelling or engaging about any of it.. Gameplay itself is a horrendous grind fest, a mindless slog and rewardless git-guddery. The open world is graphically sub-standard (think software from 2013), utterly lifeless and uninteresting with often re-used enemies and terrible dungeon design. The UI is pure horror, game is massively unfun, and terribly ported. It's Dark Souls in an open field with a huge glowing tree in the middle - the "open world" is really just enclosed areas with individual sections, with weird creatures all just waiting until you get within range. There is no AI, just animals and enemies scattered about the landscape, step inside their attack radius, they come at you, step outside it, they stop. Skyrim's AI was better, and that game is 11 years old.
Another overhyped triple A release that fanboys will inevitably defend no matter how many obvious flaws that are staring them in the face so disregard any 9 or 10 reviews. Its pretty obvious at this point that this game is not even close to the "masterpiece" that "critics" and fanboys are claiming it is. I swear the term "masterpiece" gets tossed around so casually these days that its become irrelevant along with mainstream video game journalism. I truly cannot comprehend how you can look past all the performance issues/reused assets and then call this a good game. The open world is easily the most glaring flaw because its so empty and generic. Unlike games like BOTW or Witcher 3 there aren't many ways you can interact with the environment outside of picking up useless crafting materials. The optional dungeons are essentially chalice dungeons from bloodborne except with more copy and paste boss designs and rewards that make going through them seem like a waste of time(spoiler, they are). For all the fuss about GRR martin being the writer there is very little payoff. I was hoping he would give a more solid narrative other than the usual endless stream of item descriptions that are beyond overplayed at this point but I guess I expected too much from what everyone is calling a "masterpiece". The combat is(you guessed it) more of the same. The only difference is that there is a jump button which has very little impact on what you do when fighting, you'll still be dodging, hitting, and then chugging estus in between. Anyone claiming this is good combat needs to be reminded how many souls games there have been and how it isn't impressive anymore. As a veteran I expected much more from the combat but hey, masterpiece amiright? The NPC's are just as generic as the world they inhabit. The moment I encountered a talking jar was the point where I knew all semblance of immersion had been tossed out the window. No longer is there any coherence between what they are doing vs what you're doing in the world, now its just wacky nonsense. As a souls veteran I'm pretty disgusted with the praise elden ring has received. It does nothing better than the original dark souls or demons souls so putting it on a pedestal just shows how easily reviews can be bought and fool casuals. I use this game as a litmus test to see how easily fooled someone is by video game hype, disregard any positive opinion on this game as market brainwashing, because that's all it usually is.
If you liked any of the Fromsoft games starting with Demon's Souls you'll love it. If you didn't, then perhaps Elden Ring is not for you. While it is more forgiving than some of FS's previous titles, it's still a "souls" game... Be ready to spend hours trying to figure out enemy's movement patterns and die a lot. If this does not sound appealing then again, this game is not for you. What differs it from previous games is the world, which is not only open but manages to avoid the ubisoft formula. There are very few icons on the world map marking locations, and they only pop up once a location is discovered. There is no filler in the shape of find-all-flags or collect-all-logs and so on. There are no objective markers, a journal, quest log, character dossiers, collectibles etc. You are expected to pay attention to what NPC's are asking you to do, often indirectly and often in passing. I found this refreshing, as most games these days seem to be going out of their way to force you to experience everything they have to ofter, and they will remind you of the things you haven't, every time you open a map. When you discover a new location in ER, it's your discovery, rather than an inevitable stop on a theme park ride prepared by the devs. I liked it, would recomend it to a friend.
This game need dx11 API and dx12 put in the back burner cause its still in alpha. The game also needs a diffcult slider so the casual none sweaty gamers can still have fun. Many players have not played a darksouls game starting in this game. The game crashes 2 to about 6 times in a 24 hour period. Needs mod support! If change will change the review. The game is not good without a easy difficulty!
I'm running the game on a 1660 TI with mostly smooth gameplay. I'm sure the performance issues will be patched for others soon. As for the game in itself? Simply beautiful. After creating a second character I managed to find much more of the story content / NPC interactions which enriched my playthrough. I recommend buying information notes from the vendor in the game because it'll cue you in on some of the underlying richness of this world. The game is hard but the world provides many avenues for players to progress. After 50+ hours in the game Irate this game 9.5/10. Taking off points for some over used enemies like the dragons and charging boar thing....
How Fromsoft can't do a proper pc port after 3 souls game and sekiro is one of the great mysteries of this world. Even though I can see that the game is good from my playtime so far, how can I give this more than a 5 when I'm getting killed because I can't see wtf is happening during some battles? And no it's not a "git good" problem, I've finished all dark souls games and sekiro, it's an optimization problem and Fromsoft clearly not giving a **** about pc gamers. The only 2 games where my pc started farting furiously as soon as they loaded are cyberpunk 2077 and elden ring and if you've heard anything about cyberpunk that alone says a lot. Even with all options turned down to the lowest possible I get 20-40 fps on 1080p in open world and these drop even more on boss fights. Not to mention the occasional stuttering which sometimes turns into death warrant. It's shameful asking full price for a game at this state and even releasing it at this state in the first place. Have we all just accepted that we'll be beta testing games from now on?
It's a new FromSoftware game, but now without shackles to hold it down. The game is amazing, I'm 70 hours in and the game just won't stop amazing me. It's so much happening, there are so many weapons, the addition of Ash of war just makes the combat so much dipper, the boss fights... don't even get me started on that. I've beaten the main boss in the Calid Region, and boy oh boy... What a boss fight. I don't wanna spoil it but that was just the most fun battle I've had in video games.
How can a game released in 2022 be this bad of a port onto the PC? If you cannot support comfortable and intuitive Keyboard and Mouse controls then at least make every control re-mappable. The Graphics and gameplay were OK, but not enough to excuse the stuttering and clipping issues on a PC that can run other new titles at max settings. However, the lack of Keyboard and Mouse controls were the deal breaker. Uninstalled and got my Steam refund.
game of the year for sure i haveing a hard time on pc with keyboard tho but its still fun
A must play. Do yourself a favor and don’t listen to the negative reviews from maidenless gamers who have been conditioned to need easy games, hand holding, and no thought. This game is not that. Most the the negative comments are explained by lack of attention to detail. There is literally a tutorial 10 minutes into the game. There is a rich story. There is a rich and beautiful environment full of life. The game has built on the successful gameplay and atmosphere from previous titles. Get the game, take it slow, learn, pay attention and thank me later.
I have never played a From Software game before Elden Ring. It took me a while to get used to the gameplay and questing. After playing for about 30ish hours of game time I absolutely love this game. The open world, the graphics, the combat system it's all amazing.
The game is a masterpiece, and this review is directed towards people who are interested but hesitant because of the negative reviews. While I have experienced, some performance hiccups, they did not detract from my experience playing the game. I do not believe that they will remain in the game given some patchwork. If you have bought the game and have issues with performance, I can understand being disappointed, but I urge you to get a refund and withhold judgment on it. Come back at a later time, because this is going to be a timeless masterpiece and it would be a shame to not experience it in it's fullest. Games are very complicated and pretty much impossible to get running perfectly for everyone, but given time I believe they will get the game running much better for people who at least have the required hardware or better. This belief is based on fromsoft's previous track record of having initial difficulty with PC ports and the sheer amount of effort clearly put into this game. They clearly care. I don't believe the game deserves criticism for how it presents its story, or difficulty. Nor do I believe it deserves criticism for not having the highest fidelity graphics. This is not the game for you if you are looking for a game that has a lot of story to ingest, or doesn't require much of the player in general. There is nothing wrong with that, people are allowed to have their own interests, but that does not make the game a bad game. If you are interested in the visuals I would argue that, despite not being the most realistic or being the highest fidelity, Elden ring has presented me with some of the most, if not the absolute most, awe inspiring vistas and visuals I have ever seen in a game. I would also argue that Elden Ring is a game that prioritizes gameplay (as I believe all games should but that is my opinion), and if you believe that it shouldn't maybe it isn't the game for you, but that doesn't make it a bad game for it's target audience. As for people struggling with the difficulty, contrary to what a lot of people think the intention behind the game isn't explicitly to be difficult, but rather to present a meaningful challenge that is rewarding to overcome. It is about learning and thinking outside the box. There are plenty of ways to make encounters more manageable, they are however left for the players to figure out. Being hard doesn't make the game bad. This game is quickly becoming one of my favorite games ever, but it's not for everyone. That said not every game needs to be for everyone. I recommend the game, but I also recommend getting a friend to let you try it first if you are unsure. Games are about entertainment so find a game you enjoy and don't be mad at people for liking a game that isn't made for you.
Fromsoftware did it again!! 16gb of ram and 1050 ti without any performace problems Flawless game #gitgud
It's a beautiful game with a lot going for it, but it's simply too hard to be enjoyable. I wish your character was more agile around the world. For being an open-world game, it sure limits where you can go. Rocks that any physically capable human could climb are impossible to climb over.
No direction or instruction, terrible UI, gameplay is bland with terrible hitboxes (player and NPC) and doesnt ever get fun. Not fun at level 10 and not fun at level 50. Super disappointed...
The PC launch was rocky for a couple days. I experienced lots of performance drops. However, with the recent Radeon drivers and updates, the game rarely dips on a Ryzen 3600 and 6700 XT. The environments are better than any fantasy RPG that has been released to this point. Many of the vistas are like looking at a painting. This is highlighted by many of the in game paintings of the vistas in artist shacks. The artwork is fantastic, beyond anything other companies have attempted to do to this point. From Software has mainly focused on decaying or dying worlds. This is also true for Elden Ring. Instead of having a ton of quests requiring logs and tracking, there are localized quests and a few long, story-driven quests to follow. Many of these take you to places you would explore on your journey. When NPCs talk about them, it is very likely you already have the location on your map. Joining factions often gives you the ability to teleport to their base. The open world is expertly crafted. It leads you to where you need to go without annoying tracking systems that have plagued RPGs in the last decade. Many players will miss such systems, desiring for the game to tell them where to go. This game is more about exploration, and the exploration is rewarded well. Often with a new weapon, art, or summon. Multiplayer in the game is integrated well into the game world. Invasions still occur, but only in multiplayer sessions. As you have seen from other reviews, the game is difficult and frustrating for some people to solo. If you want to play alone, around half of the optional bosses are tedious fights without over leveling or having a good build. Coop is necessary for many parts of the game. Coop is where the game shines. Use it. It is easy to drop in and help others or find players at many of the summon points throughout the game. Playing multiplayer opens you up to invasions, which provide a sort of miniboss for coop players. Many invaders come prepared with good builds, items, and arts. Rarely do they win though since they often face 3-4 players. At this point, everyone is packing some sort of weapon art or spell that will make quick work of another player. You have to be a better player to win. Few games really integrate everything into a game so well. If you enjoy hard games, are willing to do coop, git gud, and enjoy exploration, then this is a good title for you. If you are looking for a single player MMO, then it isn't for you.
The selling point for me was the "story by George RR Martin" - however, after playing for about 8-10 hours there does not appear to be much of a story. The game initially would not run on my PC. I had to google Reddit forums for tricks on how to do so. Game controls were mapped to an Xbox controller. Had to Google reddit forums on how to switch to PC. I made it to one mini-boss that was punishingly difficult far beyond any ability to enjoy the challenge. Good game design is not just enemies that pummel you mercilessly over and over again. I remember buying Skyrim on release day, and it was infinitely more enjoyable than Elden Ring. Give me Super Mario or Legend of Zelda any day over this nonsense.
This game is insanely addicting fun, first time playing a souls game seriously after I ditched DS1 remastered since I didn't feel like playing anything grindy anymore, yet I'm already more than 45 hours in since release. the open world exploration is so wide, the view of the landscape/map is super beautiful, fighting bosses and enemies are difficult (expected) but it still feels fun and extremely rewarding. as for performance it does stutters a lot on the first few days of release but it was thankfully fixed after the update and for me at least I'm playing with barely that much lag, honestly I haven't had this much fun playing a game since god knows how long ago. to the ones who rated this bad cause its super difficult + "bad graphics", first of all u got skill issue + cope + L + touch grace + no maidens.
I never review games but in this case, after reading some bad ones im confused. The game is an absolute Masterpiece. A journey to think about your actions, builds, paths to take, decisions regarding your progression and were taking risks really matter. Bad reviews are from assassins creed players that want an empty game that underestimate you. This game wont treat you like a drooling brainless corpse and I love that.
Unplayable for me- PS5 controller not supported. Keyboard not really supported (many attacks impossible to do and there's no key mappings, so you're trying to click all the buttons on your keyboard to try to figure out how to do things. Also, why does it require a secondary weapon to two-hand weapons. Looks and sounds great! Shame you can't play it unless you have an X-Box controller specifically, and then good luck with all the dropping frame rates and limited graphics options from like 5 years ago.
10/10. Nearly perfect in almost every aspect I can think of, only a few minor gripes, all of which are completely overshadowed by everything else. Negligible performance issues for my case.
Elden Ring is very cool game i thınk. optimization is meh but optimization is not a problem for me
This is the most fun game I've played since the original dark souls. I'm having almost no frame rate or studdering issues that are noticable, between my PC and gysnc. But I also expected hiccups from fromsoft, it's fromsoft after all. In it's current state I'd probably rate a 9 but gotta offset the review bomb of people who have no concept of anything.
This game is literally a masterpiece. Loved everything from the gameplay, complex plot, feeling, a challenge which this game gave me to the ultimate satisfaction.
Best open world game I have played so far, it invite us to explore the world and not just "go there, them go there" and so, everything you do, everything you achieve, is was only because of you and that's amazing. In terms of difficulty? Bery challenging, but it give you the tools to make it more "easy" you just have to look for it, again it recompense you for exploring. However is still very challenging, so you should know what you are gonna play before buying. You wouldn't buy a 1000 pieces jigsaw if you don't want to ensamble it would you? Same thing here. Overall my personal best game of the year so far.
I think this is the best From Software souls game (just behind sekiro). But poor optimization and some crashs problems. For me, some minor problems.
An Amazing game that sadly, like every popular souls game, got review bombed by haters. The minor stutters and fps drops are rare and barelly noticeable.
The best souls-like, best FromSoft game, one of the best games ever made, poor optimization, -1 point for this, its a shame people with budget pc's cant experience the game yet, but in a couple of months itll be one of the best games in the universe when everybody will play it with no techical troubles.
Very excellent game overall, yeah it's got some failure on frame drops, stutter, etc.. but it's not game breaking, so I have a good time most of my first playthrough. My system running Ryzen 7 with RTX 3060. I thought I can finish the game about 3 days, I was wrong. To explore search nook and cranny in this game takes a lot of my time, figure out the questline of every character makes it harder. All NPC have a bad ending for me, my fault I do a bad decision after all. 10/10 for me, thanks Fromsoft.
It's incredible. Elden Ring has a lot of bosses, a huge and interesting open world and a huge variety of zones and enemies. Elden ring has the best of dark souls, sekiro and bloodborne, and It's a really clever mix of them. 10/10.
Elden ring is definitely my best of the souls, a masterpiece in some respects, but ... We expect more, in 2022 you cannot see certain things, first of all the graphics sector is at the ps4 level or perhaps less and on pc we expect much, much more. The frame rate locked at 60 fps, which is absolutely a poor choice. No ultrawide support, even this bad. Free multiplayer, no more summons, change summons by zone, you just want multiplayer, base the game on that. One last thing, this lore thing is a bit out of hand, make a real story, just read descriptions from, put some cutscene, the tokens for the npc to talk to, give a form of path, in a open world it is extremely difficult to find the characters hidden in the map
Gaming porn with some minor problems, but soundtrack is weakest in souls series
What an absolute great game. Brutal, yes. But it is so Awesome to traverse this beautiful landscape. Your victories are incredibly satisfying.I’m running with 32gb of RAM and an i7 10700k with a 2070 super and zero issues with performance. This is a must have game if you are even remotely interested in Open world RPG’s. Great job, From Software.
Among the most banal games I've ever played. The point appears to be to wonder boringly through a half-empty world, dying repeatedly and pointlessly. The story is either non-existent or, when it does make an appearance, utterly cringey, written presumably by an adolescent who just watched Lord of The Rings. Every year games become less like art and more like fast food. No, that's not true. There are plenty of good games out there. This one just isn't it.
GOTY. Please play the game before writing a review. Please play the game before writing a review. Please play the game before writing a review.
This is my first souls-like game I've ever played, and is absolutely one of the funnest, most entertaining, rewarding, and occasionally infuriating (in a good way) gaming experiences I've had in nearly 10 years. I was prepared by some friends before playing regarding the challenging world and needing to skip some fights, which helped a lot. This is the game I've been wanting to play for so long. It may be because I'm older now, but I am just not interested in a lot of the more kid oriented, bubbly, neon colored, and flashy games available right now. I am thoroughly enjoying this artistic design and lack of hand holding. Thank you to whoever the developers of this game are!
[1080ti/8700k]- Stuttering is almost nonexistent for me except for new area loading. Running b/w 54-60 FPS at 1440P with it almost always sitting at 60. Almost all setting are set to High. 9/10 +Souls-like combat that you expect +Amazing art & enemy design +Something to explore everywhere on the map and you are rewarded for adventuring +Variety in how you approach mobs/enemies -/+ Recycled Assets -/+ Storytelling for the masses is not the best (I really liked sekiros storytelling but it is much more linear) -Game needs some polishing in the animation department (ex. I hate how dialogue and mouth movement do no match) -Formulaic (Fromsoftware needs to make something new from the ground up with a new engine and try to step away from its souls-like predecessors) **For me my pros definitely out-weighs my neutral and negatives and I am having a blast**
General * Mounted Fall damage is completely inconsistent, making the dumb jump pads (?HORSE TRAMPOLINES???? MY IMMERSION. WHAT HAPPENED TO THIS WORLD.) seem even more pointless in comparison. * The game allows you to "equip" gear you "can't" use without adequately explaining or notifying you how much its actually impairing you. (Accidentally press a few keys fumbling through the ported interface and equip a sword that looks just like the one you were already using, but apparently you're too weak to hold right? Your damage will suffer and you'll just go on thinking all these bosses have lots of armor and health.) * Crashes alt tabbing a lot. * The lack of focus the game exhibits really gives the impression it's been rushed and is not groundbreaking in any way, infact, taking several steps back. It's laughable to have no explanation or training for the core mechanics, but you'll receive a popup blurb you have to click through advising you some stupid side quest NPC will accept some dumb item you just received for a pointless endeavour. How about the game introduce itself to us before asking us to babysit? Interface * There's no keybind listing for "open map" if you open controls/bindings, so if you don't know what the binding is and are new to the game series, you never use the map. The first time I noticed an npc telling me they "marked it on my map", it didn't remind me what hotkey to push. * You cannot press the UNIQUE map hotkey again to close the map. * No explanation what the more esoteric stat names really do, or even what the simple ones do other than gear equip requirements. * You can't keep moving while using the map, unlike every other aspect of the interface. * It takes a long time and a lot of navigation to leave the game their "intended" way. * Why is the inventory UI so **** - scrolling horizontally in a menu to select which category of item I want to mouse over and view in my bags? Why am I scrolling through 10 item types every time I obtain some stupidly named item to try and figure out what the **** I just looted? Gameplay * ELDEN RING's mounted combat and controls manage to make Trial of the Crusader jousting dailies feel great in comparison. * Mounted combat auto locking on and circling requires an enormous amount of finesse to fight against the steering wheel, per se. * Speaking of, how is it that I have over an entire page of crafting material but don't know how to use it yet? Game, are you there? * Runes rewarded from creatures make no sense? Getting very low runes from tougher creatures has made trying to fight stuff that is challenging not really worth the time. * For whatever reason rolling feels worse than before, oh well I guess I designed the wrong character with stats I dont understand and equipped something that is encumbering me but **** me because the game isn't telling me that, for damn sure. * Why is the horse with the dumb named so influential to the game? It isn't satisfying to use the horse and all of its clearly overpowered and hamfisted **** * Can't figure out the weird weapon special ability flourish enhancement enchantment imbuement Ash of War or whatever the **** it is system. It's like Materia or something right? I don't know, it didn't give an explanation. World * Is the expectation for a "FROM SOFTWARE" game that you use a player-created internet guide while you go through the game otherwise you're not playing it the intended way? * The open world isn't very rewarding, I stopped looting flowers and berries after the 50th of each type. Lots of areas with enemies and different types of camps or castles don't give you anything. * Story takes itself way too seriously considering it's the same **** cares that george martin is involved? Broadly speaking, this is the exact same brush used to fill in the story of the previous souls games. We're dis-eased souls (TARNISHED!) fighting to regain my HUMANITY or purity or grace or whatever it is, lighting Bonfires err Grace torches along the way... it's an identical story and Azerite Power has just been renamed to Runic Power. * PS even the "good areas" are downright depressing. Game might literally be **** my soul away with its vibe. Universe * Why are there so many identical assets from earlier Dark Souls games? Is this just a Chinasoft clone and a hodgepodge mish mash of all "FROM SOFTWARE" game design concepts at the same time? * Standing by my earlier appraisal that ELDEN RING feels like a rushed expansion to an earlier Dark Souls and it isn't a "very good" standalone game, it's mediocre at best. * Can't say its because I don't have patience to explore, I enjoyed over 200 hours of Arkane's Prey (a game that actually is a masterpiece, unlike ELDEN RING) * This is Sunk Cost Fallacy: The Game. "Maybe after 12 hours I'll figure out what the **** I SHOULD be doing... okay, I'm 20 hours in, I guess I have to beat this so it didn't beat me."
Amazing!! Dark souls, almost perfected. Camera still ****. Game design is beautiful! Gigantic open world that is daunting. If you can see it you can get to it. THIS IS THE MOST ACCESSIBLE SOULS GAME EVER, PERIOD. Fast travel, checkpoints, summon pools, summon spells. Game is difficult for sure. The game pits you against an overpowered enemy immediately to let you know you’re not ready. Go level up, learn the mechanics, then come back and kick his ass. That’s the hook. You earn every kill in these games. PC has some tech issues, nothing that broke the experience though. “Praise the sun!!” Evga 3070 ultra, Ryzen 5600x
This is the ultimate version of Dark Souls. So much content, so much to explore!
This is my biggest video-game-disapointment ever. A dark souls game of extreme quality, that has been opened for the casual gamer. That was my expectation. Now, 30 hours of later, im deinstalling, and am not going to ever play this, nor buy any From Software game ever again... Honestly: I regret the 30 hours of frustration i had, and the hilarious amount i paid for it. It basically is just a fighting simulator. There is nothing more in this game. Run around, fight difficult to impossible (for me) battles, grind endlessly, progress extremely slowly, and, from time to time, discover items that may or may not be useful for you. You will die a lot, lose all character progress regulairly, and generally, have no idea what this game is actually about. The story is non-existent, the world is extremely lifeless, and just filled with enemies that wait only or you, and the storyline will come to an end pretty fast, because you will just not be able to beat the bosses. At least, if you are a casual gamer iike me. Which forces you to battle easy opponents forever, as rewards and character developement are hardly more than a cosmetic feature. Of course there are ways to exploit the game, but as soon as i need youtube in a tab to achieve any chance of progression, a game has failed for me. My last experience in this game, after exploring the whole starting region desperately, was a sorceress who finally enabled me to learn new spells. Which gave me hope, that the torture had come to an end. And guess what: Those spells are far weaker than the weak ones, that you start with. Its a slap in the face, and im sure, that its an intended one. This is Elden Ring in a nutshell...
Honest review X hours in: If you were expecting them to balance enemy damage in proportion to their health and mobility, you're going to be sorely disappointed. If you were expecting them to finally realize they already had a sensible poise system in Dark Souls 1 and to stop trying to fix what was never broke, you're going to be sorely disappointed. If you were expecting them to stop gimping blocking in most boss fights in favor of rolling like they did in DS3, you're going to be sorely disappointed. If you were expecting them to learn how to do enemy grab attacks reasonably (i.e. not generally obnoxious with regards to damage and homing), you're going to be sorely disappointed. If you were expecting them to cut back on every single enemy having a wombo combo that can chunk your health, you're going to be sorely disappointed. If you were expecting them to cut back on staggered attack animations that give enemies the ability to hit you anyway unless you empty your stamina bar rolling and generally make evasion harder than it needs to be, you're going to be sorely disappointed. If you were expecting them to realize that giving AI controlled enemies the ability to parry with absolute perfection would only result in unfair deaths to the player via 1 shot, you're going to be sorely disappointed If you were expecting them to figure out that denying a player their full potential by limiting it with a consumable effect that is lost when you die (Rune Arc in this case, Cinders in DS3) is an asinine idea with exactly 0 merit, you're going to be sorely disappointed. If you were expecting them to make a primary feature (lock on camera) finally be more a help than a hindrance, you're going to be sorely disappointed. If you were expecting them to handle fall damage well, you're going to be sorely disappointed. If you were expecting them to make it so you can't be hit and killed when you're not able to actually control your character (being pancaked, etc), you're going to be sorely disappointed. To expand a bit further, I've personally just started referring to the design philosophy that seems to guide FS as "Anti-player" or **** the player". I say this because for the 3rd game in a row (I'm exempting Bloodborn from this castigation because it at least had the rally mechanic and other compensatory features) FromSoftware has hit on all the predictable trademarks that have come to dominate their poor design. Every enemy has a wombo combo, i.e. a combo that hits for outrageous damage or # of hits. This compounds with the next 2 points heavily. Every enemy can hit you regardless of where you are in relation to them because they can just 180, have exaggerated attack animations or just have an animation that involves them holding their attack, running up to you, and hitting you anyway, or any combination of the 3. Every build that isn't fast and focused on dodging is made to feel vastly inferior because they refuse to acknowledge that they can't come up with poise systems that are better than what they had in Dark Souls 1. The number of deaths I had to deal with because I literally could not move for various reasons in ratio to the ones that were genuinely my fault (and lord are they many) is actually staggering. You can get hit, rendered unable to move or roll or act, then hit again. Combined with aforementioned lack of balance around damage done to the player, you typically are not going to survive the second hit. They fumble the open world aspect because there is negligible space between "no fall damage" and "**** instant death", they don't even restore your mounts health when you respawn. Having recently replayed through Demon's Souls, Dark Souls, Dark Souls 2 and Dark Souls 3 in their entirety, I'm left to draw one of two different conclusions: Option A: They are unable to balance things properly just because, and that Dark Souls 1 being largely really well done in that regard was nothing short of a cosmic stroke of luck. Option B: They simply don't care to, because again, their game design philosphy over the years has gone from "tough but fair" to **** the player" I'm not entirely sure which would be the most depressing. I'm done with FromSoft tbh, bring on the "not helpful" brigades because I dared hang them out to dry.
Masterpiece. Fromsoft has done it again. I am so happy this is absolutely a must play.
This game is frustrating and boring. I can see where maybe some people would like it, but I imagine for most people it's going to ****. There's little guidance overall, the tutorial is hidden in a hole, the first waypoint sends you to be murdered by an overpowered boss, there are no normal monsters to fight until after you've been filled by 1) an unkillable plot-armor boss and 2) the OR boss they guide you into, etc... Not to mention the controls ****, since its a pretty clear console port. Bottom line-- it's lame.
I can't believe some of the people on here, they are just ridiculous! I made an account just to counteract the terror attack that has befallen this masterpiece ****. Shame on you people! The amount of work that was put into this game alone should be enough to earn praise, and all your negative reviews are doing is hurting the people who made it. These people are review bombing this game because of occasional stuttering, very occasional by the way, as I have 90+ hours already put into this game and just can't put it down! So people are angry about a bit of stuttering, that's no reason to give it a 0 rating, none of you are actually taking the game itself into account. I seem to remember another game that had performance issues due to its massive size, however it retained its positive rating and is hailed as one of the greatest games of all time. If course, I'm speaking of skyrim. To the people who want actual reviews, please use your brains and read some reviews, you'll see that it's really a great game, even made inviting to non souls-like players. No it does not have ultra wide support, but does it deserve to die based on that? Come on people, think a little. Also someone mentioned bad controller support, but none of the people I play with nor myself have had any issues with this, so I don't know where that's coming from. In closing, please be fair to the great developers of this game, have some common decency. I know this is the internet, and you can do what you like, but is that really the kind of person you want to be? Think about it.
The performance issues are almost gone, still an occasional stutter but nothing too bad. Love this game!
Beautifully wonderful, fantastically amazing game. I just hit 100 hours and I'm getting close to the end. It works perfectly on my computer, no problems at all. I'll definitely definitely be playing the NG+ and creating a new character!
This is simply one of the most astonishing games I have ever played. In a few words, responding to the critics: if you are in trouble for the difficult, what did you expect from From Software? if you are having technical issues, I am with you, I hope you will get to enjoy this masterpiece; if you think that there is not any kind of innovation, play for some hours and come back here. There are tons of mechanics that makes this game a true RPG, of that kind we are not used to see, nowadays. And the story, check the descriptions of the items and try not to skip all dialogues, trust me. Finally, do you really think that Forbidden West is innovative? It's a masterpiece, of course. but it is the exact same thing of Zero Dawn. Hope to see you in the Lands Between, fellows Tarnished.
FROMSOFT delivers yet again. Please buy this; support this company, there one of the very few good ones left.
Good looking. (Full sopp). Nothing else. Some reviewers dare comparing it to Witcher 3... those are 2 different levels though. Elden Ring has zero character developed, no relatable stories.....well no stories at all. Forced myself to play 10 whole hours thinking that I must be missing **** no... I quit...
Excellent gameplay, great story and side stories, NPCs are interesting and as long as you have a couple of brain cells the huge variety of options to tackle any given task mean that the. Difficulty is basically up to you
The game is amazing. The only issue is that it has some performance issues, but other than that the game is amazing.
Big fan souls here so i was really exited with the release, when i first logged in there where invisible enemies?¿ all over the map (bug never got fixed), plus when i tried to minimize the game MY WHOLE PC would crash... Played around 11 hours and after the 1.02.2 update the game just crashes on launch? this is just some cyberpunk level game, the time i played game was pretty good but way too buggy, would be better to wait and fix it for pc before releasing whatever this is. Oh and performance is horrible, seems like no company tries to optimize games anymore, they just want you to have a **** ultimate generation gamer pc with a 2k graphics card. don't know if it have to do with open world or something but i have a ryzen 7 5700, 16 ram, ssd and gtx 660 and fps drop is **** insane. Just another company that goes for the profits and not for the player experience.
No out-of-the box ultrawide support? FPS lock taken from consoles? Terrible menu, stuttering and other performance issues. Not worth playing on PC.
Not a terrible game, but has a lot of issues. The PC port is one of the worst of all time. There is no proper keyboard and mouse support, there are random locked keybindings for menu navigation. All the prompts are using controller buttons. A lot of people report stuttering and crashes. The game looks at least 5 years dated if not 10 years. Poor animations as if I'm playing "Risen" or something. And the performance is similarly not in line with its looks. Comparing it to the recent Sony ports for example is like night and day. Games like HZD or God of War really showcases how little effort Elden Ring devs put in towards making the game look good and run well on PC. The open world aspect of the game suffers from issues that plague most open world games. There's a lot to explore and a lot of stuff to find but most of it is meaningless filler. 90% of the loot you find does not feel rewarding for the time and effort you invest into finding it. The story and narrative is a mess. It's as if someone wrote a book and then put all the pages through a randomizer. There's some kind of a story, but it's basically intentionally vague and confusing so that you wouldn't even bother trying to understand it and would simply go and fight monsters. And as for the fighting - enemy AI is dumber than dirt, as if often the case with fantasy games. When it comes to creating non-human enemies, developers default to "they see you and they will chase you" coding. That's all there is. No tactics, no nothing. Bosses are fun to fight, but at the end of the day, they all boil down to the exact same thing. You learn their limited move set and then you can beat them to death with a club while being butt naked and not even taking a single point of damage. There are no crazy tactics and cool strategies to beat bosses. You can pretty much run through the whole game naked and weaponless if you could memorize every boss mechanic. Personally, I find that it takes out a lot of incentive to explore and try to improve your character, because even with good gear, a lot of the bosses still have moves that decimate you. So no matter what, you still kinda have to learn how to beat them. So more gear and xp just makes enemies faster to kill. Which is different from a lot of other games where you kinda have to level and gear up because the enemies are literally not possible to beat otherwise. The developers also clearly ran out of ideas a quarter of the way through the game. As whole areas and boss fights end up being copy-pasted and refurbished. The scenery might change a little, the enemies might be differently coloured, but they're same as before. This again isn't new to most open world games, but it does add more evidence to why Elden Ring doesn't really do much anything that's "next gen" or creative. All in all, I would recommend most people to check out the game, if only to be aware of what's one of the most hyped up games of all time. But get ready to refund the game, because odds are, you will not be particularly impressed by it. If the game even runs on your PC at all. I got my copy refunded on Steam without issue, so do make use of their generous refund policy to demo out the game.
The game is just great! It is beeing one of the best games of all my life and it has a looong time I dont feel to excited playing a game like I am feeling during the Elden Ring gameplay! But still there is some issues on the game... The frames drops are inexplicable, I dont see a reason for the fps dropping cause it happens randonly, but this definitely doesnt make game impossible to play as some other reviewers are saying, excepet while defeating the tree sentinel, yes, that battle has giants drops of fps, but in the rest of the game, nothing exagerated or boring and it will be fixed. Another default of the game, there is no crossplay :( this is really sad. But, for me, this game still deserves a 10 (cause there is no option for a 9.9 or 9.8 hahahaha so lets round it to 10) My pc config: RTX 2060, Ryzen 5 3600X and 16Gb ram. Playing the game on high settings.
OK. Not a 10 but not a zero either, great game with launch issues. As a PC gamer I understand we get perfect launches 100% of the time so understand the frustration from the people who are having issues and if I was near them would help put their toys back in their pram.
Greatest game I have ever played. It has all the classic soulsbourne elements and then some, and the most detailed open world of any game.
Masterpiece. I'm not sure if the Souls formula will work in an open world, but From definitely nailed it. There are secrets and bosses almost everywhere, and exploration is super rewarding. And the game gthe. More we play, the moe dense it is. Just some mi or performance issue on pc
Intro: * Based on the day one version of the game, so without any possible future patch. When I stopped playing, the latest patch was the 1.02.3 * Played on (a pretty good) computer * Even though I’ve played the game both online and offline, I don’t feel like I’ve used the online features enough to take them into account in this review, so I won’t Pro: + Amazing graphic and animations + Really beautiful cutscenes + Incredible OSTs + The level of details in the interiors of the structures is astonishing + Soulsborne combat system's mechanics at their best + Map and possibility to place pins + Fast travel enabled between checkpoints + Many checkpoints + Tutorials + Audio mixing options + Big enemies destroy the environment when moving or attacking + Defeating the leader **** makes the other enemies frightened + The mount is extremely useful and comfortable to use + Amazing battles with the steed + High amount of content + Running outside of combat does not consume stamina Cons: - Poor performances - Death by fall damage unclear - Death planes in order to not make you go in specific places - No possibility to pause even if playing offline - Cannot access map when in battle (even though it doesn't pause the game) - The "intended" path for scaling difficulty is unclear - Extremely low "exp" rewards from killing enemies or bosses, especially in early game - Hard to find armors in early-mid game - Most dungeons are extremely simple and short - Most dungeons have totally useless rewards - Completed dungeons are not marked as completed anywhere; it's up to the player to keep track of which have been completed - The camera is bad (just like any Souls) - Enemies and NPCs have infinite mana - Repost on many bosses deals insignificant damage - Some bosses remove far too much stamina with every hit if blocked - Some bosses are not viable with many builds - Exaggerated reuse of some bosses/enemies - Flying enemies are extremely hard to hit - Unclear quest triggers and the next place in which an NPC will appear is almost always totally unknown - Multiple quests are tied to optional areas and dungeons, and they might be forever lost if dungeons are not made in a specific order or if you miss a dungeon and advance too much in the main story (which is stupid in an open world) Miscellanous: * There are some bugs, but they’re not many or severe for an open world * Getting all the achievements/trophies might be tricky without a guide, since some quests or equipments might be lost if not obtained before a specific moment * Based on ****, most players play it for 50-60 hours, while a completionist run takes around 90-100 hours
I remember playing Morrowind for a year and a half back in 2003. I loved exploring that world. It felt like there was something new behind every corner and it kept me really invested. Then, after Oblivion was announced I patiently waited for almost 3 years for a new great adventure. When it was finally released in 2006, I woke up early and rushed to the store to buy it. After coming home and installing it, I was beyond excited. About 30 minutes later, when I exited the starting dungeon and got to the open world, it felt fantastic. That's exactly how Elden Ring felt after Dark Souls III. So far, it's everything I expected and even more. The open world exceeded my expectations by a lot. Insane variety of locations, enemies, spells, weapons and so on. At the moment of this review I'm 30 hours in, but I already feel like I experienced the density of 3 modern open-world games. The only game I can remember that had such a wonderful open world was Red Dead Redemption 2. So, that's definitely says something. I see a lot of reviews comparing it to the modern open world RPGs like Horizon Forbidden West and Assassin's Creed Valhalla. I don't think that's a fair comparison at all. Both of them are fine, but they're using the same open world formula that was around for years. They have insane amount of handholding that takes away your freedom in favor of smooth and painless experience. FromSoftware games are simply not like that. They designed to give you all much freedom as possible. Including adjusting the difficulty and discovering the story by yourself. In my opinion, this kind of approach is the golden standard that puts "open" in the "open world". However, there are 2 reasons why it currently has 6.4 average user score: 1. The game suffers from frame drops and stuttering. Not a deal breaker, but can be annoying if you're sensitive to it. I'm sure it will be patched eventually, but currently it isn't. 2. Elden Ring had the heaviest marketing campaign of any FromSoftware game. As a result, a lot of new people came around and some of them are not really understanding what is it all about. That includes Ubisoft and EA fans.
Poor day 1 optimisation is no reason to reviewbomb this masterpiece. As for the casuals who hate that there are no difficulty options, you already know what Im going to say... GIT GUD!
A masterpiece in gaming that will never be forgotten. This is generation defining.
what a good experience, this game makes me don't want to stop playing it...
Crashes on start up. Disconnects from online mode. Random crashes and frame drops. No widescreen. World could have more in - let's hope some mods sort this out if the anti cheat allows it. Meh. Worth at least one play through I guess.
Excellent game, open world that is actually filled with content. Combat system typical for souls series with some new elements such as ashes of war etc. Level design is astonishing, hidden items and pathways carefully put all around. The game looks beautiful even on low settings. 30 hours in and I had only 1 lag where the game crashed (I was alt tabbing a lot), since I put video settings on "medium-high" I stopped having even frame drops.
Steam users from Russia are complaining about the mass removal of the action role-playing game Elden Ring from their libraries and forced refunds. Some even threw out of the game in the process of passing. Judging by a number of comments, money has not yet been returned to someone's card, and this despite the fact that they can no longer play Elden Ring. And, of course, the situation is contrary to the rules of refunds on the platform, since the problem also affected those who played FromSoftware's creation for 50 or more hours.
Game has little optimization. Gave it a 10, hoping it will be improved later on, if it was already fixed, that's the score it would have.
Cry for ponies, cry for horizan woke west, The Elden Ring is here. Elden ring is as fun and addicing as Bloodbourne, with the exploration and excitment of BOTW..Playstation fanbos can be as salty as they want that it cracked Horizans back, but that doesn't change the fact that this game is a ****'s the puzzle piece the Souls games were missing..Grinding is gone, replaced with adventure and exploring..
I don't give anything a 10 out of 10 usually because nothing is perfect, but a 9 just felt wrong for Elden Ring. It is not PERFECT, but its the closest to perfect in a game I have experienced in a long, long time. It is challenging, but just the right level of difficulty and the beauty of the way this game has been crafted is that you can walk away from a fight that is just a bit 'too' difficult, level up some and come back and try again. Never before in a game has progression and levelling up seemed so tightly bound to your progress. It makes for a very engaging and addictive experience. The graphics are not absolutely spectacular, but they are beautiful nonetheless. The Art direction is splendid, everything looks so richly detailed and interesting and some of the vistas are breath taking. Enemy variation is excellent, you never know what challenge you are going to face around every corner, but it just makes for a very tense, exhilarating ride! Performance wise, PC has had a few **** issues, but thankfully nothing I have noticed too much (the odd frame drop) but I am sure FromSoftware are on top of this. This game is an absolute triumph. A Masterpiece. Please play it, you will not regret it.
Amazing achievement in game development. Maybe not for everyone but Fromsofts execution in bringing the now classic soulsbourne style to the open world is just outstanding
Well well, ignoring the optimization problem (the worst problem that a game should had) the game is just INCREDIBLE. I really love how FromSoftware worked on this game, maintaining the soul of her games (souls xd) but adding an amazing open world instead of a """"linear"""" world. I hope all of you'll get addict to this fantastic game like me ;D (in a good way off course) PS: sorry by my english, i'm kinda dumb :(
dark souls but bigger. i could not ask for more. the bosses are so fun and the open world is full of insane discoveries despite performance issues i haven't had a single second where I've felt bored playing elden ring
Best game ever. Just finished it. Don’t listen to the metacritic trolls who always review bomb games because they are bored, this game is a masterpiece like no other. It will change game like Zelda Botw.
Never been a souls fan, but im definatly an Elden Ring fan, this is by far one of the best games i have played in the year 2020. A full game with no DLC or MTX you get a full package right out the box and that is something we need more and more of. Just look at Grand Turismo, that game is littered with MTX and does not care to earn the respect of the gamers. Elden Ring is just a one of a kind game and im so glad i am alive to experience this!
I already wrote my review under the ps5 page. Just want to boost the score after a bunch of fools tried to review bomb the game for reasons only they know. Like always with great games or great and challenging games, people show their incompetence on metacritic or other user scores, ruining sites like this completely. As if someone doesn’t buys or buys a game based on your trash reviews lol. People already know that user score is invalid. So save your time and rather learn the game. Noob.
Let' be short and clear, for me it's the worst game from FromSoftware, i'm not giving a single f about optimization, i just cannot bear this open-empty world, even when you find cave or smth else, it's literally the same thing u probably have seen in the beginning of the game, bosses are a massive pieces of **** everything that they do is a massive AOES and horizontal hits at range of whole arena, i'm simply not enjoying fighting bosses with millions hp and trillions of damage, leave it for someone else. this game is not a god damn JPRG, leave more place for actual skill of the player but not for his level, overall i'm just really disappointed, it could've been much more cooler game
The note said "chest ahead" at the edge of a cliff with nothing in sight...there were plenty of bloodstains but they must've missed the jump... I had to be sure.
If you put 1000's of hours into other FromSoftware games like Dark Souls, Bloodborne, and/or Sekiro then you may put at least 10,000 hours into this game.
I think that this is truly a unique game and I would recommend that if you are a fan of this type of genre then I think you should give this game a try.
Let me start by saying that I only recently started playing games by From Software, starting first with Sekiro, then Dark Souls 3, started playing Dark Souls Remastered, but quickly hopped onto Elden Ring when it came out. I believe the game whole heartedly deserves of an 8.7/10 mainly due to performance issues, but I am rating it a 10/10 because of the imbalance there is with the reviews I have been reading (skip to last two paragraphs for more detailed explanation of what I mean). First let me address the overinflated, totally not an elephant elephant in the room, the performance issues. My computer can definitely hold its own: 1440p max settings with a 4 core xeon, 48 Gbs of ram , and a titan xp gpu. For me personally (your mileage may vary), I am having minimal to non-existant stuttering or framerate drop. Do stuttering and framerate drops occur? Yes. Was it significant enough that I couldn't enjoy the game? Hell no. Honestly, I can only attest to my own experience, but these performance issues occur so infrequently or not at all during my 1-2 hour play sessions that I forget its even issue people are actually complaining about. When stuttering does actually happen, it lasts no more than 2-3 seconds. I've put 30 hours into the game and look forward to my next 30 hours. As for gameplay, any comparison of Elden Ring to Far Cry is simply lazy and delusional. For the sake of comparison, I'd say this game is more on par with The Witcher 3. The crafting system is excellent, fighting is clean and smooth, leveling is a bit harder than souls 3, enemies are difficult and bosses are fun and challenging. I will say my biggest, and so far only frustration with the game is the button mapping. It is limited and I'm stuck wondering why does R3 also serve as a torrent dismount? The amount of times I've accidentally dismounted at the most inconvenient times is frustrating, and there are limited options for remapping. I also will not play on a mouse and keyboard because I'm not a lunatic. I find leveling up much harder on this game than in other souls game, but this is more of something I need to adjust to rather than a frustration. I have read many of the negative reviews and I completely understand why someone might not like a game due to the performance issues or lack of ultrawide support. Does that deem the game a 0/10. Absolutely not. Yet again, these are not professional reviewers who know how to properly evaluate something. Reviews take into consideration a variety of aspects, of which none never account for 100% of the score. So while performance is no doubt a category to be considered in a games overall score. It would never account for perhaps more than 20% of the final score. I literally just read a review that said 'it's a great game, but can't recommend it in this state - 0/10'. Really? It seems to me that reviews are either '0/10 - stuttering, no ultrawide' and mention nothing of the actual game itself. Or they are '10/10 masterpiece and completely ignore the performance issues. With that being said, I believe the game is minimum an 8.7/10. However, I'm scoring it a 10/10 because it deserves to be higher than what it currently is on Metacritic. All the 0/10 reviews simply complain about the lack of ultrawide support or performance and don't even talk about the game itself. From my personal experience, I had minimal stuttering and it had zero effect on my enjoyment of the game itself. Honestly, the stuttering happens rarely during a typical sessions for me (1-2 hours). When it does happen, I hardly notice it and it's gone in a few seconds. I understand why negative reviewers are frustrated, but most are being lazy and cannot control their emotions. The game is very much playable; it is innovative; and it is a world worth exploring.
Elden Ring its a Souls game, it won't take your hand and takes you where you should go or when you should face a boss, the very first boss (Tree Sentinel), teach you that you don't need to face everything on your way right away , you can go back once you feel that you can take that fight, Margit teaches you to learn and be patient with an enemy and the whole story progresses trought items description. While this may not be everyones favorite way of play a game, allows the player to have so much freedom thats amazes me. I've seen some reviews saying that this game graphics are bad or dated and to be honest I don't feel that way, they definitely aren't they best graphics in the market but they don't compromised the enjoyment of the game, some scenarios are unbelievable beautiful, going down the elevator to Siofra River its one of the most amazing places that I've seen in a game. I've also seen some reviews saying that the world is dead and that's completely false, there's a lot of things happening in the game, each area has its own unique enemies fittng perfectly with the environment. I can say that this game became my favorite game of all time, the whole gameplay feels amazing, some weapon arts are very impressive and this time you are rewarded for using them they arent just to show off.
Looks good and has fun combat. I’ve lagged a couple times, but they were very small things.
another overhyped trash. 10/10 is such an insult every review channel should be ashamed of itself. it might be a very good souls-like. but even that is a streatch. camera is still your worst enemy, the menu is atrocious, pc keybinding is half implemented. two bosses is lazy boss design, etc. AND THAT FOR A SOULS-LIKE! the moment you start to compare that to what everybody expects from every other studio this game is garbage. the flow of the game is fragmented all over the map. most of the time without even telling you. The story as well, highly missable, highly optional. the difficulty is definitely a matter of taste but the difficulty spikes is just like the game itself: an absolute stumble fest. people enjoy the game, because the open world is EASY and gives the illusion of approachability, but for every new weirdly designed boss or miniboss encounter that euphoria drops into the pit of realization that this game just started throwing **** together and people eat it due to the established git gud syndrome. Valhallas open world was garbage, this one's is better. is is still good just bc it's a souls-like with open world. THE F NO!
Absolute masterclass work from FromSoft. It's basically everything an open-world Dark Souls would be. Beautiful landscapes and scenery, lot of rewarding exploration and amazing combat. For the fans of the Souls-series this is a no-brainer, for newcomers it's the best place to start with. You will die a lot in this game, but have patience and learn from your deaths. Once it clicks, you'll love the feeling of killing a hard boss.
I love it, the technical issues are things that I can overlook, they weren’t really that bad for me. Absolutely loved exploring the world of this game and I am kinda sad that I’ve finished it, obviously I’m going to get the other endings but I really needed this game. The gameplay, even if it has some reused assets, is really good. The world is spectacular, it feels like it was built piece by piece because it is so strange and always look amazing. I adored exploring every road I found cause it always had something to do or someone different to kill. I really don’t have an explaination on why people are saying that the world is empty other than maybe they haven’t explored at all. I totally get that it isn’t clear as sky where you should go at certain levels because in the first area you can find enemies way stronger than you, but at the same time, if I couldn’t defeat someone, I can always change path cause I’m sure to find something to get stronger somewhere. For me it’s must and it made me really happy playing this amazing world
Its an incredible game with a ton of QoL improvements over both open world and Souls likes. The majority of negative reviews are people who couldn't get past Margit and are salty
A breath-taking game with immersive graphics, an intriguing storyline, and thrilling combat. This game is for those who want a challenge. In terms of performance, there are no issues with performance. I have a mediocre PC and can play on maximum settings with no framerate issues. I did have some when it launched, but it has since been patched. Do not listen to negative reviews who's only gripe is performance, since those no longer apply.
It will continue to be a zero until they fix the PC port. No Ultrawide in 2022 is unforgivable. Horrible stutters, 60fps cap, bans for trying modding to get basic pc features.
If you ever want evidence the gaming industry is corrupt this is it !!! Released on the PC with immediately good critic reviews and positive reviews on Steam (negative reviews removed / down voted quickly). This is a awful port - hell you cant even get out of the redefine keys menu on the PC, FPS is dire and the whole experience downright appalling. These software brand and false critic reviews should be punished and the only way currently is to never buy from that brand again to break this cycle of corruption.
Before i start, i want to say that every experience is subjective. So for you to have a little bit of context about my experience of the game : - I've already played and finished dark souls (I,II,III) and sekiro and i really liked those games. - I play video games regulary but i'm not that good, i can struggle and i'm not a "sweat" type player - I did not experienced any performance issues while playing elden ring for some reason, even with my laptop (gtx1070, 16 gb of ram) - Even if give the game 10/10, i don't think EVERYONE, should play it, every games are differents and offers differents type of experience and therefore, every game is not meant for everybody. BUT Elden ring is for me a : masterpiece. As an artist who works in the videogame industry, i find the art direction unmatched, the graphical quality of the game is not meant to reproduce the reality with gorgeous texture but i look FANTASTIC nevertheless. As you progress to the world you are in constant ah of what the game as to offer in his character design, places, music everything come together to immerse the player in the dangerous world of the land between. The game in itself is extremely dense there are cave, ruin, fort, castle in every corner, and it feels really rewarding to be curious, because of the variety of enemies and unique loot to find in those caves. Even with an open world dense like that, the main level that you have to go through for the story have the same quality of the game before them, but with a lot more verticality you Can go 3 time in the same castle and find 3 differents way to explore it. In term of gameplay, for a "souls veterant" like me, i feel like this game offers the most ways to build your character in any ways you want, you can customize weapons by swapping theyre special attacks, and use whatever tool you want to tackle the game difficulty : you want to be a tanky mage ? A fast bowman ? A heavy knight with dragons power ? You can do it and mix everything while still maintining it viable and enjoyable. Now let's talk about the elephant in the room : The difficulty. If you're new to the serie i think this is the best place to start, elden ring is still challenging in the classical souls way, but there is a loot of tools to give the player a little rest in combat (like summoning npc to fight with you on command) and a lot of ranged weapons and ways to fight. Additionaly, elden ring being an open world you can explore the world to seamlessly lvl up before trying to tackle a boss. This give the player room to breath in between bosses. I will add that from software games are suffering from their reputation of being difficult. It's not an easy game, and it requires a little bit of getting used to. But after some time if you're willing to learn how the games works, you can finish the game without that much of problems. And i really encourage people to do it because it's really rewarding. For me who was tired of most recent video games, Elden ring give the fresh experiencz i needed to "fall in love in a game" once again. The last time i felt like this playing was in zelda breath of the wild, it feels like i'm entering a new world, with everything to learn and it's a lot lot lot of fun. And uf you're worry about the lenght of the game, be not. It's really really big and it has a lot of quests outside of the main one, it take probalbly 80 to 100 hours to finish the first playthrough, without taking all the npc quests. So yeah 10/10 because Elden ring is exactly what itns aspiring to be, it's different from everything i've played, it's beautyfull it sounds good, the voice acting is perfect, i'm never bored while exploring the open world, it's not frustrating to fight boss, and it has a lot of replayability with all the builds and differents branch of quests(And yes it's different from dark souls, it's not just BIG DARK SOULS 4) Don't hesitate give it a go.
A really fun and challenging game with a beautiful open world and awesome enemies. apart from the stuttering that appears from time to time this is a game i will definitely recommend, especially if you a souls fan
one of the best games I've played so far (as a Dark Souls fan obviously) the world, if you take your time to explore it, is filled with lots of love, dungeons and bosses everywhere, the game performance was once I started the game a bit frustrating, but once I started the game on the other day, all my issues were gone. Absolutely in love 10/10
I cannot remember when a Game made me pull a "16 Hour Gaming Session" in a go. Absolutly stunning World Design with plenty of Secrets to discover. I could say so much about the Game but instead i'll give you a tl;dr: Do you remember when Skyrim came out? That whole feeling of Adventure at any corner? What may be behind that Mountain or see a Ruin in the distance and wonder what would be there? That is Elden Ring. It's the Skyrim of Souls Games. Whatever you see in the distance, you can go there. No invisible walls. Total Freedom. Added to that is the classical Souls Combat with plenty of new mechanics and insane weapons and spells. To adress Graphics: If a 4-5 Frames dropped in a wink is a 0/10 Rating for you, you never played a Fromsoftware Game.
The game is pretty good, i enjoyed it, but the recent patches make the whole thing an even bigger technical mess then it was. I get crashes and stutters more often after 1.02.3 to the point of literally breaking my saves, good that i make a backup after every session, now i do it more often. But the whole port is just the epitome of bad, no ultrawide, 60fps cap, they didn't even include a button prompts for PS controllers that are already in the game, where STEAM fully detect it. They try to fix it, but game quality slowly deteriorates with each patch, i just can't give this game a good note, the PC port is broken for me.
The game graphics are amazing and its a game you'll never get bored off new monsters every corner all different a new challenge
Unplayable, hideous graphics, hideous gameplay, hideous storyline, no plot, hideous enemies, hideous map, artistically disgusting, hideous frame rate, with this commodore 64 graphics it runs terribly. In short, all horrendous, money thrown in the bin. If I could rate this sub-species of theft I would rate -10
This game is almost perfect. The open world is maybe the best open world and the combat and enemy designs are great. My only issue is the common stuttering I've had.
I do not think this game is a masterpiece and it is not running well on PC. The world art design, diversity in playstyles makes this a solid game and with the help of Wemod it can be enjoyed by those who play games to relax. I do not find the story telling technique appealing anymore and I think the RR Martin was used for publicity only. The biggest disappointment for me is the outdated gameplay mechanics. Sekiro had much more interesting gameplay, but in this game From Software just reused DS3 mechanics and implemented very little from Sekiro innovations. There is still no animation cancel and reactive parry mechanic, forcing you memorize the enemy attack timing, which is highly variable. Rolling also looks ridiculous and could have been replace with a cool dash. It is very annoying to check the map all the time to know where you are, I do not think this is an innovative way to make an open world game, it is just another lazy way to do it. I also think this game had an unfair marketing strategy, there should be a warning about the difficulty in the marketing materials ("DO NOT BUY if you are not a skilful gamer, you are not welcome in the Lands Between, and you are wasting your money"). I platinumed Bloodborne and DS3 on PS4 and I was left with a bad feeling of what these games forced me to do because they charmed me with the world design and gameplay (at that time it felt more interesting, but not after you played for 800+ hours).
Seems like it would be fun, but the performance is such garbage on a Ryzen 7 5800x, RTX 3080, 32 Gb ram, nvme.2 etc etc, FPS drops 20 to 30 at times, locked at 60, no fov control, menu is clunky… list goes on and on, fix the game and I’ll bump the review.
How did this game score so highly...... Being just a rehash of the past FromSoft games, but with abysmal optimization and an even worse lack of innovation. This game being able to score a 97 just proves that you do not have to be actively trying to move the genre forward or introduce new concepts. As long as you regurgitate the same thing again and again, with little to no change whatsoever, it doesn't matter as long as you have a rabid fanbase who treat every rehash as the greatest thing ever made. If it was another AAA franchise with this kind of game launch, just imagine the backlash. But I don't blame Miyazaki and Fromsoft, if the mass media and consumers had called them out on their crap since DS3, then maybe they would have explored new territory since then. They would have added something revolutionary, included impressive game mechanics... It just amazes me how this thing is hailed as innovative. With the same game design since DS2, graphics from 2009, tedious and outdated gameplay mechanics, terrible animation quality, and a lack of improvement of enemy AI (the AI is even PS2 level AI since they do not act without you being in the area, and keep attacking areas you have already dodged). God, RDR2 was actually innovative. It was revolutionary landmark in open world design and storytelling, and it just got completely snubbed at major game awards and gets crapped on till today for trivial reasons. If this thing can get 97, RDR2 shld get a 101, minimum. No open world game developer should take any notes of game design from this game. It is already weak as it is. If there is anything else for me to say, it is that any consumer or review outlet giving this game anything more than a 6 should not be allowed to judge a game's quality and degree of innovation. The only thing redeeming quality about the game are aspects of the art design. I really wish this game was 97 great.... I really wish. 3/10
Bought and refunded the game twice. It won't even finish downloading. I'd only be so lucky if I could load it up and see the framerate issues and stuttering everyone else is complaining about. GOTY is a laugh, it doesn't even work!! I've played hundreds of games on Steam with no issue, except this hunk of junk.
Average at best. The game reuses assets and mobs from all of the souls game and copy pastes them all over the world. Animations are janky like in DS1. Open World is pretty but its filled with the same mobs over and over. Everywhere you go you find some flaws. From Software failed to deliver same quality with increased quantity.
If a Fromsoft game ever needed 'Patches' (sorry) it's this one! I Would be rated higher but due to the serious technical issues on all systems it has to be a red **** now. Let me explain. Im a huge fromsoft fan and trust only them for day 1 preorders. I've platinumed all their games. Buy It really worries me that blupoint demon souls remaster can launch at 4k 60fps or near to it but elden ring can barely hit 30fps and often dips as low as 15 in sadly the areas where you need consistent performance. On pc it runs better with improved graphics but all I get is decade old graphical and gameplay issues on pc even with a 3080. There is a whiff of cyberpunk about the game where fans are blindly supporting and conveniently ignoring the serious technical issues which also include a few progression stopping glitches / bugs and the occasional game breaking issue. And post launch the patches are not addressing these issues. It still looks and runs like a...decade old and at times elden ring just looks ugly. Great art design but everything else is far from the beauty of sekiro or the grandeur of bloodborne. The open world simply fails in 2022. If it was 2010 then I'm sure it be far more impressive as it has 2010 graphics. It's not remotely as good as botw or rdr2 which are games that existed before ER development even started. The latter alone is worrying but the large empty space which witcher 3 dlc would laugh at...isnt much fun to play. Yes You can explore but you'll only find Skyrim like identical copy and paste areas. Forget the wildlife of most open world games or npcs with compelling stories. The George Martin element is inexplicably non existent making the game effectively a dark souls 4. The latter isn't a bad thing but it's not as good as ds3 in visuals / performance or gameplay so where does this leave us? Without widescreen or controller support at times that's where ! The game isn't suitable for noobs or non fromsoft fans. It's a game seemingly more for fan boys, prepaid journalists and shills to scream "goty!" while they wait for gameplay saving 'Patches' (sorry ;). It's not a bad game by any means but it has bad aspects to it or lazy maybe. Bloodborne launched in a rough state so this is nothing new but it's still not acceptable. Wait for a sale a year from now when it's been fully patched. Eventually maybe 7-8 /10 but a 4/10 !t launch due to poor technical state :(
Unparalleled game design, art direction, and vision. Once in a generation good.
Performance problems are the only thing I could knock this game for, but I held a smooth 60 for ~99% of my playtime with hitches in area transitions. Some folks have had a much worse experience than me on this front. Otherwise, beautiful open world, some of the best bosses I've found in the series, excellent build variety, soundtrack is another masterclass by Yuka Kitamura, game oozes lore and atmosphere, and has the tightest combat second to Sekiro in a modern From game. As an aside, you are not as slick as you think having 2 reviews on your account (HFW 10, ER 0 on all platforms) lol. Horizon games are great, go enjoy them instead of being weirdly insecure on metacritic dot com
No performance issues for me on pc. I simply didn't like it. Controlling the character feels like driving a semi, controls are sluggish in a fight, character doesn't move when i want it to. Nope not for me
- This game is grossly overrated - It's Dark Souls 3 reskined and changed copy Souls to Runes - It feels a easier than the previous series - The world feels empty and shallow + It's a Dark Souls game, it's fun.
Elden Ring is a poorly optimized and poorly exexuted attempt at a Soul-Borne game. Frequent stutters and screen tearing have plagued my experience. The music is short and repeatative, bringing back nighmares of the battle theme from the werehog sections of Sonic Unleashed. The graphics are detailed but it seems as if FromSoftware designed them to be displayed through a grayscale printer.
The game itself its pretty amazing, but unfortunally i can't play because its unplayable for me with 25-30 FPS and Stutterings A had to keep trying a lot of boss fights like dragon blood warrior (lightining) or the swanp wyverns (both fire and magic), or ancient dragon with 20-25 FPS Its too much annoying. Why release a unfinished game? why wont wait some months and release a stable version. Im with a 2070 and a ryzen 5 5800x, and in all game qualitys low/medium/high/maximum with any resolution 1080p/1440p i get this 30 FPS. Isnt only that enought: - Game has a CAP on 60 FPS - Do not support ultra-wide monitors - Constant Stutterings - Poor pvp online in comparated with DS series - Constant Crashes - Constant Frame Drops - Invisible enemys (Not renderized). - Do not recognize your Dedicated GPU - Bricks PCs on quiting. - Horses do not appears sometimes when called. - EAC (Easy anti-cheat) do not let the game starts. - Freezings. Im with 70 hours of game and the unic thing that i dont like to much about the game itself is the new PVP mechanichs (invading mechanichs). And the game do not innovate im almost nothing but still a good game with doesnt have this HORRORIBLE PERFORMANCE issues i will probably review with an 8.0 or 9.0. Fix your game From Software
Really bad game on PC, it's impossible to play that port, terrible performance and lack of ultrawide support, features like dlss, fsr, reflex, 60+fps etc.
I loved Dark Souls and this game is really similar but with an open world to explore. There are a lot of dungeons and open world bosses to conquer. Yes there is no ultrawide support (I have one) and there is a 60fps cap but it really does not bother me. Also it is a port from cobsole just like ds3 was. The performance issues I had all got fixed 2 days after release. It is a definite 10/10 for me and probably my new favorite game.
I usually refrain from writing reviews, but upon witnessing an absurd amount of straight 1's and 0's here I felt obligated to. Many of these reviews make it fairly clear who's played more than say, 30 minutes or so. Elden Ring is many things, "just another souls-like" is far from one of them. The game bases its combat on the same fundamental system the developers have been fine tuning for years. No, it does not make any overly significant changes to the underlying formula of its combat. Why would it? Don't fix what isn't broken, rather improve upon it. And to that end, they have. They have yet again found ways to incorporate lessons and experiments from other games they've made into an experience not unfamiliar and yet more expansive than previous. For instance, more refined use of stealth as an approach to scenarios, or the new ash of war system replacing weapon arts, allowing for far greater options in what weapons you use and how. Also, in case you somehow missed it, you have a horse, which you can use in fights, including some boss encounters, should you so choose. You have personal, AI summons you can find throughout the world to aid you in combat, many with their own unique strengths and abilities. That is just the combat, which as I mentioned, I wouldn't describe as some fundamentally different system, just an evolution of one that already worked quite well. More pertinent to discussions of this game is what it DOES do very differently. The open world approach is not so unlike many other open worlds, but a major change of pace for a souls like. It adds a degree of freedom not seen in prior installments, with it being possible to spend countless hours exploring the vast open world without hardly fighting any major bosses. That freedom allows one to play the game at their own pace. If you want to try to rush straight through, many encounters will prove more challenging, but those skilled enough can certainly do so. If you want to explore all the game has to offer, you can. The open world is far from lacking in things to do, and exploring is a rewarding experience often providing the player with more powerful tools with which to face the ever greater challenges of the main journey. The bosses themselves actually feel fairly unique to previous games, and those that are feel like they have improved greatly. The world itself has very engrossing environments, ranging from scenic to downright revolting, never failing to set the tone of an area. Areas are designed to be complex environments which can be approached in a variety of directions. The game never forces you to do anything you don't want to, as demonstrated from the very first boss you encounter, which you can walk right around and come back to when you are better prepared. All that said, the game is not without its failings. Performance issues are notable, but not so unbearable as many reviews make it sound. The minimum spec is a 1060. I have a 1050ti and have found that while my enjoyment has been hindered somewhat by lag or lower graphical fidelity, the game remains incredibly fun and runs well enough even for someone with weaker than supposedly required to even run the game. The approach to weapon upgrades can feel somewhat annoying as with previous titles, where you may find yourself wanting to use cool new weapons you find along the way but have already invested the materials you found into something else. The "dungeons" scattered throughout alleviate this issue somewhat, providing consistent repeatable methods of obtaining these materials, but lets face it, nobody like having to go through something multiple times just for materials. It's a small time sink, but a time sink nonetheless and I'm not a grind gamer. The game itself isn't a graphical powerhouse (having seen it on a friend's pc, with a 3090) but the design of enemies, weapons, and environments are done well enough to be good looking regardless. The game itself is VERY long, something I both enjoy and have some disdain for, solely because the game has so much to offer I can't touch just yet because my build doesn't permit it. Overall, the game is incredibly FUN. It doesn't look the best. It doesn't run the best. But it's one of the most purely fun titles to release in years. It has no shortage of content, with my first run through approaching 50 hours and being nowhere close to done. I have enjoyed every second of it, and If you're willing to look past some superficial flaws and give it an honest try, I'm sure you will too. Don't be intimated by difficulty. The game offers ample ways to grow in strength for encounters and has a healthy playerbase more than willing to help you overcome challenges. I'd rate it an 8.5 if I could, a 9 seems to overlook more of the flaws than I would like but an 8 feels as though it undersells just how enjoyable the journey really is. A great game to start with for potential new players to the series due to its open nature, more than worth its price tag.
This game is great. The dark souls formula intertwined with a open-world dynamic is the best gaming experience I have ever had. I am not sure how people are having major FPS and stuttering issues. I am playing on a GTX 1070 and an Intel i5-6600K CPU @ 3.50GHz (I'd OC, but I'm to lazy to take out CMOS and fix BIOS issue), and I disables motion blur (who doesn't), and lowered some visual settings like water, grass, and particles. Blows my mind people have issues on better hardware than I have. If this is your first FromSoftware game, I will say its hard to recommend. There games are not like any other game. Think about it, I'd recommend a friend, who never play a FromSoftware game, to try Dark Souls 3 first. That's my favorite FS game and I feel like Elden Scrolls being open world might affect the experience and understanding of what makes FS games amazing. I guess it is really doesn't matter though, b/c anyone playing Elden Rings will have their own individual experience.
Really good game, but poorly optimized. It's like a "dark souls IV Open World edition"
would have been 10/10 if it was optimized(PC) , but I've already seen improvements so I might change it to 10/10. I'm a big fan of dark souls games, played since 1 game out, even though I didn't know how I felt about the open world change before, after I've tried it I really like the change and I think it brings a lot more of depth and playability. now that I'm 80 hours in, I think I can say that this really is a masterpiece.
Literally the best game I’ve ever played, the lore, discovery, and sense of awe and adventure are things i dreamed about as a kid playing a link to the past and ocarina of time. Adult me hasn’t felt childlike awe at a game in a very long time, nothing compares and fromsoft over delivered on their promise. The game suffers from frame drops and stuttering at certain locations, but as I’ve progressed further in those frame issues have ceased. That is my only issue full stop. Elden Ring is a once in a lifetime masterpiece.
The game itself is so beautiful even now I remember stepping out of the tutorial cave and seeing the world for the first time. The first and probably only time I will gasp at art. Game is just as fun and addicting as previous. Though I only played ds3 this game tops that hand or fist.
Best open world game made up to this day. Awfully optimized yet FROM blames user's hardware for it.
Yeah, technical problems and bla bla bla. The game is AMAZING and probably is the best game of the generation.
Its alright I guess but definently not a 10/10, The main problem with this game is not dificulty (for me) but the absolute garbage game level design you have multiple areas where you are just underleveld and have to 'grind' souls in the open world to advance. Im not even sure what the main intended path is for the game it just seems all over the place. Also be prepared to use the wiki/youtube guides a LOT Forgot a name the npc told you bring an item to? search the wiki. Want to find upgrade material? search the wiki. Want to fight 'hidden bosses'? search the wiki. For almost everything you do in this game you need a wiki or guide, A lot of places are not clear where to go and you get lost often (even with a map) The way to upgrade your weapons is complete garbage, You can only really lvl up 1 weapon to max or be prepared to find all the upgrade materials all over again. Open world? Yes I guess its nice but most of the games bests moments are not in the open world but rather in the closed dungeon/area sections. Boss design is alright in this game a lot of realy unfair fights and you also dont know if you just have to git gud or if you are underleveled. Story is just a **** show, you never know what the f is going on and the ending was just confusing not really satisfying for playing a game like 60+ hours Pc port is a f*cking joke and performance **** on pc also the game looks nice I guess but not cyberpunk level of grahpics and yet it needs a beter specs. All in all I liked elden but to give this a 10/10 just goes to show how paid off these 'reviewers' are/ I dont really feel like a second playthrought because the game level design is so garbage I dont want to have to use the wiki for everything again. 5/10
it's a bad port buggy, mediocre trash details here if you care: ****/mithaldu/status/1496989167389003776
With currently 33hrs on record I feel that the only thing I can say I am missing at this time is finishing the game that still feels a ways away. Overall it is understandable to me for the launch to have had a few optimization issues but as those are being resolved I would find it ill to hold issues that are minor for most users against the game's score. This is an amazing game that is worth your time if you are willing to put in the time required to learn the game system. New or old players can both rejoice and learn the big two lessons that Elden Ring has taught better than ever before within the first few minutes or hours depending on how quick you get to the first real boss or fight the first mini boss. 1- You can always return to something later with better gear and stats to make it more forgiving. 2- Eventually ramming your head against the wall will break it as long as you remember to learn from each mistake that lead to your death. The open world never feels empty with even some of the more dead end areas at minimum having crafting materials. Dungeons and bosses continue the classic formula and then go beyond showing more innovation than before, with varied environments and challenges as well as move sets and style. I will close on mentioning that the way some bosses move in the game are leagues ahead of where the games have been previously. It feels more than ever like the bosses have a reaction to what you as a player are doing rather than simply your distance away from them mixed with a die roll. See the first main boss where you will be forced to learn the game, similar in its lessons to another boss in the other Fromsoft game Sekiro that could be classified as a point where many players "clicked" as to how the game worked. In the end, I do suggest the game. But I say that anyone buying it should understand that it will require a bit of patience. You will not walk in here and dominate the game without first learning how the game works. And even then, sometimes you just miss a dodge roll haha. Praise the Sun.
This is one of the best games of all time. Masterpiece. Thank you From Software.
Wow what a amaizing game perfect i can say i have start these jorney and i am loving it so much love the dificulty that the game has like all the old games and i am always a big fan of fromsoftwere always delivering these is the game of the year
GooD GAME. THAT FEELS LIKE I AM REALLY IN A FANTASY WORLD. Didn't feel bad about the performance. Maybe it has some issues as it is new and hopes they will fix them. The feeling of this open world is great. Explore like an adventruerer.
This is absolutule my favorite game of all time. I have heard of people having problems with performance on PC but I never did with a pretty average setup. Some reviews are very understandable such as people not being able to play while some are just plain awful. People keep calling for difficulty options, don't play a From Software game if you want an easy game, Im sorry but that's all there is to it. People coming here to brigade because Horizon FW got worse reviews need to touch grass. Im truly sorry for the people who can't play because of their PC not being able to handle the game because it's truly amazing and anyone who has the time to play this game should try it if they feel they have the patience of dying a lot. If this is your first From Software game it will knock you down many times, either you love it or you hate it, I definitely love it though. Ps for the people saying the game has no story, there are conclusions and reveals if you actually finish the game dummy.
Very good and fun game, amazing 10/10, really fun. Level 30 already te he he he he he
The best game I've played in a long time. Probably best souls game. It had a bit of a rocky pc launch, but now everything is slowly being fixed.
Ignore the haters. Down with online cancel culture! This game is a masterpiece
Just a fantastic game! I fixed a few things on my nvidia shader settings and voila no lags. Could be better but I don't judge technical stand for metacritics. Best Souls Game so far (ye ye I know Elden Ring but for me its Dark Souls 4) + Open World, gigantic open world Love it Died almost every 2min but its so cool! I'm lvl 57 and 40h + in, so I will have more fun with this game
best game of all times so far, a genuine and mature product based on all the fromsoftware's games
Runs terribly, bad gameplay. Would refund if I could. I don’t recommend this game to anyone looking for a pleasant experience.
Stuttery fps locked crap. Souls players will be creaming in their pants for a souls game with a different skin whacked on top. Same old boring gameplay crappy mechanics as every other souls game. Dodge roll slash repeat. Avoid at all costs unless you’re a souls creampie loser.
As expected FromSoftware delivered yet another amazing game! The sceneries, details to the surroundings and color usage is absolutely breathtaking, especially on a 4k screen. Gameplay is a little different than previous Souls-games but challenging nontheless. It's simply an amazing game, and I recommend all souls-fans to play it!
Amazing game very rich full of surprises, content and amazing art design. Very sad it got review bombed by the haters
Massive Souls fan but am tired of playing second fiddle to the consoles. Performance is atrocious, the constant FPS drops, limited 60FPS and most importantly no UIltrawide Monitor support. FROM SOFTWARE its 2022, ultrawide gaming has been around for over 15+ years and it's ridiculously easy to fix. Will not adjust review until fixed.
Great Game. 10/10 if PC performance issues are fixed. Ignore the salty 0 score reviews by people who haven't even played the game. Rest are the ones who bought the game riding the hype, never having played a souls game before and are now asking for map markers and quest logs. Also the ones complaining about reused animations from DS3- a simple calculation of weapon animations destroys this argument- hell atleast I don't have Aloy talk about how this branch is useful for the 5000th time.
It’s funny to see people who clearly haven’t played anything more challenging than mainstream bait titles zelda botw, ghost of tsushima, assassin’s creed and whatnot, complain about a game that has a 10+ year long history of having the same solid mechanics set in stone. They don’t realize that the difficulty of these games comes from THEM being a **** player because they were seasoned with the titles stated above, titles that reward you for being a **** player. They are not used to challenges. They want quest markers, dungeon markers, npc markers on the map. They want a difficulty setting. They don’t get what “roleplaying” means in these games. You’re not playing as some killing machine that can crush every single enemy as if they were tin cans, you’re playing as a person who seeks to be that strong one day, and you DO become that strong come late game. I hate that this game became a mountain of hype. Sorry but, the souls series doesn’t deserve this treatment. I don’t know why they decided to open it up to the general, more stupid audience. If this game had the same fanbase DS3 had at its release, I guarantee you it would’ve had a fan review score of 98-99. This game is literally the closest game we’ve had to perfect in its respective genre. Sorry for the long comment, I just felt like they didn’t do justice to this masterpiece of a video game franchise.
I don't even meet minimum requirements and the game runs amazing. It's packed with content and it's all good. It's incredible how big the legacy dungeons are, Stormveil Castle, the first one, took me an entire day to clear out 100%. NPC Questlines are very easy in a good way, as they're hard to find, but you don't fail them as easy as in other games. Hell, I don't even think I failed a quest yet and I literally beat the final boss. It's as close as a perfect game as it can get. it does have some flaws here and there, but it's compensated by the quality of everything else. Only thing I dislike is the last 5h of the game only because they're exhausting. It's like the final boss of Sekiro but for 5 hours straight with some breaks, yet not enough. Don't get me wrong, it's really cool, but it dragged for too long, and it's not like you would go farm somewhere then come back stronger at the literal end of the game, natural instinct is to keep pushing, it's the final afterall.
I've seen some encouraging gameplays, and since I like this type of game, I decided to spend a lot of money. And when I saw the black bars on the sides of my ultrawide monitor, I realized I had been ripped off.
YES upon release this game was certainly not perfect, frame rate drops with certain areas were an issue and there is still a glitch we’re the game crashes when trying to change into certain helmets. BUT other than that, everything else in the game is AMAZING. The world is full of so many things to do, and this game has some amazing boss designs. Elden Ring is without a doubt one of the best games I have ever played in my 15 years of gaming. So yeah if you are not on the greatest system I would recommend holding off for awhile to play the game until they patch up some of the frame rate issues. Other than that all of the zeros are from neck beards who just want to hate on something because it’s popular.
I spent more than 90 hours in 7 days with this game Aside from the graphics optimization issues, overall Elden Ring is a great game. They have improved on most of the shortcomings of the DS3 gameplay - mixing and adding new mechanics from Combat, movement, skills... in a balanced way. It must be said that the combat mechanism becomes much more comfortable than the DS3. And there are many ways to defend, dodge... and more fighting styles for you to choose and mix. Keep the old ones and add new ones. Make it so much more complete. Everything inside seems more comfortable. But the design of Boss and enemies of Elden Ring is more ferocious, more agile, more explosive combos. It doesn't make it any less challenging. you can hardly use the same way with all the Bosses in Elden Ring. Fast, Strong, Defense, Massive, Swarm,... you'll have to figure out how to deal with each of them, dodging every hit, keeping your composure and making your way through the barrage of attacks. Just make one mistake and you will get the consequences. Dungeons are everywhere, they always give you great loot. But the dungeon boss was slowly rising. But the traps and puzzles will take you hours to get through. And you will die a lot. Story: A great story to discover, it's hidden behind everything. stories in Item, in ruins, in chance encounters with interesting NPCs. You will love some of them, some will make you laugh and some make you sad. Multiple endings depending on the progress and NPC you went through in their quest. You will find that your decisions have a certain effect on the world in Elden Ring. Both good and bad. A main story with many branches and leaves. You won't feel complete if you just run away and beat the last boss. Because the secrets you come across along the way will also contribute to your perspective on the overall story. And don't skip any conversations. talk to the NPCs until the end of the dialogue and there are things that surprise you. Art: The Elden Ring's overall art may not be something everyone likes. If you like rainbows and dynamic, cheerful, modern colors. Then perhaps Elden Ring is quite outdated for you. Elden Ring has an ancient, mysterious art style and a great overall tone. you won't feel it's lame. It is in harmony. They have balanced aesthetics into a large world. Makes you feel like a part of it. The landscape is filled with a multitude of things, the ecology changes from region to region, the weather and light pervades everywhere. Dark caves and majestic castles were everywhere, beneath the shining Erdtree's shadow. It is hard to find this feeling in other open world games.
Stutters with stupid stunt lock combos that they put in for every single enemy this is not a game that really thinks of what kind of enemies should have what kind of attack it seems like fromsoft just put in a bunch of those combos to make sure the game is harder
Elden ring has a massive and content dense world to spend nearly hundred hours per play through in. The release version was buggy and prone to crashing, but I'm scoring Elden Ring beyond these fixable issues, since it will be the game of the decade.
'ELDEN RING' should be awarded '2022 GAME OF THE YEAR Most awarded game'. Action and combat are the best. The grandeur and detail of the map It's as good as The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild and The Elder Scrolls V Skyrim. And the elements of the adventure and the way the dungeons are explored are good enough to remind me of The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild.
Worst PC port **** I've ever played - an absolute abomindation to any true pc player. If you require a controller to be able to play a PC game you should never release the game on PC.
An absolute masterpiece in my opinion, Game does have some heavy frame rate issues and a few crashes for me personally, The online has some disconnection issues as well but my overall experience with how good it is and how expansive and wonderful the world is to explore those issues that I know will be fixed don't bother me, I'm 50 hours into the game writing this and I have no doubt it will become game of the year and it's well deserved. It's sad to see the game being review bombed and given 0's over the issues it has or things like "bad graphics" the game is incredibly beautiful in my opinion. It's no horizon forbidden west which is fine, the environment and style do a lot for me fromsoft are in a master craft of world building and art style. I have a hard time due to disabilities staying with games I feel I'm not good at and I give up quite easily but for some reason I haven't even had to take a break from the game. I've gotten angry yes but something in me kept wanting to persevere and complete the task I was stuck on and doing so gave me a feeling I can't quite describe. It's honestly been great overall for my mental health which probably sounds crazy but finding out I can actually keep going and accomplish something that' seems incredibly difficult is amazing for me. The massive amount of hate I've seen recently for the smallest of reasons is saddening but it doesn't change how great the game is. The game is also incredibly accessible to newer players or people who had a hard time with previous games. Yes it's still very difficult at times but you have the opportunity to explore the entire world and gear yourself and power yourself up for encounters you feel you cant handle yet and it highly rewards you for exploring. If you're too afraid to try the game because you've hard how difficult it is, give it a try anyway I think you'll find a fantastic game.
Worst optimized game I have ever seen my life and **** graphics.Literally unplayable
Amazing. Some stuttering framerates, but minor. Hopefully will be fixed soon.
So my character says only 21 hours. Though, my hours should be around 27. This is because of saving not working. Well more so, save corrupting. I am a constant saver in video games, even if I don't go back all the time I'll make hundreds of save files. So I see a new zone in Elden Ring I walk into it so it saves, I see a grace I activate it to save(or rest), I talk to a vendor to save, etc. So, it annoys me that I lost 6 hours worth of my progress. Not to mention all the other glitches you have to deal with constantly. Now to go on: one glitch rn is that most entities are just invisible. The only ones I've noticed not to turn invisible are the enemies that are so large that they have multiple lock on points and bosses, everything else is free range to turn invisible. Ohh you are on the road? Well I guess 4 knights are attacking you now. You wanted talk to a trader? Better remember where they sit. Plus, it does not help when you get the glitch where your light attack does not want to work. At first I thought I broke my new controller that I just bought a month before Elden RIng came out, but then I tried to light attack with my mouse and it would not work. Heavy attack would work fine but light attack just was not having it. Does not help to drop down to 2 frames every 5 seconds at some points or areas so you can not advance to certain points. Plus, the game just freezes for 5 to 15 seconds at a time like have a chill have some water. Which is weird that these things are happening as I am running on low graphics for everything, except grass which the lowest is medium and I put render distance to medium cause it actually ran better. Though, my pc is not the best I have put around $1000 USD worth of parts into it, but still it should not be like this. This is not to big of a problem, but in areas with poison sludge when you are well out of the sludge and did not get the poison effect sometimes the effect will still build up so you will end up getting poisoned. if you're leaving an area, or just running through it quickly I can see it messing you up though. This is all I can think of currently, but I know I am sure to encounter more things. I will not be playing this game anymore though till FromSoftware and Bandi Namco can fix the game.
One of the best games ever made. People who are giving bad reviews because they **** are hilarious. HATE THE PLAYER NOT THE GAME.
This game is one of the best open world experiences. Don't let review bombers sway your opinion because they can't handle something popular being good that they don't like. Yes, it's hars, but it's made that way so you naturally improve and eventually celebrate when you overcome the obstacle.
Bad performance on PC right now and mouse and keyboard and mouse controls are not ideal. As for gameplay and graphics it is nothing special either. A rehash of previous games, particularly in boss fights, without much that is new, especially in regards to models and animations. I do hope this lazy formula is on the way out for future from software games. Ironically it seems the remaster of From software's first Souls game, Demon's Souls is the companies benchmark to beat. I would like to see something more along the lines of the first half of Dark Souls 1 with 80+ hours of slow burn and perfect gameplay, perfect graphics, refined level design and a heroic journey. No warping, big lead up to bosses and high stakes. Fromsoftware keeps nearly making a great game but is every time an unfulfilled promise. Dark Souls was almost this but the second half was obviously rushed. Demons Souls, Dark Souls I and II are still the best games they have made and FromSoftware is still to top them. They must take the best successes of all their previous releases and make something great. To me, Elden Ring is not this. The horse platforming is a kind of fun mini game but overall the open world is tedious and doesn't feel like you are really exploring anything. When the game goes back to the original dark souls style in Stormfront castle the game feels much better and after seeing what it had to offer, to me the open world aspect with a huge influence from Breath of the Wild, of the game is a big waste of resources when they could have been designing a much more dense linear environment. Fighting is overwhelmingly tedious compared to previous games and rushing past enemies to the bosses or checkpoints is the best strategy which seems like a flaw in the design. Killing enemies does not reward enough souls to make it worthwhile. Boss fights no longer have a strategy you can learn over time so you can eventually outsmart them and fights become a war of attrition and based on luck as opposed to feeling like you are actually fighting the enemy in a meaningful way as for example they were in Sekiro. Elden Ring overall feels like it is spread too thin trying to have too much content.
easily the greatest game of all time hands down. If you rush you can make it the hardest Souls game you've ever played. If you take it a bit slower, it will be similar in difficulty to the old games. If you take it very slow and out-level content it also fits the bit more casual player, although don't think it will be easy. The open world and "questing system" are the new benchmark for the entire genre. For me it's one of the best games I've ever played.
just awful pc performance on a 3080. story seems cool, could be a good game underneath, but im not gonna play until its fixed. I don't understand how a legitimate PC game review can give games like this a 10, when its obvious it has at least a few technical flaws. I would have given it an 8 myself, but its obvious the company decided to spend quite a bit of money getting game of the year, rather than polishing their game.
I love the souls series but this is getting a low score due to the CONSTANT connection errors through steam, FIX IT! literally I almost kill a boss (most specifically Radahn) with a friend then get "connection error" every time! its a joke
Overhyped garbage ****. PS4 level graphics with horrendous performance on high end hardware. Terrible stutters and framedrops. The game itself is also pretty boring and bland. Frustrating af for no reason just so they can claim it is "difficult" and "Soul's like". Terrible gaming mechanics and lazy devs. There is no way to keep track of what the hell you are doing and what have you done. Half-baked at best. How the "critics" gave them 10/10 is beyond me. Horrible game that frustrates not only with it's half-baked gameplay but also with its terrible performance. Avoid at all costs, don't waste your time and do not support this trash with your hard-earned money.
Looking at purely from an artistic standpoint, the game is really cool. However this has to be one of the worst pc ports I have ever seen. Optimization is just non existent and it has some very noticeable pop in. Game really needs to get optimized stat.
Unbelievably overrated. Easily the worst game of the year.. quite possibly in the running for one of the worst games ever published. Terrible garish art. A nearly non existent story, there's nothing compelling or engaging about it. The only thing that makes it challenging or hard is that the controls are so clunky and terribly bad. Borrowed from another reviewer but this is spot on and 100 percent what I'm feeling right now "Some calling it innovative and next step in making open world games, something that shows other companies how to make open world games? I mean, are you guy high or something? Actually serious? Kidding me? Did you even play Red Dead Redemption 2 or are souls games literally only games you play and you have never experienced an actual open world game, so you just assume, that Elden Ring's open world is something incredible? I'm disgusted with these reviews and i'm sure other companies are as well. This is literal insult to gaming in general."
I can´t get enough of this game its perfect, i´ve always wanted a game like this. Best game ever
I have never played a From Software game before, so this will be a new player perspective. First of all, the game looks interesting and cool. That's why I decided to buy it. But going deeper and deeper into this game, it shows its flaws. So starting the game something that stood out for me was the bad performance on PC. This was horrible from the start. Using my mouse and keyboard resulted in powerpoint like fps which was unplayable. So it forced me to play with the controller which fixed the problem somehow. Then still, the game is capped at 60 fps with mediocre graphics for a game released in 2022, there's fps drops when exploring and fighting bosses. Even with a 6900xt, the fps sometimes hit as low as 15 for a couple of seconds. Then there's the fighting. The enemy locking system is confusing and does not work properly most of the time. Getting hit by a boss attack while standing multiple meters clear of impact. Getting killed through the wall. Using the mount to fight is also very buggy and inconsistent and makes the camera shoot all over the place when getting close to terrain or enemies. The biggest flaw in my opinion is the multiplayer co-op. I thought this would be like a whole play through co-op mode, instead it's just helping to kill the boss and bye my friend. This is not fun if you want to play with friends. It feels like there is no story in this game, which is making the game feel a bit empty in my opinion. I think this also makes the game more confusing to new players since I have no clue what I am supposed to do and how to progress, get items, level up and so on. The sound design is also not that good. The constant background music which stays the same the whole time you play, the buggy monster sounds and volume balance is just annoying. The world design looks like they just had a pile of assets and threw them into the game without looking where they went. It's very messy with assets going through each other and a lot of cut off edges, especially when looking at the awful water. The game doesn't even automatically change key prompts from keyboard/mouse to controller, the menus are weird layout wise and there's not that many graphics settings. Not that it matters because the game doesn't look good.
Amazing game with a polish and tried and true combat system, with the introduction of posture damage, guard counters, horse combat and a more diverse and interesting magic system, the combat has never felt better. The world carries that classic FromSoftware Charm, and there is never a dull moment, and unlike other open world games, exploring off the beaten path seems to always result in a worthy and interesting reward.
Thank you Miyazaki! You made a Masterpiece! Mesmerizing landscapes and bosses! Mechanic is awesome! I made some changes settings in windows 10 and motherboard and it's running perfectly
Truly an amazing game, will probably be GOTY. This is what games should be, players actually have to pay attention to the story, how to approach fights...there's no open world bloat with repetitive sidequests, no mindless waypoint pointing where you should go next, to yet another mindless fight. Each enemy feels unique, characters can be built exactly how you want and fight very differently, a true RPG. There's also an actual sense of accomplishment for getting past bosses unlike most games today, skills matter here, no button mashing allowed. Graphics are solid, not amazing but FS games definitely have a distinctive look and feel, almost like a painting, fits the fantasy genre very well. The gameplay is fun as hell and the story isn't completely hitting you over the head every second, you actually have to pay attention and piece things together. The only thing that keeps it from getting a 9 or even a 10 possibly are the micro stutters that still happen, they can be frustrating especially when in the middle of a fight.
Best game I've played in years, very addicting. Leaving 10 stars to negate a whiner
Great game, no lag issues with a standard rig from my end. Challenging enough but not too hard.
If you're reading this, and love dark souls. just buy it. ignore all reviews. judge for yourself. if you have never played a dark souls game. this will be your easiest entry. but if you get frustrated easily, break controllers on losses, or have very short attention span... this may not be the game for you. my review will be mostly addressing the Review Bombers complaints. MY PC SPECS for disclosure I'm running this on PC with a Ryzen 9 3900x, Gtx 1660ti and 32gb of ram and have been running it on 1080p. I personally have no issues with performance myself, though I acknowledge that other pc users have. I have 50 hrs into this game STUTTERS: The stutters that I have seen others experiencing however are not game breaking. they look slightly annoying but seem to happen only on the first load of something you haven't seen before and still only seldomly regardless. if you are enjoying the game you will barely notice them (according to a friend who is experiencing them) I removed 1 point for that on my score and no more due to the review bombers doing more then their fair share already with zero scores for little to no reasons. JUST A SOULS GAME: review bombers are complaining its just another souls game but in an open world. Yes that's exactly what it is. and its what we were always told we were getting. This was literally never a secret. From day one of its announcement we all knew that, and its exactly what the fans wanted. everyone saw the gameplay prior to purchase. don't act surprised. COMBAT: review bombers have made claims that the combat is clunky. i assure you It is not. as a matter of fact it is extremely precise. as are the hitboxes. what may make it feel clunky, is if you button mash. this game, as all prior souls games have, punishes button mashing rather then rewarding it. ANIMATION: Yes there is truth to animations being re-used or in the case of NPC's talking. downright lazy on the developers. it would be nice to see an effort made there. I don't mind re-using some old properties on some of the enemies attacks. as there is far more new enemies with all new abilities. GRAPHICS: outdated looking graphics? this is a lazy complaint. the game is quite gorgeous. could it be better. yes. is it bad. no. and it certainly isn't so awful it deserves a zero score for the entire game. OPEN WORLD: the bombers are also complaining the open world isn't rewarding or is dead space? this couldn't be further from the truth. you can't go more then a few seconds in any direction without finding a dungeon, a mini boss, a secret cave, an item or an NPC. Elden Ring is one of if not the most densly packed open worlds I've ever played. STORY: people complaining that there is no story? The merit to this is that no, once again the game doesn't hold your hand and jam the plot down your throat with cutscene after cutscene. as a matter of fact if you aren't closely listening or reading you will very likely get lost in the "plot" as they don't rehash whos related to who or what things are over and over again. but there is story. and you get more and more of it with every NPC interaction you have. and its actually relatively easy to follow if you pay attention. QUEST LOG: its true the game doesn't give you a quest log. And it can be kind of hard to know where to go at times. however the game tells you EXACTLY where to go right off the bat if you speak to the first NPC you meet once entering the open world. and once you follow that bit to conclusion an NPC at the main hub (round table) tells you exactly where and who you need to beat next with lore and story on each enemy. hell your map even marks where you are supposed to go for these with bright golden waves regardless whether you spoke to this NPC or not. DIFFICULTY: last but not least. its difficult. and there are built in ways to make it easier but no there isn't an option on the main menu. while it seems like a troll move. Hardcore players only advice to give you is to "Git Gud" But that's because its literally the only advice they can give you. There is no secret weapon or armor to make it easy. those can help but what matters is your skill. timing, rolls, parries, strategy and patience. Don't button mash, pay attention to your opponents move sets. avoid getting greedy in dealing damage. yes its hard. but in order to push forward, you learn from your mistakes and don't be afraid to get some help from some co-op if you need it. Git Gud sound a bit trolly. but its also the best advice you can be given. CONCLUSION: If you Enjoy Dark Souls games you will love this game. it's open world is beautiful. the combat is clean and precise. There are tons of ways to customize your character to be unique to you and like never before. there are a ton of quality of life upgrades, "praise the jump" take the review bombers with a grain of salt. in my opinion most of their complaints are likely to justify quitting because it was difficult.
Despite the stuttering (which for me doesn't happen much) I absolutely love this game. I love the difficulty and the open world. I believe this game has TONS of replay value with all of the different builds possible. Would absolutely recommend this game to anyone.
The games stutters every few seconds, it is locked to just 60 frames per second, does not offer the option to change fov and the performance is far from good which makes the lack of DLSS/FSR even worse. Ray tracing is also not present at the moment of writing, but it is supposed to be added in a later update. The stutters are constantly present and they plague every system not even rtx 3090 and 12900k are capable of maintaining a constant 60fps at 720p. Behind all of these issues is a great game, but the performance issues are so severe it is impossible to look past them. If we put the performance issues aside, calling this game great would be an understatement, but the issues cannot be ignored. Heavily recommend, but only once it is fixed, if it gets fixed.
People are hating on this game just to hate, it's ridiculous. The game is absolutely amazing! There's lots of people claiming that only diehard souls fans will like this game and ignore all flaws, however this is my first souls game and I'm loving every moment of it. The bosses are hard, but they're not unfair. If I die, it's because I made a mistake, not because the boss spammed an overpowered, unavoidable move. Everything is counterable and you just have to find out how, which is what makes beating a boss so rewarding
I hate this game but it's one of best games I've ever played. Hope FromSoftware will fix performance issues on PC ASAP, so it would be perfect then.
Elden ring is a fantastic game. If you like exploring, getting lost, and don't mind punishing gameplay go ahead. If you want a game that holds your hand and tells you exactly what to do when to do and how to do it, than is not for you. Pc has some performance issues.
While I am not a stranger to difficult games, I've never took a dive into the souls-like genre. Elden Ring has therefore been my first proper look at this style of game, straight from the developers that made the genre flourish. Now, with 24 hours of play time, I'm ready to lay down some thoughts and provide a rating, though this could potentially change later if my feelings change. Open World almost feels like a dirty word these days, and many people struggle to find big open maps engaging. I feel that Elden Ring really experiences both highs and lows from the open world it adopted; it can lead to some incredible moments at times, but can equally leave the game feeling like it lacks compelling content at other times. Combat in Elden Ring is generally fun, with a good range of options to approach a battle from, although sometimes you might press a button and have to wait a while before your character decides to act on it which can lead to you getting hit. Bosses in the game are mostly good fights, with many of them teaching you important skills or lessons for later in the game, although a couple of bosses feel like they were not very well thought out. The music... well I don't remember any of it sadly, though when it is used it feels like it fits a situation well. Many people have complained about the optimisation on PC. I'm not sure why - my PC isn't the best, and some parts I'm using are the bare minimum for the game to run, but I've only suffered minor dips to framerate which doesn't bother me at all. My whole experience with Elden Ring has been overall positive, but full of problems big and small. I've only encountered one bug where I got stuck while on the horse and died 20 seconds later. Regardless, I think it's difficult to say if I would recommend the game. If you're interested in the genre, give it a shot. If you aren't then it's most likely best to steer clear. Edit: after beating the game, I don't want to change my score at all. I feel that, as the game progressed, other strengths and weaknesses were revealed to me. While I believe the open world structure definitely excelled at tugging on my sense of discovery, I also think that it resulted in me missing a large amount of potentially brilliant content. Along with this, I feel that the game would do well to adopt some potential tips or accessibility options for newer players or those who struggle with these sorts of games. This would help to make sure that even if the game remains difficult, a player is never truly stuck.
Hello FromSoftware. I have to start this review saying we are in 2022. It's kinda obv but i had to say that. -In 2022, u can't develop a game with FPS cap at 60. -In 2022, u can't develop a game without ULTRAWIDE support. Ok, u never did ultrawide support but before we had mod making your game better. Now u put easy anti cheat so every mod we put in make us banned from the game, also ultrawide mod. (SPOILER: Modders says make ultrawide mode cost 30minutes, so imagine how long it would take you) but you don't care about costumers. -In 2022, u provide us a game with a 2gen old graphic (it's something like PS3). Ok it doesn't matter but let it run flawless. No. It strutter like no tomorrow. I have a 3080 TI and the frame (already capped a 60fps) drops to 30 in every moment of the game, bossfight included. -In 2022, u are lacking every good features existing in the world like DLSS, Ray Tracing, AMD FSR etc. -Where is Steam cloud? we are still in the age where if you format the pc you lose all the saves? -Why if i want close the game i have return to menu (watching everytime the from's logo and bandai's logo) and only after i can close the game. Maybe u could make closing the game just a little bit faster? You didn't find time for make this game playable and enjoyable on PC and XBOX (Also there is exrtemely bad optimizated) but u found the time for develop haptic feedback on PS5 (the game on PS5 work properly, more or less). That's why u only focussed on PS5 cause u don't care about other customers. U provided us a game in a shameful state and your politics is even more shameful The game itself is good.
Note: English isn't my first language and if you are going to criticize me for my grammar then maybe come up with a better argument. Gotta love how people review bombed this lol. The game itself is a marvel. Bad graphic? I don't think so. The texture and details of you and the enemies' armor are well made, the map design is also one best I have ever seen. Bad Control? These guys probably spam roll all the time and expect to have unlimited iframe (invincibility frame) and stamina. Or in another case find something in the settings that are called key bindings. Lazy game design? More than 70 Unique encounters and f load of dungeons and catacombs scattered around the map, I wouldn't call that a lazy game. No Quest Log? Having no Questog is what makes the game immersive. Plus, grace (Aka checkpoints in the game) show on the map the direction where you need to go. The game is too hard? In Elden Ring, you are free to farm to be over-leveled and fight the boss which makes it easier than the previous Soul titles, or maybe just quit crying and try to get good at the game. All these people who review bombed this can't come up with an original idea and I'm pretty sure they don't even own the game, all they saw was "Elden Ring has bad graphics" "Elden Ring is too hard" "Elden ring doesn't have a quest log." And that's literally like the only thing they review bombed this for. Anyway, the game itself is packed with a load of content and a lot of replay potential. It's definitely worth 60 bucks.
This is the second time in my life I give a 9 to a game. If you gave this game less than a 9 there could only be for 2 reasons: - Too difficult for you, go play Hello Kitty Online in that case. - Technical issues. Sure the game could use some tweakings but for the love of god, what's not to like in this game. Amazing world, lore, progression, characters, battle system, crafting... it has absolutely everything. Even stealth and assassination. My only gripe is lack of proper necromancy here. Which may exist because there is a lot in this game that remains undiscovered.
Giant overhype. First of all, lets talk about the horrible PC port if this game. No ultrawide support, terrible control scheme, capped at 60 fps IF the damn thing even runs. From software have been getting away with the garbage pc ports for years and its just stupid. Now, about the actual game…. - Graphics are just the same as the rest of the souls games not good not bad just meh. The UI is especially bad particularly on PC. It is just the same old boring, cluttered silly UI as the other souls games but this time with the addition of a terrible looking map. - Gameplay. Ive finished the other souls games and i am no stranger to the gameplay and combat but i just dont think it fits an open world. I never found myself wanting to stop and fight some enemies or farm some ingredients or XP because the combat is slow paced and BORING. There is 0 innovation on the combat front. The world is empty, when you find a “quest” its not written down anywhere and is delivered in vague terms so you are at risk of ending up forgetting the damn thing. I shouldnt have to keep a pen and paper next to me write stuff down. A lot of the choices the devs made are just bad user experience not “good design”. - Story. Its a souls game story trough and trough but this time with the addition of an extra pretentious writer who wrote an extra pretentious “deep” story.
It is now almost a week since the release of the game and still the from software does not move to fix the game, I predetermined it over 1 month ago but I had to get a refund, always the white screen is received with my video card.
Despite the poor performance, it's an instant classic that rivals BOTW in terms of scope and exploration.
not support 21:9 limited frame late 60fps **** optimization **** keyboard custumization
I see people complaining for it being “too hard” get a grip it’s a souls game. People came into this knowing who it was made by and what the type of game it stands for. Either get good or stop playing it is a niche game market for people who enjoy a challenge if you cannot step it up and make en effort to get good at it stop complaining and go play a game that rewards players for the bare minimum. 10/10 game From did it again with an amazing game!
I love this game! I've already sunk in over 25 hours since launch. It is frustratingly hard, but it feels like next time you have it for sure, over and over hahahaha. I started out as a Wretch class, with no previous Souls-like game experience. I died like 10 times to the first creature (a wolf) I found but I loved it! It felt so fresh and exciting. Slowly finding new weapons, skills, abilities was so fun and rewarding. This game would be a great game to stream, so many random ways to die, so many stupid mistakes. I would have given it a 10 but there are some graphical freezes/issues that, while I notice them, aren't game killing for me.. yet.
Absolutely amazing game that is near impossible to put down. The massive open world is brimming with enemies, dungeons, loot, and secrets. Graphics and art style are top notch. Combat is fast and brutal, the best from From so far. This game had a coordinated review bomb from some lonely neck beards living in their mom's basement, don't listen to the 0 star incels.
The performance issue are nothing compared to the explendid game itself, it's no joke, one of the best games ever!
This game is a culmination of everything FromSoft has done until now. It is vast, ambitious, and beautiful to behold. The game doesn't just feel like the perfection of a "souls" game, it feels like an evolution of it. This game will be talked about for years to come.
The greatest innovations of this iteration of Demon's Souls are mechanics from the decade prior to Demon's Souls. Jumping, horses, open worlds. Wow, why didn't we think of that before? Like pretty much every FROM game since around the DaS 2/BB era you can quickly use this game as a proverbial dipstick or smell test to see how susceptible someone is to media hype in video games. It's not a new franchise, it's not a bold new direction, it's just red guys hitting you from 10 feet away and luring you into enemies again. This is like calling Quake 2 fresh because you have an inventory like in Hexen. There's no reason anyone should care. EDIT: Ok, bad analogy, it's actually like if Quake came out every 2 years between 1996 and 2009, and each time it had that room in Gloom Keep where you grab the gold key and the shambler pops out, only this time in 2009 everyone's saying that the shambler's "art design" is incredible and it's probably the best game they've ever played.
This is the best game I've ever played. Graphics have improved greatly since DS3 and there are countless improvements and additions to the old souls formula. The map is massive and there are countless locations to explore.
A great open world, great creature designs, great bosses and great gameplay, this game is on top.
Amazing game, amazing atmosphere, amazing gameplay, amazing music, amazing ideas. After elden ring we need something new, it’s everything we have ever dreamed a fantasy rpg to be. 0 only because it’s 60fps capped instead of 144? Lmao I almost believed it but than I heard the crying on dying on Margit maybe even before.
I am appalled by people what people is complaining about. I've a slightly above the minimum pc and I'm playing basically without any worries. True, sometimes while running in the open the game stutters, or the frame drop to 25, but usually I'm between 45-55 fps and have never experienced this with a boss nor I died because of this. And yet some people compare this to CP77? Probably are running a potato or never bothered updating a driver. And this is the medium level of the critic: "I play on keyboard and mouse and it shows me controller input". To be fair to me these are quite forgettable critics. I mean, come on, does people really get the difference between 60 and 144 fps? Long story short: performance are fine. They'll likely be improved, because yes they can, but are fine and there is no such thing as a "0, litterally unplayable", if you don't have cognitive dissonance. Then gameplay, history, lore, mechanics, aesthetic, everything is amazing and perfect. Is also kind of hard (Dark Souls hard) and I suspect this to be the main problem of many negative reviews. Thank you Margit. This along with missing the "go there, do that" point on the map, but again, as usually fromsoftware does. You can understand what to do (and usually is "kill everyone") and where to go the moment you think about it. I mean, a NPC told you "go north" you go north, even if in the map there is no sign, right? I'm speechless by how many times I read stuff like this. This is likely to remain as a masterpiece in the years (and decade) to come. It is not a revolution, or a total innovation, but it's the peak of several genres.
Played on a medium-end laptop, on medium graphics. World was beautiful, game play was challenging but fun when successful. Game crashed once but I blame discord overlay. Exploring the world is the best part, especially when finding hidden stuff.
Excellent game. I have had performance issues on a fairly high end rig, but they are nowhere near as bad as reviewers and fans have been claiming (for me, anyway). The idea that the performance issues should drop the score I think is pretty absurd as I am pretty confident it will be patched and they have had no impact on gameplay for me. In terms of the game itself, I give it a 10 out of 10 because none of the flaws are objective in nature. There are subjective flaws based on one's tastes but that's not the point of a review. I get bored of most games very quickly but have struggled to pull myself out of Elden Ring. It has the smoothest gameplay of anything in the genre due to the colossal world. If you are challenged by a difficult foe, you simply travel somewhere else and find something new to do. The art direction and world design, the latter of which has plainly benefited from George R. R. Martin's contributions, is spectacular. I find myself very curious about the characters, places, creatures, and environments and eager to learn more. For instance, a gruesome and vile enemy, the Godskin Noble/Apostle, has me fascinated about their origins (and whose skin they are wearing). They are perhaps the most unsettling bosses I've seen From design yet. The gameplay is superficially a step back from Sekiro, but one must consider the constraints imposed by the gargantuan variety of character equipment, skills, magic and so on. From that vantage point, it is a clear and unambiguous step forward for other action RPG's From has created, and so far has the best fights I have seen in the series yet (aside from Sekiro, which is competitive or still somewhat superior, although I have not finished Elden Ring yet). Now, if you're not a fan of From's work and related work in this sub genre, I think Elden Ring may sway you, but it still has incredible challenges and other issues that will turn players off if they bounced off before. I would still recommend it unless you are absolutely not a fan of this style of game. In closing, I'm not sure what the point of having a 10 point scale is if this isn't a 10.
deadirons you need to shut the hell up bruh you sound so entitled right now along with every other PC user whining about frames.... "Money grab" you say then don't play it, not cause it is that but because you have no shame in mislabeling a beauty **** just to fit your own pathetic narrative, this is why I hate PC players. The game is a masterpiece and no amount of crying is gonna change that so keep doing so soyboy.
Amazing game from From Software and is the best place to start for a Souls like game. I can't wait to actually achieve the ending and 100% of this game. I have 30 hours and that is spent exploring and one main story boss.
Gameplay is good but it has many glitches like some times torrent just becomes invisible and it looks like I'm floating and some times the enemy's like some guards become invisible but their hand torches are visible just fix it
Having played some of the other souls games I had some pretty high expectations for elden ring. This game undoubtedly just reskinned several assets however the open world and improved combat/enemies just took an already outstanding formula and expended upon it. Now I understand many people had performance issues with the game and were disappointed that the game was not especially optimised for pc but with any fairly decent pc the game should run with only a few choppy moments
Where to start. Well let's begin with all the 10/10 reviews. I do believe it is a amazing game, and I really enjoy it, but it has its flaws. Network code: not much improvement from dark souls 3 and in general, online is a bit hard to get into. Had one item activated that should summon me into other people their world when they got invaded but never happened. PC build/stable FPS: It is From Software their first open world and mistakes will be made. Where I didn't have too bad of a FPS drop on pc, I know others did. And I sure had some awful frame drops myself during certain fights. In the end, it will be patched out rather sooner then later so I do not feel like it is too far of a point to judge on. Open world: Their first open world and they nailed it. The moment you step out of the introduction area, you can go wherever you wish to go in a stunning looking world. Walk around and stumble upon a cave? Well it has some neat loot in it and worth a grab. By far the best open world game for me. Difficulty: The game can be as difficult or easy as you make it. The first boss people seem to be having issues with is Margrit, who is indeed difficult. But it teaches you to do something else. Go out and explore, level up, get stronger weapons and then return to properly fight him. Everything together, it is a solid 8 out of 10 for me. Not everything is perfect, but which game is? A true love letter to the fans of the dark souls series.
This Is amazing even if die over and over again but this is a solid great game please play it as long as you dont mind the deaths the many deaths 9999999 out of 9999999 good game! (oh and if complain about how hard the game is then get gud or dont get souls games)
Decent game, but i would like more to have like guides, or at least visible active quests with information what to find.
Don't waste your time with this dumpster fire. Play elder scrolls online instead, it's everything this game wishes it could be.
This is probably one of the best games ever made. Despite some issues on the pc port that the company is improving constantly, the game is flawless to its very core. It combines aspects of open world Games and rpg mechanics better than many other action rpgs. Fair warning the game is not for everyone as it requires a lot of time spending to learn its mechanics. If someone is looking to breeze his way into the final boss he will be disappointed.
Ran better after I enabled this from graphics settings press the window ski and do search for graphic settings Browse for the game then put for high Performance improved performance
From Software once again demonstrate why they are so beloved by the fans. They know what they are doing when making a particular kind of game, and they have perfectly adapted everything they learnt from Dark Souls, Bloodborne and Sekiro to make an extremely engaging and breathtaking open world. Unfortunately the game is held back by its technical limitations. I think there would be a lot less complaints about the graphics if the performance was good, but it isn't. The pc performance ranges from acceptable to poor. A vast majority of the time you won't notice the problems, but when you do, boy is it bad. Overall, it is a fantastic game and a definite must buy if you are a fan of From Software or open world games
(I see that the game has some notable negative reviews. Some are mad and refunding the game. I have three responses: (1) I rage quit Dark Souls back in 2012 after 3 hours of frustrating play. But after putting down the game for a week, clearing my head, and watching guides, I went back to playing what I discovered to be my favorite game series for years. For those initially disappointed, I encourage you to take a break, watch some guides, and try again! (2) If it’s really not for you, that’s perfectly fine! There are great games that I would absolutely refuse to play (Ninja Gaiden series, Nioh etc.) after trying it out a bit, solely because it’s not my type of game. I respect those games nonetheless and would never hate on them just because I don’t like them. (3) If you’re somehow angry at the game for the high critic reviews, I’m glad that From angered the right people: not their long-time fans. As a long-time Souls player, I’m not angry in it in the slightest. Some people overhyped this game to be something it’s not, but it’s what I wanted as a long-time fan of Fromsoftware: an excellent game that pushes the genre to another level while keeping its core identity. It’s not a perfect game by any means. The bugs for many people are horrible, and I hope they’re fixed soon. And though I’m very happy with it, it’s not 100% what I expected from the game. I was hoping for a more majestic open world, and not another decaying, post-fall-of-the-Gods kind of story. The world could be less drab and foggy. But for a guy who impulsively bought Dark Souls: Prepare to Die Edition 10 years ago and ended up loving the series, I can see that this game was made with a lot of love. More room for improvement means more games. I will eagerly await the next Fromsoftware game. Until then, I’ll happily get lost in The Lands Between for the next few years. It’s a 10/10 for me.
This is currently sitting ABOVE God of War on the metacritic score. That would be the God of War with the fantastic graphics, story, combat, exploration, acting, and PC optimization. After playing Elden Ring for a few days now, I'm just here to point that out. Read the **** reviewer who gave it a 70. Apparently he's the only critic who escaped the FromSoft reality distortion field. The graphics, the bad pc port, or the bugs ALONE should be putting any score above 80 out of reach for this game.
This game takes everything that is great from earlier fromsoft games and combines it in an awesome way. It still feels like a souls game. the open world was made in a great way. It feels like you really explore and not just run from questmarker to questmarker like in other games. even if you prefer closer leveldesign the castles really give you that soulslike mapdesign. the amount of content in this game is just insane. overall a great game that exceeds my expectations.
It plagues me to rate this game like this, truly. however due to deliberately blocking widescreen support, you have to use a mod to properly use your 21:9 monitor, which then bans you from online play. since i love souls-games especially for the online pvp and the devs are deliberately blocking me out of it because i have invested hard earned money in a more expensive rig and monitor, i feel extremely excluded.
All of the complaints are standard. This is tiresome. All of the complaints are from newcomers who clearly haven't played much of Fromsoftware's catalogue. The game meets or exceeds the bar set by Soulsborne fans. Serious but short drops in framerate are easily managed. I have died once due to it and I have played for 15 hours. Story... to the people complaining that there is none; the story is always hard to understand but it is told through item descriptions and the environment. It is like a puzzle and it is my favorite part of these games. Kick rocks. Gameplay: Clean hit registry that is fair. If you die, it is your own fault. ****'s hard. Are you new or something? Graphics: Unfortunately dated but still beautiful.
Going past the stuttering and a horrible port, it is typical FromSoftware stuff - a horrendous grind fest, a mindless slog and rewardless gitguddery. The open world is graphically substandard (very much so - think cca 2014), utterly lifeless and uninteresting with often reused enemies and terrible dungeon design. It's a slapped-on gimmick and makes Cyberpunk's terribly dead open world look lively. The UI is pure horror, as is standard for FS, but surprisingly the game also backtracks on some of the good changes from Sekiro, namely a relatively sane combat system and logical gameplay progression. Be warned! - only for hardcore Souls fans, massively unfun, and terribly ported.
If you like Dark Souls, go ahead and buy this game. If not, be prepared: This game offers NOTHING more than endless action in a depressing grey-scale world of dead people. The mobs are machinations with shamelessly limited AI for this era. The only reason i bought this game is because the rave reviews of obviously paid reviewers oversold it. These people should be ashamed of themselves. UPDATE: Having played 12 hours, its a lot better than I initially thought. A solid 8. very enjoyable now that i have a grip on how the game plays and have re-framed my expectations
It's ridiculous that after 2 patches, the invisible enemies bug still goes on, it's an issue that can completly ruin your experience, really it's more important fix the popping or whatever than people can actually play?
Just like Breath of the wild did a while ago Elden ring shows how a open world game should work. There is no quest log, there is no mini map, there are no directions just your intuition and information you will only get by jumping into the world and start exploring. Elden ring map is as beautiful as it is in size, there are many regions each of them with its own aesthetic and each of them more epic then the last, it is just so vast and rich in content that there will be times where you question how the hell was this game produced. There are an insane amount of different enemies each of them with their own powers and fighting patterns and the boss fights are glorious. The only thing that makes this game a 9 instead of a 10 is the performance in PC which to be honest is in an unacceptable state but the game is so good you will try to forget about this. I give it a 10 to compensate the 0, isn't it how Metacritic works?
This game is truly a masterpiece. When you are exploring the lands between, you will have a strong feeling that each part of this world is carefully designed and arranged. Btw, this epic game is really massive. I've spent nearly 30 hours on it and only explored about 40%.
Its not a souls game,its a sandbox mmorpg game if you want to go on main story you should level up and you should farm for level up. İts like ubisoft **** its okay.This is a good game but... WE JUST WANT TO BETTER OPTIMIZATION games real score is 9 for me but with this technical problems;0
Just another copy paste Deamon Souls without any creativity or major development. Excruciating long fights where you hit bosses and dodge role and wait for a chance to attack again. There are no chances to be aggressive or creative. Inventory and skills could Be simplified or made more unique then every other game they have Made. It pains me to play and I can’t even watch steamers play it because they are having the same negative reactions about the game that I think when I play it. This is a copy paste game that was over hyped. Not Cyberpunk levels but pretty overhyped.
A Truly masterpiece , try this game before review play with spec I7-12700K and 3070 TI with minimal shutter when explore open world The World is full of suprise things and sometime you active it without know how to do that again, just wandering around limgrave now but there still many thing to explore. Like all of the others Souls Games , the boss fight is epic , if you want hard it hard , if you want easy it easy. Also the music is epic too. Summary, i'm sure performance is problem but try it before review please.
Technical issues pretty much ruined my experience from constant stuttering to all out game crashes. How this game has a 95 score on pc by these so called “professional critics” is beyond me.
Really just leaving this to try to balance out all the weird negative reviews. Almost all of them seem to be just complaining that widescreen isn't supported or that it stutters for them. You're supposed to review the GAME. Anyway I don't get it I'm running this on a GTX 1080 from 2017 and 16GB RAM and getting no stuttering, a smooth 60fps, and I didn't even have to lower any settings. The game is hands down the best Soulsborne experience I've had so far
Why the f*ck Metacritic put 95 on this **** game??? i guess Metacritic love to play 15-20 fps game lollllll -Massive frame drop -Massive frame drop -Massive frame drop -Lot of issues -Massive frame drop For a tactical game Bandai Namco. you not working good on this important issues. i spend 90$ for a dumb game,
One of the best games action open world rpg of the last 10 years. Quality and quantity are over the top. The masterpiece of From Software.
This game is dark souls if everything was turned up to 11 one of my favorite games of all time.
"jajaja im **** at video games and dont have hands or eyes so i give a 0/10" uninstall the game then **** thanks for your cheese clowns.
Honeslty the worst game I've ever played. Was kinda hyped by being an open-world, for the great reviews but this game is yet another example of how the review's aren't to be trusted nowdays. You beggin the game, nest thing you get is ultra hard boss, very hard to beat. Game gives you literally no pointers. It is VERY hard to play it, but it's an "artificial" difficulty, sometimes boss don't even hit you and removes half of your HP, makes no sense. In my experience, Dying Light 2 (for example) was kinda harder, in a sense that you, the average player will have a good challenge with it but at the end you'll feel accomplished you beat the boss or whatever and you'll keep playing. This game? Straight up impossible. It's not rewarding at all, it's just annoying, and after 8 hours of work last thing a person who's stressed during the day needs is game of this kind. I understand that some people like it, but many gamers got tricked by the reviews and the metascore. This isn't mean for the mainstream gamer, it's meant for one who likes a challenge and has a controller or two laying around to break and a lot of patience. Also, did the reviewers even test this crap? Performance is absolutely awful, I have a AMD RX 6600 paired with 32 GB 3600mhz and a AMD Ryzen 5600X and this game lags WAYYY too much and I don't even have the graphics set to maximum. This PC can run Cyberpunk 2077 Ultra without a problem. TLDR: Don't trust the Metascore, don't know what happened to this getting 95/100, it trully doesn't deserve it. If you want a good open-world rewarding game to play in your free time, get Dying Light 2 or Cyberpunk 2077, this is just bad.
This port is a joke, an expensive one. One that will cost you 60 euro's. All these fanboys rating 10 should not be able to rate a game because its a **** zero... Performance is ABYSMAL, 60 FPS LOCK in 2022!? No widescreen support. Big and constant stutters that destroy the immersion. The game doesn't even look good.(truly) No change in gpu usage between low and maximum settings... I knew that the gaming industry was bad and a money grab but really, I did not expect it from From Software. But yeah they failed us too. Fck em!
There’s a bunch of things that they need to fix for this game on pc version like the movement and mechanics as well as lag but other than that this games looks nice
OK. I created an account specially for this because I'm sick of stupid people who don't know FromSoft games and rage-quit after the Grafted Scion leaving 0/10 reviews. So let me address some of the points that they made. 1. “The pc port is horrible, and the stuttering is awful” I personally am playing on a 2020 laptop not built for gaming, playing on high graphics, and the game has stuttered once very mildly at Stormhill. I'm writing it off, but if your pc isn't good enough to play it on ultra-high settings, perhaps consider lowering them rather than **** about it on the internet. Plus, IMO, it's no grounds for leaving a 0/10 review. 2. “The graphics are outdated” The game is f**king stunning, guys. Plus, if you've ever played a FromSoft game, you'll know that graphics isn't the main priority. The lore, story, and gameplay are more important – leading me onto my next point: 3. “There's no lore!” Yes there is you **** donkey. One piece of advice? Play the game. 4. “It's too hard” I'm sorry, but there's an incredible technique – changed my life. You ready to hear it? Ok, here goes… Git gud 5. “It's just hype, people are lying and saying that it's good just because they're fanboys” Nope. I'ts been out for 5 days, and it's already one of my most played games in steam. That's not hype, that's astounding gameplay that forces you to keep on coming back. 6. “It's not actually open world”/ “It's nothing new, open world isn't revolutionary”/ “It's so empty” Yes, it is open world. The definition states: “In video games, an open world is a game mechanic of using a virtual world that the player can explore and approach objectives freely, as opposed to a world with more linear and structured gameplay” No, it may not be revolutionary, but it's incredible to see the mix of dark souls and open world. THAT'S what's revolutionary. And also, this is empty? I've never seen a less empty world – not Skyrim, not BOTW, not any game. And finally, people comparing it to CyberPunk2077… Did you guys even play it when it came out? It was full of bugs, and was virtually unplayable. Now THAT'S an example of overhype. I find it funny people doing no research, spending 60 dollars on a game that was not meant for them, and then leaving a rating of 0 – decreasing the average to a measly 6.1/10 (at time of writing). Do I think it's 10/10? Probably not. IMO it's 9/10, but I need to get these reviews up, so I added the extra point. Great work Miyazaki! Keep it up.
Interface and controls on PC (Kb-Mouse) is a pain in the ass. Really they didn't even manage to adopt it for PC. "B, A, Y, RB and LB" WHAT THE HELL it means? Had to google for explanation. I though TES V had a bad interface now it seams to me perfect! To call Torrent I have to hold "E" button and press "2" and I have no idea how to change it - unbelievable! World Map ... took me a while to figure out how to fast travel and you cannot navigate it using mouse! World itself, game design and all the rest is perfect! Really FromSoftware you have to do something about it it's 2022!
Don't buy the PC version, it is in an early alpha state. Performance ****, graphics are part from DS3 with different textures, the engine seems to be the same as DS1. Balancing is also not yet finished. Story is the "same procedure as last year". The DS approach with minimal story does not fit the open world concept. I also think, that no dev has played on PC. There is no other explanation for the stupid controls... I enjoyed DS1-DS3 and Sekiro on PC, but i start to see why some people hate this game.
I don't want to be too harsh and give it a 0 - As the majority of the 'game' itself is great. The scenery is good (or what we can see of it at 16:9....). I enjoy that its difficult, I enjoy the world is huge and can be explored. Gameplay wise I do think they could have done a FAR better job with a tutorial. Instead of just a golden beam which leads you to an unkillable enemy then fend for yourself - Maybe the first few destinations should have been some of the key items and easy dungeons to settle people in. An in game journal would be a great benefit too. But gameplay aside there are the horrific negatives - No ultrawide support (or apparently.. its IN game, and you render at it, but artificial black bars cover it?) I cant for the life of me understand why they would do this. Open world games with scenery like this are the exact reason ultrawide exists!! if its some kind of 'fair play' between console and Pc gamers then its ridiculous. League of legends, one of the biggest most competitive games going allows Ultrawide, and that legit gives you an edge in that game. - No NVIDIA DLSS. A game with such wide open spaces and alot to render would benefit SO MUCH from DLSS. It literally doubles or triples peoples performance with no visible negatives. - FPS cap at 60 - So so poor. Console gamers find this bad framerate acceptable. PC Gamers do not. If its not 120+ It just feels clunky and broken. - No Native PS controller icons in game when using it (just shows Xbox). How can they even get this wrong when the game LITERALLY is released for PS4/5 aswell AND theyre the biggest sales by FAR over Xbox. -No FOV options. Game feels too close to character (ESPECIALLY WITH NO ULTRAWIDE!!!!) For now im using the mod (that took less than 24 hours to release btw!!!) to get ultrawide and FPS cap remove. Which means cant play online - which **** because I enjoy the message, blood patches etc. Lets hope From Games take this info on board - since there are THOUSANDS of players wanting it. Its no good releasing a patch to fix these things months down the line when everyone has finished the game. I dont want to play through twice. I want to enjoy and play it NOW
An extremely bad port, it's actually pretty difficult to even get through the character creation screens because it assumes you're not using a keyboard/mouse and normal PC style keys just don't work (E.g. the escape button doesn't work and right clicking does something super weird). The help at the bottom is essentially of a console controller and the only way to figure out what to do is to hit all of the keys on the keyboard until you find some that are mapped to the same thing as it's telling you to press on the console. It's the worst experience I think I've had starting up a new "PC" game and trying to get going.
Gone is the natural progression that was characteristic to previous DS titles. I don't fancy giant empty spaces between the bits of content that are left of it. Horseback combat is chaotic and awful. Game looks ok, but engine locked at 16:9 60FPS is a faux pas.
The game is gorgeous and the world is full of content to do solo or with friends, it is challenging for veterans of the soul series but it is also fair for the new players, so if you enjoy this type of games or want to try it, I recommend it
Purchase in pre-order. Big expectations! Big deception! Poor port for PC need more time in otimization. Expecting more of Bandai Nanco and Fromsoftware.
First of all, I don't have any stuttering issues on my average self build gaming PC and the loading times from my m2 are sweet. While I wish Elden Ring were produced mainly for the PC, thus having some shiny features like ultra wide support or slightly better graphics, it's not a deal breaker for me, because a good game is not just about shiny graphics (Paper's please, Return of the Obra Dinn, Rimworld) and I had hoped, my fellow gamers, would agree with me, but apparently Ubisoft's brain washing paid off. I keep reading the word masterpiece and it's true. Elden ring as the amalgamation of everything From Software has learned from previous Souls games is the crowning achievement of Myazaki. The poetic story telling, the impressive visuals – the way the brightly glowing elder tree towers over a continent befallen by sickness and distress comes to mind – and finally the impressive arsenal of weapons and well thought out combat – it's nothing short of amazing. I wish From Software had these stuttering issues, a bad port and every other minor inconvenience people whine about in their reviews as if it were the end of the world in a different game and avoided this overshadowing their magnum opus, but it is what it is. enjoyed my 50 hours so far and to all the people crying about accessibility, I can only say:"Git gud and ram your head against the wall until it breaks or leave, level up somewhere else and come back with your newly acquired floppy hammer for more kinetic energy to give them the business."
There are legitimate performance issues for this game. However the foundations of this game are fantastic. Seriously one of the best games I have played in the last decade. There are some minor stutters in the game when exploring the over-world, but it's nothing game breaking. Hopefully these stutters will be fixed over updates, but it doesn't take away from the experience as a whole.
Imagine being one of these paint drinkers complaining that a game designed for a controller has bad keyboard controls, absolutely hilarious. The intellectual titans complaining here must also complain that Civilization has poor controller support. Also, nearly all of the texture issues people are whining about here are the result of outdated graphics drivers and have nothing to do with Elden Ring, something you'd expect anyone with even a rudimentary understanding of pc gaming to understand. It's a flat-out abuse of this platform to give games 0/10 scores because you are incapable of troubleshooting your own computer problems.
Masterfully crafted game. Sure, it has some technical issues, but I give my take with the assumption these bugs will be ironed out (their hotfixes so far have already alleviated the issues somewhat, so they're obviously committed to fixing it). I'm not even a huge Souls fan, they tend to just stress me out, although I do respect the game design. However, ER does alleviate some of the more grating aspects of the Souls formula. You can take the game at your own pace, rather than being subjected to the relentless gauntlet that these games normally tend to be. It's still very difficult in places, however, but the challenges are always surmountable.
I cant give an 8.5 so a 9 it is. A rough PC launch held this game back from being damn near perfect. Everything from the atmosphere, scope of the game (it's massive), beautifully crafted world, unique enemies and bosses, combat is very satisfying as well. Story's decent so far. The issues with the game right now for me is coop. It's very janky, sometimes works, sometimes just doesn't. Constant DC's but when it works, its damn fun. Play mostly solo so it's not too big a deal but if your looking for a game that is bang for your buck, this is it. Not sure if it will be your thing if you don't like souls games. Personally I'm not really a souls players. I dabbled in all of them for probably a combined 50 ish hours or so but I absolutely love this game. I'm addicted to it and cant stop playing so I would say challenge yourself. It's quite the experience. Doesn't hold your hand and doesn't give a F**k about your feelings. If you can get on board with that, buy it! If not then go play Tomb Raider (not a bad game just easy mode example) or something like that.
Best game ever made, especially if you're a FromSoftware fan. Don't let anyone else tell you otherwise.
Even though Elden Ring is a great game, It didn't managed to meet our expectations.
More of what you've come to expect from a souls game, but with a horse.....
Aside from performance issues, the game is beautiful. Those people who hate it are plebs well mostly are so called "Journalist" lmao, get gud booooy!
Game is great but the lack of basic accessibility options from a AAA is unacceptable. Camera auto rotation is abhorrent and has no toggle, no ultrawide support, 60fps cap, forced chromatic abberation, forced motion blur. Impossible to play due to motion sickness. Will be happy to update this once options are added.
Thanks Metacritic! Today you just taught me to not trust users review! I will tell my honest opinion about the game: this game could be easly a 10 game but is a 9/10, because is true, it has some little thechnical problems and very minor defects (BTW without compromise the playability of the game), and JUST because that. In fact, this game is still SO FREAKING AWESOME!!!! I give 10 in order to compense the other sensless users bombing reviews, and it's really sad because look more like an outburst of frustration than an honest review and these are the same people who tells that this game lacks of content!!! Are you kidding me?? Guys trust me, i played all FromSoftware games. I missing only bloodborne cause i am a PC gamer and if you like the Dark Souls Saga and also to be more generic if you like Fantasy/Dark Fantasy, you need this game!! You cannot image the quantities of stuff to do in this game and how huge it is!! The open world its at least more than double of how much i expected to be. Can be compared to Zelda BOTW or to The Witcher 3(plus with an huge vertical extension). The start could seems a little bit quite, but after few hours of gaming Elden Ring start to have great Rhythm. There are so many different paths to take and things to do. You never get bored and some of the places are really astonishing and everything with the dark souls style(i see also a lot of LOTR, Berserk and of course GOT vibes in the game but not just a copy rather a new marvelous masterpiece)! This game is Epic in every single aspect: gameplay, art style, level design, lore and in my opinion the author has just outdone himself with this fantasy MASTERPIECE! Its true has some little defect but i think they will solve it soon so just give it a change! This is the game we was waiting. Thanks again Miyazaki. i love you and i hate you, just as always!
Launch was kinda rough for a lot of people. The game ran fine for me and I can without a doubt say that it is the best game I have ever played - a solid 10/10.
the game runs almost flawless on my Gtx 1070 MSI & Intel i7-9700k Amazing game, the game needed some Nvidia control panel tweaking to fix the stuttering. but for me its gone almost completly. to all the ppl crying and giving a bad review. if you cant fix the issues yourself why even own a gaming PC ? pathetic.
This game didn't even run on my PC even though my PC configuration is higher than the minimum requirements, refund. Maybe after that Miyazaki will learn how to optimize games in which even the graphics do not change.
Big Dark Souls, fantastic game. Stuttering issues, minor boss glitches and inconsistent multiplayer sessions only thing holding it back. Immensely satisfying combat, open world is exciting to explore, and the increased depth in spells and weapons make exploration enjoyable and rewarding.
I hope the PC bugs don't permanently hurt this game public image and From can be able to fix it quickly. Honestly, anything less than a 7.5 is nonsense.
Alright, first things first, the port is a bit janky at points, but here's the thing: Less than 25% of people have beat the first Major Boss, and by far the most stuttering I encountered was on day 1 against the first minor boss, Tree Sentinel. I've played ~60 hours and haven't had any noticeable stuttering after the first 2 or so hours. I use a 1060 and r5 3600, for reference. Everything else is amazing. It's been years since I was so captivated by a game. But know that this isn't Uncharted or Skyrim. You're not going to have cutscenes where political intrigue is discussed openly. The lore is rich but scattered and it'll be up to you to piece things together. You'll have to be attentive to this game, both in combat and out, there's just so much you'll miss otherwise. I can also admit this isn't the game for everyone. It's challenging. It's made me very frustrated at times. But if you're honest with yourself, your failures are your own and are fair. You're at a disadvantage often and will have to fight uphill often, but if you learn about From's mechanics (Spirit Summoning, Magic, Co-op Summons, and enemy affinities/weaknesses), you'll be able to steamroll encounters by being their exact counter. That feeling of overcoming what feels unfair is the drug that makes these games special. Enjoy at your discretion, not at others' prescription. Oooooo, Elden Ring.
I think this game is still very good even though there is a fps error on the pc but it has been fixed in the update
It's actually a joke that a company knows the game doesn't run well on PCs, and still release it at full-price with an 'after-the-fact' apology note. Seriously, refund this mess and don't invest time and money in From Software games unless it's on special.
It smell like **** in here. Haha. For real though, wonderful game and would've been a 10 if it had not been for the "gAmEbReAkInG" performance hiccups.
Perfect game, speechless. The ones who are crying here are rat children who have never played souls, or who worry about nonsense. What fromsoftware did with this and its open world, for any fan, it's amazing. If someone does not think the same, let them return to fifa.
Terrible performance it's barely playable absolutely unadvised. Just don't buy it's terrible
The game is not a 10/10 as reported by these so called professional reviewers. The engine, graphics and mechanics is simply reused and at this point it's extremely outdated. It's 2022 and PC gamers and forced and locked to 60fps and 16:9 aspect ratio, performance issues, stuttering & compatibility issues in a difficult game like this is should have been a priority but it wasn't, sales and launching was. This proves 100% that even companies like From Software is not willing to keep up with the fast moving technology of PC. Having top end gaming gear only to be limited by a lazy developer is not acceptable.
rELEASED A PATCH BUT ALL THE ENEMIESARE STILL INVISIBLE THE GAME IS **** **** THE GAME IS **** **** THE GAME IS **** ****
lags and freezes lags and freezes lags and freezes lags and freezes lags and freezes
ELDEN RING ELDEN RING Game of the Year 2022 I really love this game ELDEN RING ELDEN RING
As the first souls game I have played, Elden Ring is a brilliant game for an introduction to the series. While the game's difficulty seems daunting, after every death, it still pulls you back in to give it another try! Sad that this game is being reviewed bombed because it's one of the first games in a while to not have an abysmal launch.
A gorgeous game. Expansive world dappled with secrets, lore and combat. It is more than meets the eye. Definitely recommend.
Incredible game.. There something very special here, Elden Ring is one of the biggest games I've ever played, It's truly fantastic.
They completely ruined the PvP in this game. While the zones are amazing, and the combat is fun, the PvP was ruined. The player doesn't scale properly, you are always matched with people that are 2v1 or 3v1. The net code is awful, so bad that you are literally attacking people in the future.
constant stuttering regardless of hardware, watch digital foundry vid on youtube for further context
I have never played any of the Souls games before, but being a connoisseur of RPGs and hearing of this supposedly legendary RPG series I felt it was time I finally bit the bullet. I figured with Martin penning the game's story it would be rather grand involving political intrigue and riveting tales of man's inner folly. Having grown up on D&D and CRPGs I expected to have a fair idea of what I was getting into. Much to my surprise, I found a vast open world filled with nothing to do. I created my character to wander around some lifeless void. Oh, it looks rather grand the art direction is quite phenomenal though the textures muddied and the game is plagued with pop-ins as well. I am able to forgive the occasional jank for a good and true RPG. I however did not find one in this game. I'm not sure what constitutes for an RPG these days amongst the general public, but generally it's a game with roleplaying options of which this game seems to have none other than building your character's stats and skills. All problems are solved through this game's languid, ponderous, and clunky combat. No non-combat or social options in this supposed RPG. The exploration as as dull and lifeless as the world in which it inhabits. Some scant crafting materials to create some mediocre items with minimal stat gains. Undoubtedly the usual carrot and the stick seen in the MMO sphere influenced this trash itemization. The dungeons were quite interesting and a more linear experience and I killed Margit after ten or twelve tries. The game's molasses combat was made even more frustrating due to the various technical issues that plague this supposed RPG (Hint it's not an RPG it's just combat pornography) Your character's hitboxes are far too large causing the enemies to strike you frequently when you're clearly outside of their swing radius. There's also numerous frame rate drops making the game's sole feature of combat extremely difficult since the technical execution of the developers lack of talent is holding you back further than the difficulty of the game is. All in all this game is not an RPG, there are no roleplaying options. It's just combat pornography for the youth's violent **** sadist rituals. If you have any class avoid this buggy mess like the plague it is and cast it into the fire! I for one got a full refund from my local gamestore, but I hope to save others the expense. We all know this game doesn't deserve a perfect score. Roleplay 0 out of 100 Music 20 out of 100 Story 0 out of 100 Gameplay 0 out of 100 Don't let reviewers beholden to the gaming industry cheat you hard working folks out of your money!
MASTERPIECE! The game is just incredible. The atmospheric story telling combined with the tough but fair challenge present fun and enthralling experience. The graphics and style are just amazing, with a plethora of breath taking moments and landscapes. The combat as always is just plain fun, with hundreds of different ways to fight your enemies. Tough but fair. So if you like a challenge and don't just want to mindlessly mash buttons this is the game for you! A lot of the bad reviews stem from players who desire to be held by the hand with every step they take. You will have to keep track of the pieces of information you acquire and find your own unique way. I think it is very refreshing that there is no large arrow pointing into the correct direction.
Much more friendly and less awkward than ever. Has it's technical issues, but who doesnt at the launch? Overall very worth the time and money
Yeah, that's it. We ate at the peak of gaming. This is it. It's all downhill from now. Elden ring is, with the lack of a better word, a masterpiece. Don't play it if you like skyrim, button mash and hack-and-slash games. This game is harder than you can probably handle. The game also does not hold your hand, at all. It's your adventure and your own path into becoming an Elden lord.
Congratulations Cyberpunk 2077 a new game has taken the spot for the most broken game ever made. 11 FPS, automatically going back to the home screen after you load in and that's when it let's you log. They should have named it "Broken Ring" bad as this pile of crap is and this is on the PS5. I can tell the publisher spent the year marking budget on buying reviews for this game because it's pure garbage in it's current state. Save your money and don't buy "Broken Ring"
The optimization its horrible but the game its really innmense and cool. If you're a souls lover, you will find the way to make run almost perfect in the PC and YOU WILL ENJOY EVERY **** moment of this masterpiece. If you're an very exigent rat gamer, wait for the next version of the g america. But if you wanna a get a lot of soulsborne, get it.
No ultrawide support? Performance problems? Are you guys **** out of your minds? The only true excuse would be the fps lock otherwise game runs silky smooth on most hardwares, if you are complaining about performance problems, hope you get stuck on rtx hell where noone could play it properly. I have a gtx 1070 and the game runs much much better than it should tbh. First off, game has no denuvo. Port as it may be but developers are actually showing respect to the players. Sekiro had many many mods and community support beyond launch and this is no different. Game itself is amazing beyond what these whiners deserve. 10/10.
I'm gonna start with the critique, then get to the compliments. My real score 80, B-, pretty good. First, after playing 20+ hours of this game I can safely say, it's a Souls game. For better or worse. I think with the hype train pulling into the station it's very clear that FromSoft has hit Pokemon/Nintendo levels in the eye of reviewer's. It feels like false advertising, as I can see most people picking this up as their first souls experience thinking there's finally one with story and accessible combat and that's just not the case. This is FromSoft's masterpiece, but not an masterpiece ****. Starting with the graphics, I understand that Souls games (besides Demon souls remake) usually look not great. It's the "style", but as the years go by theres no excuse for lazy hair cards, bad tree imposters, and truly some ugly texture work. I think this is one of the spots where you can see them resting on their laurels a bit, the overall quality is a AA studio (maybe). The foliage is some of the ugliest in games, the trees are antiquated in their design and have clear AO outlines on the leaves. They also are hyper poliginal, and lack in variation. The character is stiff and unatural still, clearly the same rig they've had forever. I understand the whole, "if it ain't broke don't fix it", but it doesn't mean you can't push things forward. Blue point proved that. Lighting an open world is no easy task, and there's quite a bit of light leaks and strange artifacts but overall cudos to them on that. Combat is DS3, I do love the new additions of magic being more accessible and the ability to change weapon traits. This is the only part where I'll talk about the frame drops, it's definitely annoying, but not unplayable. It's just crazy that a game that looks like a PS3 HD remake can't coast at 60 WHEN THATS THE ONLY JOB IT HAS. Without buttery combat, Elden Ring shows the flaws of not really offering more Beyond frustrating deaths and exploration. I see that people want an "easy mode" or something to that effect, but I think without a strong narrative theres no real way to offer such a thing. If it existed, it would expose the places where FromSoft has always been lacking which is true narrative. An normal gamer picking up this may enjoy a bit of the dive, but it has no real meat to bite into. The game LITERALLY starts like most Souls games. You boot up, make a character, go die to hard enemy, and wake up in a new place with _insert female character_ telling you you need to reignite/reassemble _insert lightsource_. It would not shock me if they just had George R.R. Martin fill out an Mad lib they typed up. Got one of the best writers in the world, and somehow still couldn't make something unique. The game doesn't really say anything. Not all games need to, but with they way they hyped/presented it and what it actually is, it removed some of the luster immediately for me (love that slider though). As far as being an open world game, it's okay so far. I can't believe that in 2022 the praise a game has gotten for adding in an jump button, an ground mount, and literally adding nothing else to the genre. Not that it needs all the bells and whistles of other open world games, but it seems very strange. Though, Torrent is a cutie patootie and I have died to save him many times That all being said, I still love it! THANK YOU FROMSOFT! Truly, no easy feat to make a game and not easy at all to do it in a global pandemic. Time for compliments The music and sound design is impeccable. I actually love the overworld music and have gorgeous audio ques has actually helped me dodge attacks when the frames drop. I love the sense of urgency and adrenaline that really only monster hunter can provide besides this. The horror of exploring an area, waiting for something to pop out and keep you on edge is unparalleled. This is masterpiece for them, it highlights all the amazing design and combat that they've cultivated over the years. I would not recommend this game to most people, but I know the ones I do are gonna love it!
i don't think it's a "good game." the game has an extremely thin story and almost no guidance in terms of what you should actually be doing. the game purports to have a high level of difficulty but the truth is that elden ring requires you to do an enormous amount of grinding before you approach much of the content. and as you grind, and as you get abilities that let you escape the games horrible combat system (the right weapons/spells) you start to cheese the game as easily as any other. i wouldn't buy the hype or buy the game until it's on sale.
If you look past all the bogus reviews that are complaining about things that will most likely be fixed on a later patch; no ultrawide, frame cap, low frames in certain times. You will easily be addicted to this game. I'm not a previous souls player and absolutely love this game. I cant stop playing it and getting better items to take on harder foes. I will say i was a huge Breath of the Wild and Witcher fan, and this one is the Grand daddy of them all. A game where progression in single player is actually a thing. Boss fights are so well thought up its quite impressive. This is the perfect game for me post 17 years of raiding in WoW. I cant recommend this enough. Just buy it.
Very good game. Essentially dark souls mechanics / items / quests stuffed inside of a BOTW style open world. It's fun to alternate grinding/exploring/dungeons. A lot to do in every single region, lots of interesting minibosses, sidequests, and general fun exploring. The open world does not feel copy and pasted like other open world games i've played. A lot of people are complaining about the graphics, but i completely disagree and think this game looks fine. Would much rather sacrifice graphics for good gameplay eitherway. I think with the PC performance issues this deserves a 9/10, but giving 10/10 to combat the ridiculous 0 score bombs.
After playing through Dark Souls Remastered and putting in some time with Dark souls 3, I was ready to jump into Elden Ring. What an improvement. Being able to fast travel right from the start is a huge upgrade and the many checkpoints make exploring a joy. The combat is improved from previous souls games but more or less the same, so if you've played any of the previous games, your skills will carry over. I will be putting in thousands of hours into this massive game. Great job again From Software. Thank you for this.
Everything i wanted it to be and more! Some issues on PC such as crashing or stuttering, but that's the only bad thing i can say about this game
First FromSoftware game I play. I didn't adapt to any Dark Souls or Demon Souls games because in addition to the already known difficulty, the linear world was very limiting. The open world in Elden Ring is amazing and rewards you for the time invested in exploration and grinding, even allowing for a mixed build. I started as a Hero and STR Build, I'm adapting to STR+DEX and I should put some points in INT and MND too. Note 10 despite the bad performance on PC (I have an RTX 3070 TI) and I hope they fix this and other problems soon besides releasing expansions.
People calling the launch "bad" either have terrible PCs or need to go outside. Game has some strange lag when transitioning across zone borders which isn't really that big of an issue most of the time. Game is otherwise probably the greatest Open World game ever. Its like if Breath of the Wild had depth to its gameplay. Story is amazing, visuals are breathtaking, combat is super fun and custimizable. Just about everything I want in a game is here.
This game doesn't live up to the hype, it absolutely destroys it! If you got drawn in by the hype without knowing what a FromSoft game is like, that's your fault. If you complain about performance issues and are trying to use a 780ti, that's your fault. My only complaint is how invasions/summoning work, I wish they were more like previous FromSoft games. Stop being a baby and GET GUD.
Absolute scam article. Shameful exploitation of the open world hype train. The game is unplayable. Even without the abysmal PC ports issues, this game is like a bad Unity 3D mobile game project with clunky contols, inexcusably bad UI, horrible graphics and animation, constant glitches and textures from 1999. Digital purchases from retailers are non-refundable and I for one am 50 euros out of pocket. I feel like my hard-earned money has been stolen from me by dishonest game reviewers and the game publisher. I'll be filing a complaint at my national consumer protection agency unless my money is returned to me. Theft is illegal, I believe. For shame, From Software, Bandai Namco and you dishonest, despicable game reviewers that you bought, for shame for you treacherous, dishonest and bought "reviews". Goddamn cash grab. Never seen anything this shameless in my 36 years of gaming.
The PC port really isn't as bad as people make it out to be. Sure there are framestutters, but nothing gamebreaking. The actual game itself is an absolute 10/10 experience too.
Another game like 2077, good marketing, trailers, reviews, but the game bad.
Stuttering and freezing were ok to me. But the bosses were just terrible. Fighting was not fun at all. Hit-and-Run strategy is not working but that one is the one I would like to do mostly when I play Souls.
In my new souls fan recently opinion (I've just only played DS1, 3, Sekiro): 1. Advantages: - About Gameplay is drawn from previous games, less stamina cost, you can teleport without required sitting in the bonfire (lost grave) but not of that the game is easier cause the bosses are adjusted challenging similar to previous games. Visual art, dark atmosphere, environmental sounds, story-telling, it's just strangely beautiful, it plunges me into a dark fantasy world. 2. Disadvantages: - Admittedly, optimization is really bad, fps drop happens quite often, low to medium setting is not much different, i hope in the future FromSoftware will release more patch to fix this. This is a game that reminds me of a real sense of adventure since the last time I played Skyrim. Like I said, the above is just my opinion, no matter how many different opinions, I still enjoy this game. * And i have an advice for you, who spent time to read my opinion: - Don't listen anything or anyone says, including me, all review whether good or bad are subjective, you should experience this game for yourself to get your own feeling. Trust me, you'll find it well worth it.
The game is too hard. I have a full-time job, I don't have time for this. I don't understand how a niche game like this can be praised so much. Some people don't want to waste their time.
Buddy told me to check this game out I used to play some action games back on the PS2. Not really my jam these days, but I figured what they hell why not. Let me tell you this is no God of War. Booted this game up thought it looked okay, kind of like an old 360 game, but whatever. Must be a good story or something. Speaking of story I guess other than the one eyed girl and the crappy cutscene there isn't really one. Figured since it had the Game of Thrones writer on it it may be cool, but I guess this is the reason why everyone hates the damned show now. He must not be very good, probably another SJW propped up by the hollywood elites. Dodge mechanics are pretty clunky and don't seem to work quite right.. Seems like your character's hit box is larger than Nancy Pelosi's slush fund. Clipping seems to guarantee that the enemies kill you through walls and rocks and other crap, but you never seem to go through them. I presume it's some intentional feature to create a faux sense of challenge to the game. The alternative is that the programmers lack the technical wherewithal to pull of what they're striving for. Now that I think on that though it's probably the latter with the number of bugs this game has. Frame rate drops are pretty harsh and consistently occur on boss encounters. Maybe it would have been a cool game if the story was any interesting or if the developers were worth a lick, but they seem to be reaching for the stars when they can't even grab the dirt off the floor very well. Play God of War any of them and hard if you wanna play a real good game. I'll be taking this back to gamestop and telling them the damned thing is broken to get my money back because it's just awful.
All of these 10s are paid actors trust me. Game **** in every aspect. DON'T BUY IT!
Never played any souls games, but this is the best game I’ve ever played. It’s a bit buggy, but compared to what AAA titles have been like lately it’s perfection. I love this game and I will happily sink hundreds of hours into it and pay for whatever DLCs they release.
This game is basically the definitive souls game idk what else there is to say. If you like FromSoftware and their souls games you'll love it. Yes, there are technical issues but I've no idea how people are actually bothered by this all I've experienced were framerate drops which lasted for a second and happened so infrequently that I always forgot about them until it happened again. I´m talking about a slight inconvenience every two-three hours or so. If this and the admiralty outdated graphics (imo art direction is more important than graphics anyway) is enough for you too give this game a bad score then you just value these things more than I do
I'd give it a 10, but direct x 12 ****. This game is amazing a true culmination of everything fromsoft has learned while crafting their previous titles. Elden ring being fromsoft's first foray into open world building only makes this experience more impressive. I've never seen a more organic open world. The only caveat is if you didn't like their previous titles you're surely not going to like this. This game will test your patience in all the right ways. If you've been a fan of fromsoft games then prepare yourself for an awe inspiring journey through the lands between.
game with too many technical problems controller not recognized lags no 21/9 ect. multiplayer works when he wants from software missed his departure another game released too soon
One of the most beautiful type of media i ever saw, a truly crafted masterpiece. The addition of stealth makes you think extra in your decisions, and approach with creative ways to surpass your obstacles, the challenge of the game is mainly on your ability to explore and prepare yourself to greater dangers. Is very beginner friendly, but has yours ways to gate-keep content, putting very strong enemies to protect certain areas. The sound design is superb and the world is vast and mysterious.
There is no reason, for all this my game does not even enter I have an Rtx 3090, when it enters gets less than 50 fps, we are in 2022 has no excuses!
Gameplay and sound is great. However, there's a lot of issues. No ultrawide support, capped FPS and stutter issues to name a few. Cannot recommend in it's current state with it's price tag if these are things you care about.
It was the worst idea to make ds as rpg. Lvl design is bad you have 2 bosses that you can't win in early game it was unnecessary to leave them in start. And ready to play in 15 fps
First time I play a "souls like" game. I like: Graphics are great, the monsters, the world - it all looks amazing. Lore - the story and atmosphere is appealing. I don't like: Its very difficult and you cant change the difficulty setting anywhere (I know some people will defend that, but to me this is either willfully to discourage casual players from playing the game or just lazy cause it takes more time and energy to change how hard the game should be). The combat is clunky (probably subjective), I defiently did'nt like that there is no type of lock-on system. So you feel like you are aiming right at your target but then instead you end up taking a swing right next to the enemy. The whole combat system feels clunky, other similiar games have done it way better. Its got some serious performance issues on PC. As it stands now, its not really playable. This might be something they fix later on. The game does'nt have a pause button - even though its a singleplayer experience. The stupidity here just blows my mind. The game seems quite repetetive and like it has'nt really evolved much from its predecessor. All in all, I feel like I gave this game a fair shake but ultimately its just to hard and frustrating to be fun. It dose'nt help that the combat system is poor as well. If these things were fixed as well as the performance issues, it might be a more enjoyable experience. Unless you feed off of frustration and are willing to put up with a janky combat system, I would recommend you stay away.
Everything a Souls player wanted and even more. Not a 10 because of the performance issues on PC.
No 16:10 display support for a game in 2022, it's so bad... These black strips on top and bottom destroy all the experience from the game! I have to install apps to play in normal resol, wow, thanks, and I can be banned for that, btw, so bad...
This game is the best game I have ever **** to be quite frank, the review bombs are unfounded in my opinion. Everyone I have talked too who properly updates their PC has had 0 issues, or only very minor ones, with the game. If you are on PC.....UPDATE TO THE LATEST DRIVERS. Nvidia released a new driver specifically optimized for Elden Ring last week. You need it. It helps. Do not ignore it. 2nd.....TURN OFF THE STEAM OVERLAY. Steam overlay causes issues with all kinds of games, not just Elden Ring. Just turn the dang thing off and watch your performance improve. I did both of these things and have had 0 issues with frame rate, stuttering, or anything else that everyone is griping about. It is amazing to me how many PC Gamers don't do the basic maintenance of updating drivers to help their game and PC performance. The game itself is fantastic. It is the classic Dark Souls combat, mixed with an incredible open world with secrets and items to find EVERYWHERE. Literally their seems to be secrets and things to find on every inch of the massive map. Oh, and Boss fights galore. If you like Fromsoft games, then it is the perfect mesh of all their past games. The lore is great, and while there is a clear cut overarching "quest", most of the in-depth lore is still very cryptic and can be discovered through reading item descriptions in true Dark Souls fashion. I haven't been this into a video games in a lot of years. It ticks all the right boxes, is super addicting, and I find myself thinking about the items, worlds, bosses, and lore even when I am not playing it. It will forever be one of my top 5 gaming experiences, hands down. So to conclude, ignore the review bombers, update your PC, and enjoy one of the greatest games in recent memory. You will not regret it.
drop frames, slow motion when i start fighting, and there is no Arabic language.
Don't be fooled, most of those people who gave the game negative reviews NEVER played it. Just compare it with the note on steam, where there are only people who PLAYED the game
One of the best games that’s ever been created by From Software. My only issue with it is that i’ve had this bug that won’t let me change my screen mode, whenever i switch it to full screen, the game pauses and goes back to windowed. It’s very annoying and i would sometimes get stutters. I’ve heard From Software is aware of it and when it is fixed, it deserves a 10/10.
Since I'm playing on PC it's only justified that I write a review for the PC version. Elden Ring is a beautiful vast open world with plenty of things to explore and bosses to fight but at the same time it just feels so empty. Following the same format of the previous Souls games you are thrown into a barren world bent on a task to restore order. There is nothing new or different about this game when compared to the other games released by FromSoftware. Sure you have a vast open world to explore which is new but the world just feels empty, don't you think that with doing a open world you might have thought about adding in a passive fort or village fighting just to make the world seem more lively. There are a few NPC's to be found throughout the world, some of which have quests to give but don't expect the game to tell you where to go for that quest. in all my 45+ hours of playing I have come across just one quest marker and that was to show me where to find a portal, other than that you better either be taking some notes or scrounging the wiki for the answer on where to go next. The variety of bosses in this game is great, some optional and some mandatory to continue the main story. The music is phenomenal with my favorite being during the Ancestor Spirit Boss Fight, that fight alone just reminds me of The Dancer fight from DS3, not as hard but just as wonderful and graceful. This is the perfect game for any newcomer to the series to start off with just because of how the open world provides a sort of play at your own pace feel to it. With as good as this game is though it's not without it's issues, I can't even begin to count the amount of times I have died due to stuttering or random FPS drops, the game is locked at 60 FPS which is fine but when it just randomly drops to 15 FPS it can be a bit jarring. Beyond that I've had my game crash on me a couple time and had a few enemies break to where they just start spinning. This game is fun, don't get me wrong. It's not deserving of a 0 but also not deserving of a 10. Down to it's core it's just another Dark Souls Game and nothing new.
Elden Ring, the latest offering from FromSoftware, is a game that is as challenging as it is captivating. The game’s high difficulty is a double-edged sword. On one hand, it provides a sense of accomplishment when you finally overcome a tough boss or clear a difficult area. On the other hand, it can be incredibly frustrating for players who find themselves stuck, unable to progress. The steep learning curve only exacerbates this issue, making the game potentially inaccessible to newcomers to the genre. The technical issues at launch were another major drawback. The game suffered from bad optimization, leading to performance issues that detracted from the overall experience. The 60 fps cap was a disappointment for players with high-end hardware, and the lack of ultra-wide support and upscaling implementation felt like missed opportunities. However, it’s not all doom and gloom. Elden Ring shines in its open-world design and storytelling. The world is vast and filled with secrets to discover, and the lore is deep and engaging. The game’s world is a joy to explore, and the sense of discovery is one of its strongest **** of the most touching aspects of Elden Ring is its tribute to Kentaro Miura, the author of Berserk. The art style of the “Souls” games, including Elden Ring, was heavily inspired by Berserk, and the game includes several references to Miura’s work. This serves as a beautiful homage to a man whose work has influenced the genre so profoundly. In conclusion, Elden Ring is a game of contrasts. Its high difficulty and steep learning curve, coupled with technical issues, can make it a frustrating experience. However, its open-world design and storytelling make it a game worth experiencing. Whether you’ll enjoy it or not will largely depend on your tolerance for its more frustrating aspects.
The culmination of Dark Souls, Sekiro and Bloodbourne make this the best game FS has ever made. The open world is beautiful with loads of secrets to find and nooks to explore. The bosses are satisfying and well designed. The story is well written with lots of intricate and juicy lore nuggets. There are some performance issues on PC at release but none of them serious enough to hinder my enjoyment of this game.
The game is being slammed for (almost) no reasons. Most of the time, the players that I've seen complain haven't made the nvidia driver update, or checked that the game is running using the graphic card instead of the processor's graphics. If that's your case, you definitely should try doing so before adding the review. As far as the game's content is concerned, it is a masterclass. Althought the graphics are somewhat outdated, the artistic direction is just incredible, and it is the most important point in my opinion. The gameplay is just as good as the previous souls game, with new mechanics which integrate just well, and reward playing aggressively, to break the poise of the boss and deal huge amounts of damage. You have many options and ways to play. The story and lore are really interesting, although mysterious, which might deter some, but is really rewarding if you love digging into the game's mysteries. The bosses are really good too, some of them being just insane, and will probably end up being just as cult as Sullyvahn or Gael. And to finish with, the most important part, which is the open world aspect, is also it's strongest point. You have a total freedom, like in breath of the wild. But where it stands out, in my opinion, is regarding the loot. Your exploration truly is rewarded, as most items you find are unique, giving a true feeling of finding something precious each time, be it a weapon, a spell, a npc, an invocation, an armor, a unique item... The game also always surprises you, with unpredictable events happening regularly, which is great for an open world, as I often find that a routine quickly settles in in most open worlds. Not in this one. To sum it up: it is a souls game, and probably the best open world I've played, despite not being the most graphically up to date game. A true masterclass in my opinion
I cant rly belive this is after release. The game is literally unplayable on pc, it has terrible perfomance, awefull controls, random crashes, invisible enemys, the cow also goes invisible, its simply a master **** Its unplayable, yet we still paying 60 euros or whatever. This on pc its a SCAM!
In the past, the game content has made little progress compared to the past. Badly optimized old engine ditched DX11
This game is my favorite souls-like and probably my favorite game. It's impossible for me choice a note that isn't 10, so... Congratulations Fromsoftware.
It’s crazy too see so many people giving this game 0/10 because of some minor technical issues, I understand the 60fps frame cap is an issue for some people but I don’t get giving it a 0/10 because of that, honestly it’s a 9/10 but doesn’t deserve the hate it’s getting so I have to give a 10 to bring back the score a bit. Combats great, lots of weapons choices and more customisation than any game in the series before it. the world is massive and beautiful, absolutely nailed the art direction of the game again. Bosses are certainly the most interesting and difficult the series has had to offer. There are negatives, some people are having mild performance issues, small amounts stuttering in certain areas, the frame rate is locked to 60, and there’s no widescreen support (this one annoys me a little). The games hard, duh, its a souls game, I think a lot of the review bombing is due to its difficulty and pc gamers incessant obsession with frame rates, as if you need anymore than 60 in a non competitive title like this.
Sincerely people who put 0 are really not objective, considering this, im forced to put 10 even if the game has defaults, but if i was objective, i would have put 9.
Best game ever, the patches will fix it in PC so no worries. And of course I played it on PC I'm not coming from a console.
Amazing game. The bad reviews are just people review bombing or giving it 0 because of MINOR and rare stutters. This is crazy. The game is absolutelly a 8 or 9 even when taken the stutters into acount.
I've put in around 40 hours in to this game and it is by far one of the best games Miyazaki has ever made, if not the best. People complaining about issues on PC are most likely running underpowered systems. I've not encountered a single issue with this game, at all.. My system specs are an RTX 3979, i7-10870, 32GB of Crucial Ballistix 3200mhz RAM. I'm running it with a 300hz Panel at 1080p because you don't need anything else. Ultra wide and 4k are completely unnecessary for a game like this. That being said, this game is Brutal, it is incredibly difficult and rewarding. If you are not able to put in the time to learn or a Souls veteran stay away, you're gonna have a bad time. However, if you're willing to put in the work the game has so much to offer and so much to do. I feel like I haven't even scratched the surface and, like I said, I've put I'n 40 hours. The game is a definite buy if you like these kinds of games, if not, just ignore it and save yourself the trouble of getting rekt.
I hate this **** its hard to move its hard to attack its hard to play. I hate this **** damn too much and anybody who pretend to love it
Minus few stuttering issues (i'm certain they will be fixed soon) in certain parts of map... game is AMAZING!
great game. this is a masterpiece from Fromsoftware. really great game design and flow to the game. reccomended
where is the patch????????? Three days after the last patch you did nothing to FPS
20 hrs in and love every second. Community fixes remove all major slowdown. Balls deep in the game and who cares about reduced frames? Cry babies...
The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite! No Arbic language ! There's No reason ever let you to not adding our langueag Respect us
Great game play but you wouldn't be able to experience it because of the garbage performance
This has been my favorite game in such a long long time. Honestly the open world + dark souls style is amazing so many things to do. While I have only had the game for a couple days I've already put roughly 40 hours into the game and there still feels like there is a ton left to complete. There has been a ton of QOL changes and new additions which makes the game better and arguably easier than previous titles. HOWEVER, there is still plenty of amazing, challenging, and fun bosses all over. I don't know the exact number but I'm already about 60 bosses in and while some are basic bosses a lot are really cool. I've been playing on a midtier PC that I bought last Black Friday and I haven't had any real issues with the game frame rate or lag. I am only playing on medium settings though because I don't want to nuke my pc since it's really nothing special lol While the majority of the game isn't really too difficult there are some bosses that may take a while to beat. I'm giving this a 10 simply because I cannot remember the last time I played a game anywhere near this good. I can't say it's a perfect game since I haven't 100% it yet but it truly is amazing
There is no Arabic language despite the promises made by the developers of the game before its launch, it does not mean anything to me now and is not understood
PC port was sick. But the game is amazing, after all. I dont care about graphics or smt and every soulsgame always locked at 60fps (Bloodborne only 30)
So much vasted potencial. This game is just for a few gamers with unlimited time and inclination to masochism. No pause, you cant crouch when opening chest and maaaany other bugs from 90ties.
My machine has no problems with it but it is pretty beefy. Asides from the technical stuff, it IS the best Fromsoft ever made.
I'm saying this as someone who never really like any of the previous Souls games. Elden Ring is my favorite game of all time. I would 100% recommend this game to everyone. I honestly never thought I would fall in love with this game so much. It's kind of ironic comparing myself today to myself a few days ago. Elden Ring is literally my life now.
Easily one of the best games of all time. If I could give it an 11/10 I would. The bad reviews are just trolling and from people who want their hand held throughout a children's game. The highest rated game in modern history and rightfully so. Well deserving of its place in the conversation as the best video game of all time. Congrats and thank you Miyazaki and FromSoft!
Elden Ring is a big adventure with a lot of areas to discover and amazing designs. There are a lot of low negative reviews that are unjustified. I have no problems on PC, no lag, although I have a highend RTX 3080. Also make sure your GPU drivers are up-to-date. I have connected an Xbox controller to my pc for the controls. The 60 fps doesn't bother me too much, but higher would be nice. No reason to give a low score while the gameplay is amazing.
This review is for performance section only. tl;dr game runs great, only minor stuttering. First of all, see those "performance bad" reviews? It's greatly exaggerated. The game runs very fine, in fact it's like a miracle that it could run on my RX580 4GB + 8GB RAM rig in modified High preset. The game do have minor stuttering which is not game-breaking at all. And no, the game does not support Windows 7. Please upgrade your OS. In case you're asking for Ray Tracing or DLSS support, it will be supported later in a patch, just wait. Also, I'm certain these review bombers are those Discord users who planned to review bomb Elden Ring months ago.
There is no Arabic language. Support the Arabic language! Support the Arabic language!
This is the best game I have ever played. Childlike wonder of exploration? Check! Difficult rewarding combat? Check! Immersive storytelling? Check! My character being fully customizable with a unique experience compared to other players? Check! Huge world that never slows down and keeps the rewards and danger coming? Check!
. The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite
If you've never played a Souls game, PLEASE do not start with this one. Every other game in the series is a better place to start, I worry that for someone who starts with this game, they'll miss out on the rest of the series because hey, this is the newest one so it MUST be the best. It's not, it's near the bottom of this great series. Maybe at the bottom entirely. So... another Souls game. Not saying that's a bad thing. The combat is fair and challenging, the presentation is solid, the graphics are... alright, certainly not 2022 stuff (unless this is just a bad PC port... which now that I look over the reviews, it sounds like I got off light, it just looks old and blah, it's not stuttering *anywhere* near as bad as many are experiencing) This is not a bad game, 7/10 is not a bad score. It's alright... but I'd wait for it to be on sale for like $20... While it retains many of the elements that made prior Souls games great, what it cuts out was essentially the heart and what it adds in simply doesn't work. The open world is boring, the enemy placement is lame, I didn't feel any sense of wonder or world building that even comes close to the rest of this series. The game feels rushed and more like From was told to make a game they didn't really want to make. As a huge fan of Demon's Souls, Dark Souls and Bloodborne... I'm not disappointed per say... but I'm certainly not wowed either. I don't care for how open the game is, it really ruins what makes these games great. I don't care for the setting, take Bloodborne for example, the setting was the best thing about it. I don't care for the random hodgepodge haphazard placement of enemies, it honestly feels like an early 2000s MMO when you look at how things are laid out...I certainly would put this near the bottom, maybe just above DS2, in terms of souls games. That being said, 7/10 doesn't mean this is a bad game and DS2 isn't bad either. It's just not anywhere near their best work, which I'd recommend 10x over this title. Again, not horrible but it's not worth $60 and From Software clearly didn't put much effort into this port. Sigh... maybe I am disappointed, writing this really made me feel that way. 6/10, skip it. 7 is too high of a score for how much of a fall from grace this is, especially with how bad the port is for PC.
Elden Ring is part **** that may not be for everyone, but if you are willing to give it a chance, it might grow on you. I have a 12600k and 3070 on windows 11. I have not experienced any huge frame drops and only one crash in nearly 20 hours of playing. This game requires imagination. The story is not just fed to you and requires piecing together. Again, this may not be for everyone, but if you are the kind of person that likes to actively think and let their imagination run, you will find lots to explore here. I wish they would have smoothed out the launch so that everyone had the same, more or less smooth experience that I did. I am hopeful they will patch it soon. 9/10 because of the launch issues. Otherwise, this would be a perfect score.
So basic issues with the game: Performance is horrible, even on a RTX 3090 Game is locked at 60fps Game does not support ultrawide Keyboard and mouse menu navigation is counter intuitive and should be standardised There's a good game there somewhere, which is probably worth a 7, or 8 out of 10. It would still not be a perfect 10, but no game really is.
I think guys didnt play this game because this game is awesome and 1 or 2 week fix for optimization
The game is a combination of all the other works of the studio, a wonderful and attractive work, but not for everyone. It is a game that harshly punishes mistakes, but magnanimously rewards victories.
Elden ring is in short, a nearly beautiful masterpiece. It perfectly shows what From Software aims to achieve with each and every iteration of the games they develop and growing with each new one. While the PC launch port of the game is suffering from some technical issues like frame drops, they are fully aware and are addressing these issues. Its amazing how the game has launched in almost every platform in a near complete state which sets the bar higher for games that release at launch to be broken only to be fixed later (*cough*cyberpunk 2077) This is truly worth the $60 dollars in my opinion.
No that high fps? some stutters? no ultrawide support? low optimization? those mean nothing when the content is so extremely good has this piece of masterwork, some people is kind of crazy giving this game a straight 0 because of some technical issues i have to say.
The game on pc is litterally unplayable with a high end pc. This should be illegal il 2022. After 8 hours of stuttering i decided that I'll not ruin my experience with the whole game until from fixes the mess they released.
The critical reviews for this are all correct. This is just Dark Souls again "now with goat-horse!!!". Including the trademark artificial difficulty that the games are known for. There is a difference in a game being hard because it takes skill. And a game being hard because the character moves like a boulder, and all your enemies have overinflated HP bars. This is Game Design 101. And I cannot believe the developers are being praised and awarded for this crap. But if you've already played a couple from software games, aren't you tired of doing this yet? The "lore" in this game is really some standard convoluted JRPG trite. Only this time it's trying its best to look like Skyrim and Witcher 3. The new open world is just big for no reason and it has a very amateur design philosophy. The controls feel like you are playing a PS2 launch title. And the stiff animations don't make it any better. Just a boring chore to play. I feel like this game is intentionally wasting my time and has zero payoff. I really don't get how a person can play this and be amazed. Unless it's the first game they've ever played. You'll probably like this if you're pretty slow and aren't capable of deep thought.
An excellent soulslike with a much bigger world and giant creatures! We have all the familiar ingredients in Demon Souls, Dark Souls Trilogy, Bloodborne and Sekiro, but now with some additional abilities including mount to navigate an open world.
This is an utter **** game. A retro-design that fails in every regard. Only reason to like this game is that you enjoy beating a crap design. Looks okay on a PC, not good in the least. No tool help, the tutorial is a laugh, take a wrong turn and you're **** it's about grinding, progression is worthless, spend as much time in-game as googling wtf is even happening and how do I use my stuff, story is fragmented, controls **** up because it's a lazy console port. Worst I've played in a long time. Only zero on here, so far. All my money down the drain.
I just can't play with the recommended fps settings below 20... 97 for this game is a joke. once again these game critics are paid to rate
Litteraly one of the best game game i’ve ever played. I’m a huge FS fan, but didnt expect ER to be that good.
How a 2022 game can look so terrible graphically? It looks like light, rocks, foliage are from a 2012 **** lore is not interesting, the audio is poor. The animations are really really bad. A lazy job!
When they said "I doubt you can even imagine it", they were right. And because I didn't want to imagine it, I didn't watch any trailer apart from the 2019 E3 trailer, I didn't read anything about the game, tried to avoid every type of information about it. I wanted to experience it. I wanted to be surprised by what this game has to offer. And man! This game has a LOT to offer. It hits all my weak spots. The ambiance is so captivating, the architecture and landscapes are breathtaking, the setting, the way things are presented, how small you feel before the challenges that you face and before the environment, it makes this adventure feel epic. That mix between Soul's and Sekiro gameplay is done in a clever way. All those surprises you find here and there along the way are so rewarding. And as always, a deep sense of mystery that just makes you want to know everything about this world. I love this game.
Ok so, I launch the game, I try to navigate menus and fail. I somehow get back to my character, and try to figure out what "R" means. I press R, drink something, then nothing. I begin to understand that the tips on the screen are not for me, a classic PC player with good old keyboard and mouse. I manage to push through tutorial, find how to jump and do other actions by several times going to the keyboard shortcuts. Then I'm asked to wield with both hands with a combination that is not present in the keyboard shortcuts, I had to go search online how to do that. Then I'm asked to do some other special attack on the poor undead fella. I try something, it looks like a regular "power attack", so I have no idea if that's what the "tutorial" was talking about, but the fella is dead now, and I don't know if I'll ever see a tutorial on how to perform this special attack again. I move on, another attack with undecipherable keys that are simply just not present on my setup. I do not even have a controller configured on my PC... Keys assignments are terrible, tutorial is terrible. It just made me want to stop playing. It was painful. I'm not supposed to feel pain from figuring out how to translate console messages to PC world for a game released for PC. Edit: before sending the review, I went back to explore the full content of options, and yes, you CAN set the screen tutorials to display the keyboard&mouse version. Why was the game setup with controller by default even when I have no controller at all is a mystery to me, but it definitely ruined my inital contact with the game, feeling unwelcome, a relic from the past that had to "move on" to controllers. I'm not saying that's the intent, I'm just saying that's how I felt. I understood nothing at all the intro scenes, except there are gazillons of names and concepts being thrown at you that make absolutely no sense. I usually LOVE slow pace narrative, but this is just SLOW to make it look epic, but there is nothing epic about it. You land in the world with a character assigned to a class that tells you nothing about it. It really feels like different teams designing different elements of the game and no one was ever in charge of making sense of the whole package, the user experience. Maybe if I had reached that point where I understand all mechanics, I would enjoy them, but I'm not supposed to suffer that much from the start, and the small details that are off are triggering my alarms, and as an old player, I tend to trust them now. If there is smoke...
Absolutely stunning game marred by the lack of ultrawide support.... Let's fix this now!
This is a true From Software games with all of the previous titles' features and some new ones. It is a difficult game and may not be for everyone, but there are some game mechanics (summoning other players is one of it) to make the experience easier. It has a wide variety of character builds with decent character customization. The environment design and music is to be highly commended too.
Hot Garbage. Not good enough. Utterly abysmal and gutting play any other From Software title even once it is patched the biggest gaming disappointment of my life.
I'm playing on a mobile gpu which is way below minimal requirements with relatively stable 40 fps most of the time. Only stutters and freezes that I have seen were during horseback open world boss fights, especially the one with the gold knight in the very beginning. The game is great and looks beautiful, feels a bit like botw in souls world. Introduction was kinda harsh though as I was able to completely miss the path leading to tutorial and skip it without noticing so I had to find out everything myself. Definitely recommend.
for a 2022 game the issues can't be accepted, dropped frames and game freezing on bosses are the most serious issues but it's an open world game npcs look like dummies maybe it's the lack of open world experience, but a game delivered like this at full price is not worth it, I hope they solve the most serious problems and manage to save the game.
Peeps seriously need to chill about the frame rate. It only dipped a couple of times during the 20 hours I've put into the game so far and a fix is surely coming. I'm a serious fan of souls games (especially Bloodborne and Dark Souls I) and can honestly say this is the greatest game I've ever played. I love it. I think about it when I'm at work, when I sleep, when I poop. It is unhealthy how much I am into this game. Send help.
One of the most immersive and beautiful world's I've delved into in a long time.
Elden Ring is absolutely amazing and I'm having a great time and also getting my ass kicked. The open world is amazing and the enemies are awesome. I'm running this on my PC without facing any problems and I'm getting 55 to 60 FPS consistently.
There's no a good story, there's no a good musics, there's a disappointment graphics, there's a lot of performance problems.
An actuall masterpiece in my opinion. The only problem this game has is the performance. Its only truly horrendous at the Tree sentinel boss fight after that its mostly fine. Other than that I dont think Ive played a better game.
Haven't had any technical issues, but the game to me is just boring. Sekiro was such a good game that brought the genre forward. Elden Ring is a 180 turn back to rolling around and cheap mechanics.
SIMPLY WONDERFUL, I think is the bedt game I played... EVER!!!! Hard, bosses, super strong foes, weapons, armors and a HUGE map!!!! This game is soooooo goooood!
Poorly optimized and riddled with bugs. Don't buy the hype from the same people who told you Cyberpunk was a 10/10 masterpiece. Just another generic FromSoftware game.
One of best games I ever played, the freedom to choose where to go is what makes this game so unique in the genre, enjoy until the last weapon or outfit discovered!!
Solid Game. My toaster of a computer runs it just fine. Ultra-wide is not really necessary for this game to be good - this game is great. Classic dark souls/from software at their best.
loved it! it's dark, gritty, cruel, and incredibly beautiful, exactly what you want from From Software!! the story is so interesting and every tiny bit of lore you find is hype the music is once again amazing. best part for me was the open world, because it is HUGE and detailed and there are so many hidden secrets and things u can find, its impossible to find everything in just one playthrough... I play on PC and yes at max settings it can get choppy but with lowered settings it runs just fine. as long as the game looks great and the story is interesting, I dont really care if it runs at max settings or not, graphics aren't everything.
Personal opinion: The way ANY game performs is a necessary condition for me to enjoy such a game - it doesn't suffice to make an otherwise bad game enjoyable but it provides a set of conditions that allow me to proceed evaluating other aspects such as gameplay, art style or story. If it doesn't perform well, it really doesn't matter whether it is an artistic masterpiece redefining the medium or a cheap shovelware, I simply don't care. The former is the case of Elden Ring for PC. The game might indeed be a critically-acclaimed masterpiece, yet it performs so badly I struggle to enjoy ít regardless of how fascinating piece of work it is. Imagine having a PC that runs comparable gaming titles at 1080p and stable 60FPS when applying the highest graphical preset available. I've built my PC with the exact same consideration, to run most of the games flawlessly using these conditions. There are many demanding, resource-heavy titles my PC is too weak for to run flawlessly using the settings, yet the games from the same branch such as Elden Ring are certainly not the ones among them. I can run Star Wars Jedi Fallen Order - a game that looks much better than Elden RIng - flawlessly, and the same applies to Sekiro - a game that looks basically the same as Elden Ring and that uses a slightly modified engine and shares similar assets/elements. However, in order to enjoy this game at 1080p and stable 60FPS when applying the higest (or just high!) preset, you not only need to wait for the developers to release a patch that will likely eliminate the omnipresent stuttering that is common across the whole spectrum of PC configurations (yes, all the users regardless of their rigs are affected), you also have to own a PC that was built with at least a 1440p type of gaming in mind. That is, you are expected to own now very expensive GPUs/CPUs to enjoy the game in a way a user with regular mid-tier PC configuration enjoys most of the current games available. So you have to lower your demands to play the game flawlessly unless you own a super-expensive GPUs such as 3080 Ti or 3090. I don't like this attitude and I refuse to speculate whether it is an incompetence of the developers or some hidden intentions leaking from underneath, it really doesn't matter at the end of the day. Bad optimization is a bad optimization. To all the players in denial - the stuttering is probably going to be fixed soon with the upcoming patches but the resource-heavy, poorly optimized segments of the game causing your performance to suddenly go from 55-60s to 30s/40s, not. So you better spend at least $1K to upgrade your GPU or purchase a PS5.
OVERRATED TRASH the AI is rubbish graphics are like from 2007 and SOULSFANS should get a life.
this game is a masterpiece. If you like souls games, you are going to LOVE this! That being said, if you DON’T like souls games, there’s a chance you may not like this. There is no journal, your compass isn’t flooded with random markers. You just explore. Every direction you go in will have something unique and interesting. The story is not shoved down your throat, but unlike other souls games you do not have to go looking for it. The game does a good job of explaining story elements as you go along. The combat is amazing, including the horse combat. While the horse combat is very simple, it feels good. Fighting dragons on horseback is epic and feels amazing. I play on a 1650 and have had next to no issues. However I know a lot of other people have had serious performance issues.
اللغة العربية غير متواجدة Arabic language should be available by default.
As a FromSoft fan, I had to play this game on release day, and it's been so hard to put down!! I actually LOVE that it's become more accessible, with more safe spots before bosses for example. The exploration of the open world is addictive, I could run around for hours just gathering! You wouldn't believe how many little secrets you can find, there's just sooo much stuff! Graphics are stunning, especially in the environment, and the boss animations are truly another level above DS3 or Sekiro. I think this game had more repeatability than any Souls game, and I will probably be playing this for years...
What an experience! I expected much, but got even more than I could ever hope for. The world of Elden Ring is simply beautiful - it's harsh and unforgiving, but exploring it is the most fun I've had in months. Is it perfect? No, but nothing really is. The things that I would improve are very minor things like some hiccups with coop disconnects (understandable now that everyone's playing it) that I can easily overlook in favor of how amazing the music is, the graphics, the combat gameplay, the boss design, the story.......I loved every second of it!
Great game in scope, but not as much personality as the first Dark Souls or Demon Souls. It seems the more budget there is, the less memorable it becomes. At least the gameplay is really polished this time around. This game would be worth a 7 if not for the PC version technical shortcomings : lack of Ultrawide support, capped framerate, constant stuttering. The fix for all of this is easily available but comes at the price of giving up all online mechanics and features. I will update my review if that changes.
I am an average gamer with an average PC and have played all Souls games before. Elden Ring far exceeded any expectations. It runs fine on my PC even without the newest hardware so I am not complaining about that for sure. I enjoy the beautiful graphics, the story, the amazing music... I was skeptical about the open world aspect, but they did it SO WELL! There is SO MUCH to explore!! My favorite game ever is Dark Souls 3 but Elden Ring might top even that.
Definitely not a game to make negative comments. But also it's not an exaggeratedly good game. The majority of recent games have ended in frustration. That's why the game is somewhat highly rated. A long-awaited game. Personally, I can't say that it fully met my expectations. It also did not disappoint. Let's take a look at the good sides of the game. The game partially meets Dark Souls. It has a nice game design, although it has some missing parts. It promises a long playtime. Open world trial successful. Let's move on to the bad parts of the game. It definitely, as a 3A game has poor graphics for its release year. It has optimization issues and sometimes it affects gameplay badly. While the open world was partially successful, it was too simplistic and inadequate. It's a bit difficult to compare compared to Dark souls games. Because the boss designs and schematics look a bit amateurish. Although the game difficulty seems to be simplified a bit, the open world is extremely time-consuming and the main focus of the game, the bosses, is not very attractive. There are tons of problems I've encountered after 50 hours of gameplay. I just played it like a new Dark Souls game. This gave me some pleasure. Many people have had problems with the game controls, which should be taken into account. In short, the game seems a little early released to me. If the optimization issues are fixed with a new update, my max score will be 7.5.
Tagline : "Most overrated Runescape clone, hyped up by people who hate the fact that GTA and Assassin's Creed are popular" What specs you need to run it 60fps - 1080p or 4K, without stutter or lag? - Honest answer is that, no matter how good your PC is, no matter, if you have PS5, this game will perform horribly and only thing you can do is wait for multiple patches. This game goes into same category of games, that have been extremely overhyped and extremely underdelivered. Other examples would be "Cyberpunk 2077", "Fallout 76", "Anthem", "Battlefield 2042" and "Elden Ring" is another fine addition to that list. So what new groundbreaking mechanics, graphics, open world design, innovative combat or interesting story this game offers? - Pretty much none of these. Graphically (for some weird reason) this game goes back to 2012/2013. But 2012/2013 had lots of great games and at times "Elden Ring" even looks beautiful, especially the sky, but ground and grass textures are pretty much worse than some 2013 games. For 2022 AAA release this is bad. Game that gets Metascores 95/97 in 2022, should have way more work put into it. Next up is open world design - There's extreme amount of boring looking, absolutely empty areas. This is automatically bad open world design, because these empty areas, that doesn't even look good have zero purpose to be there. Other areas that actually have something, okay let's make that clear, all that other areas have is trees and monsters. Endless amount of monsters that are simply sitting there, doing nothing, waiting for you to slay them. This is literally Runescape game design 101, i have been playing Runescape since 2004, i know what i'm talking about. Quests (if you can even call them) are extremely short, boring and you can literally ignore all of them. It's usually some lady asking you to go somewhere, get something, get it back to her. Most hilarious thing is that game doesn't show that you have completed any of them, which basically means that by the end of the game, you forget that you even did these. Runescape has more complex lore, quests and writing than this game can only dream of. Why i'm talking about Runescape and not Skyrim, you might ask - Well because lore wise, Skyrim would be too tough challenger for this game. Combat is extremely similar to Dark Souls 3, game that released 6 years ago. Same animations, same everything. Anyone who says in that case that "Innovation is overrated" has no right to criticize Rockstar or Ubisoft ever again, just saying. Anyone who says that having horse is innovative must be a troll, because having this empty open world without any transportation, would be almost insulting. All in all very weak release, only fun i had in this whole game were two boss fights - Margit and Godrick, i have to say they have extremely unfair combos, attacks and they are pointlessly difficult to beat, especially for 2 first bosses, but at least they have some interesting lore and cool monster design. 1 point for beautiful sky design, 1 point for Margit boss design and 1 point for Godrick boss design. Overall score 3/10 - Not recommending, unless you have never played open world game before, but even then, you just could play older open world games that are way better.
Game is a masterpiece. If you're a fan of the Dark Souls trilogy, Bloodborne, or Sekiro you'll feel right at home and notice heavy influence from games like Breath of the Wild.
Only reason I'm not giving this game a 10 is because the Pc Port is buggy and needs improvement, luckily we are in th early days of release so I am hopeful for fixes. As for more game related issues... The story so far is compelling and interesting, it follows the same formula as its Dark Souls predecessors (Player character is tasked with restarting/extending age of some godlike figure/mythos) but the way that the open world has lent itself to exploration and discovery of this story is amazing. NPC interactions are better than ever and the world feels very lived in with details to discover on every end of the map. Like in other FromSoft games guidance is sometimes necessary to discover more minute details but I've come to expect that after playing the games for so long. Elden Ring is an evolution of the FromSoft formula, and I think the extreme hype given to the game has attracted a crowd the unfortunately has not experienced a FromSoft game before and was put off by either its difficulty or inaccessability. All in all though... Review bombers git gud lol. No maidens?
It’s amazing, ignore the other negative reviews, people are review bobbing it because they **** at the game, it’s worth a shot if you like soul like games or want a challenging game that isn’t piss easy
it's a dark souls in an open field with a huge lighted tree in the middle.Graphics are medicore and cutscenes are just drawing cards and there is no voice acting. It wants to combine breath of the wild with dark souls and people should demand evolution to all games even if they are fans of a specific game style.
Good game - IF YOUR A SOULS FAN Great graphics Feels very open and free world Nice horse mechanics The game is overrated. It just is. For Souls fans tho. I get it,it get it. Its a huge improvement and the game have alot of qualities. But overrated ?? HELL YES! And of course "Git gudd" is the only argument that fans will throw at you for not liking it. It just is not a game for everyone OK? And lets face it,there is basicly NO story. It is Breath of the wild with a more mature setting and alot higher difficulty. For many this sounds AMAZING. For me - Not so much. I feel games like Red Dead Redemption 2 or The Last of us 2 are better games than this.
I have about 20 hours in this game so far and I'm nowhere near finished with it but I wanted to go ahead and post a review now because I don't expect my opinion to change much from here on out. A lot of people are complaining about performance but I have been able to smooth my game out and get a consistent 60 fps with very minimal issues just from adjusting all my GPU settings and running in borderless windowed mode. Is it disappointing that From Software doesn't push the boundries with graphics or even attempt to optimize their games to run at 100+ fps? Yes, but do I care .... nope not when they keep putting out quality products. Graphics - feels a little dated but overall still solid - 8/10 Controls - as a soulsbourne fan its got that old familiar feel, nothing wonky, works well - 9/10 Gameplay - its been very challenging and I like the additions of the mount and plenty of checkpoints so you can teleport around with ease. the game has been super enjoyable for me. having a full world to explore within a soulborne game is epic - 10/10 Story - thus far it holds similar to most other From Software games where you need to talk to a lot of npc's and read item descriptions and whatnot to get a good grasp on whats going on, but I find it very interesting so far - 10/10 The game is a lot more polished at release than most titles are these days, even with the few issues with performance here and there. They will patch the issues as we move forward and the game will only get better. A large chunk of the bad reviews are going to be people who experienced performance issues or people who didn't realize what they were getting into. I would NOT recommend this for anyone who couldn't hang in a previous soulsbourne game as its much of the same. For the rest of you, good luck Tarnished.
Masterpiece! This is easily the best game I have played. Everything is perfect
its really strange not a single critic mentioned how buggy this game is & they gave this game perfect 10 fake high scores fooling fans around the world. i think the people who reviewed this game were actually blind or they reviewed different version of this game with zero bugs & problems Dont buy this game right now, save your money . wait a month or two until the annoying bugs are patched. truly disappointed with fromsoftware this time.
lmao at the maidenless scrubs. Yeah the game has 60 fps lock and framerate stutter but it's not enough to ruin the experience. Game is awesome.
'When you've finished your 4th Black Forest gateau - here, have another, and try not to puke' Putting 5-10 hours into this game gave me both a skinking sense of deja-vu and the feeling of forcing myself to eat **** of overly sweet cake. If, like me, you have played this series since Demon's Souls, you will realise Elden Ring is Dark Souls 4. Or Demon's Souls 2 - It doesn't really matter at this point. Other than the *slightly* more open world structure (the 'Souls series was always somewhat open in structure) and Torrent the goathorse, everything is exactly the same as all the previous games, including elements from Bloodborne and Sekiro. Same player classes and animations? Same enemy design, including enemy types/classes? Same pseudo-mediaeval world, with lonely atmosphere? Same dead-eyed, hollow-voiced NPCs? Same controls and combat system? Same telling of the opaque story and world lore through item descriptions? Same, boring, grindy progression system? Same die-and-die-again repetitive gameplay? Enroaching feeling that you are wasting your life playing updates to the same game released well over a decade ago? 'Yes' to all of the above. Mashing together your previous 4 games and adding a horse is in no way innovative or good, by any metric. This is one of the laziest 'masterpieces' I have ever seen. It used to be fun, but its just the same bland thing over and over again. Utterly sickening - i hope you like cake. And then more cake. After a palate cleanser of cake. All washed down with a warm glass of cake, chewed up and regurgitated into a pint glass by Hidetaka Miyazaki.
Even with some slight stutters. 10/10 I have beaten all the other fromsoft games and this is the perfect blend of them
This is probably the best Action RPG I ever played so far, it's challenging, always surprising, artistically stunning, I can't really find any gameplay flaws, it's just a joy to play for hours and hours. Tech wise it has stuttering problems right now at release, but luckily for me I had almost none, it runs at solid 1440p 60fps at Ultra quality with an RTX 3070ti and Ryzen 5 5600x, for the ones who struggle with the game performance don't worry because the developer already confirmed that fixes are coming soon.
Elden ring is a masterpiece, this game is absolutely amazing. anyone leaving a negative review on here is just butthurt that they **** too much at fromsoft games to be able to enjoy it. Currently have 30 hours into the game and have experienced zero lag or stutter issues. People can't complain about the difficulty of the game so they make up a lame excuse to review bomb. This game is legendary.
60 fps lock no ultra-wide support clunky PC menu and keyboard layout Can't keep a perfectly stable 60 fps even on low settings 800x600 (thats when you know its gone too far) Graphics are the same as any other souls game (that just adds to the fact that this game should run on any potato with stable 60 fps and 100/200+ fps on modern machines) i'm glad the community isn't letting pure lazyness on PC ports get through like Critics do, this is a fast reaction time based game, smoothness is fundamental for a nice experience, if console players can't see the frame drops because they already playing on 25 fps with insane amout of motion blur that's not my problem. Souls game are the type of games to have "performance mode" run at 120hz and on PC have settings like Nvidia Reflex (like GOW did). Is it possible to play the game on PC and enjoy it? Yes, after 1.02.1 I'm playing the game normally but I can't make my mind around the fact that we could be getting a much more enjoyable experience, imagine paying 2K$ for a GPU just to get a game with mid-tier graphics lock you at 60 fps and still have drops lol
The actual game content does not match the advertised content!! Locks 60 frames, does not support 21:9, the picture performance is not as good as it should be in 2022 , my God, this is a game that requires high-precision operation, but its input lag is also very serious, the usual game is The keydown triggers the action, and you can rely on your reflexes to operate, but in this game it's the keyup that triggers the action, which is pretty bad.
Don't know what everyone else is complaining about. Game runs fine on my rig. Only performance issues I run into are stuttering here and there and connectivity issues, which will undoubtedly be fixed from From relatively soon. These issues in no way hinder my ability to play and enjoy the game. It's by far the easiest souls-like game in the series. Not that's that's a bad thing, it's just people who say the game is too difficult or the game does have x, y, or z are totally new to games of this nature and bought this game expecting something else. It's the most refined souls game in terms of mechanics. Great game. Highly recommend. So much fun with friends.
I can't speak for the gameplay mechanics as I refunded it on Steam after the first 45 minutes of the game. From a technical standpoint, this is a terrible port. Performance issues galore for a game which looks ok at best, no ultrawide support (come on guys, why must I mod my game to get this enabled?!), but worst of all the control scheme... I found this completely unplayable.
Elden ring is probably the biggest let down in a while with gaming, and it’s once again because critics hype up a bad game. The “open world” is really just closed areas with individual sections for everything that actually happens. It doesn’t feel open world when playing the game. The stuttering is extremely bad and the people who say it is running fine are lying, as I have had multiple friends say it’s fine and then their game will start to freeze. Don’t buy it for the open world, and don’t buy it unless you are a hardcore souls fan.
Solid game, beautiful open world and amazing level design for dungeons and castles, no performance issues for me so far
Can barely get the game running. Much stuttering. Looks great and gameplay seems nice and probably would be a great game. But all of that doesn't matter if i can barely play the game!
You guys are really crybabies . Not gonna lie i have problems from this frame drop but it's not that problematic. I have a low budget PC and still can play really well. The game is amazing. The story is complex and the game is challenging. If you rated this masterpiece 1 or 0 you are a totally TROLL . Souls games are my favorites and I am really a judging person and i can't see something bad in this game. The only problem this game has is you guys that can't get over a small problem and can't wait a little for a patch . This is not Cyberpunk. The game is playable and doesn't have major bugs so maybe GIT GUD!
A big map doesn't make a better game. Uninteresting, bland and boring. Doesn't deserve any of it's perfect scores. Heck, doesn't deserve more than a 6 if you stretch it a lot. The controls are just as bad as the "story" and visuals. The character feels heavy and moves so slow. Feels clunky. Sound was also uninteresting. Nothing sticks to mind. So, a very below average game that was overhyped by possibly one of the most toxic fanbases there are. This kind of game needs to stop being produced.
The game has failures in too many aspects to make it playable, it seems a lie that pages dedicated to analyzing games can overlook these obvious problems if not because they directly charge from the publisher and give the notes without testing the game, hangs, outputs to the desktop, inability to maintain a stable frame rate, pulls for problems when loading areas in the background, control and camera problems
Tried to kill the boss on horseback. Died 20 times. He was angry. Deleted the game. 1 point!
Best souls game yet and so accessible, for someone who's very average at games this is still really fun. Also the art direction is top notch.
This game is neither a magnum opus nor a pile of turd. tldr great game terminal case of consoleitus portus. I would give it a 9 if it weren't for the God awful, Horrific, Actual Crime that is the PC port. Playstation buttons instead of actual controls, i could only figure it out by trial and error since i already knew the DS control scheme. They decided to move the CRUCIAL keys to weird combinations (cough 2 handing) then release the worst PC port i have ever seen I fortunately did not encounter any issues playing on a GPU that's BELOW the requirements, which confused me more than anything. Mechanically the game is DS III but more, neither copying or transcending it's predecessor much. The major change is the open world which makes it far easier to level up for a boss if he is legitimately too difficult, something that DS never dealt with well. I would say, whoever, the people who complain and give it a 0 because they think they have to grind for 20 hours can go Git Gud, since this is a Souls game, and struggle against superior foes is a part of it to attain a sense of achievement. You do not need to 1 shot a boss to kill him. I do admit the game has it's flaws, like the movement/camera feeling dated by now, and torrent being a motorized pile of turds, but they do not overshadow the Souls experience here. The plot in Souls games never really was more than a vague purpose with a lot of disconnected lore, and while the whole "GRRM Made this" was a marketing stunt, the world isn't lacking in detail. It's there for you to draw your own conclusions, like any souls game, but without esoteric item descriptions that don't match their items. It's perfectly serviceable Graphically it's also serviceable since the focus is on gameplay, though i had to admit it looks dated and even DARK SOULS II gives it competition. The style however, saves it, looking distinctly more alive and hopeful than the other Souls games, which were decay at it's best. I would say ELDEN RING made by FromSoftware is a Great Experience if you are already deep into DARK SOULS. For newcomes, the open world makes it easier to do other things than in DARK SOULS where you will face brick wall bosses where you pretend you're a crash test dummy.
This one is easy to analize. If you like souls games, you will love this one, it's like DS1-3, but bigger, open world, with a horse, and better graphics. If you don't like Souls games, this one won't change your mind. Yes, it a bit more accesible, it has more save points, like before bosses, fast travel. That's all good. But the gameplay is the same as in the DS and Demon's Souls games, it's still quite clunky, it feels like a game from 10 years ago. It's not like Sekiro that was fast, precise, fluid. Finally, the PC port is not good enough. It has slowdowns even in the best of computers, like mine. So, if you love Dark Souls, get this one, you know already, but get a console version if you can. If you don't like them or know what they are, stay away.
I would give this game a solid 10 if the PC port weren't this bad. No ultrawide support and 60 fps lock is just not acceptable anymore. It's even more enraging, because the game actually renders perfectly in uw resolutions, but they artificially block the already rendered 21:9 view with an overlay of black bars that forces a 16:9 look. Behind those bars the GPU ist still rendering in uw. It's just unbelievable that they downgrade their own game on purpose. After playing Dark Souls Remastered, that was developed by a third party studio (QLOC) and had native ultrawide support, I can't belive that FS did again such a horrible job with the PC version. Game itself is a masterpiece and I will edit this rating to a 10 if they patch out this overlay to let people play in common uw resolutions.
Games have never been as adventurous as this one. The breadth and depth of Elden Ring's world in incomparable with anything else. Plus the gameplay, while challenging, is a blast. FYI, I thought Dark Souls was a tedious chore. Elden Ring, whilst on the surface not that different, somehow is the opposite. By the way, I have a decent but not great laptop and the game runs super-smoothly on high graphics-settings. No complaints at all actually. I'm lucky I guess, it's a shame lots of pc-players do encounter perfomance issues. Personally this is a masterpiece, a 10. The widespread issues make it a 9.
The hype was pretty much justified. Yes, it has its problems right now on PC, which i hadn't noticed that obviously, so for me this factor had 0 influence. It's a beatiful, handcrafted open world in all traditions of Soulsborne series, towards which i am totally BIAS'd and will enjoy every second playing it for years on.
Hey, I'm writing this review because I have played the CNT, so I know it's a great game, at the moment I have 20 hours in the game and it's just fantastic. I don't know how people are having problems I myself have an old PC I don't meet the minimum requirements at all (GTX 970 GPU, and 4th generation Intel I5 CPU) but I am still able to play on high graphics settings and just have long loading times but that probably because of my PC. What I did to change is this: In-Game: I turned all of these to either off or to the lowest I could get. (Thanks to na1s in another review) - Depth of Field - Motion Blur - Volumetric Quality - Global Illumination Quality - Grass Quality Out of Game: (Thanks to GeeSung for putting all of these in a review.) Exit the game. Go to your windows bar and search "graphics". Click on "Graphics Settings". Choose the desktop app and click "browse". Search through your drive for the **** and set the options to "High performance". Start the game. For increased frame rate: just set the global "Shader Cache Size" setting in NVIDIA Control Panel to "Unlimited": ****/wm4y2GU.jpeg -credit u/bobasaurus (Edit: The slow loading times was just because I didn't have my GPU drivers updated.) I hope this works for most of you (it may be different for people who have AMD).
For the gameplay 9/10 but for performance on PC i play on RTX 2060 i think is enough for play this game but many stuttering on the scene and when i fight
-No arabic language -Bad performance -Drop frames -Crashes -60 frame cap -Bad graphics +great gameplay +Good story +Graet open world
Now over 40 hours into the PC release and this game is a BANGER, This is the perfect Skyrim meets Dark Souls. You get that open world and exploration of Skyrim but you get the methodical and meaty gameplay the souls series is known for. In Elden Ring FromSoft definitely cranked the difficulty meter up to an 11, some bosses taking 20+ attempts but I always feel like each death is a learning experience, luckily FromSoft was nice enough to give us very close spawn points to many of the bosses. Some of the smaller optional dungeons are interesting, the early one not posing much of a challenge but the later ones have some very cool unique bosses. Speaking of bosses, I love the design for so many of the new bosses, the combination of delayed and quick attacks really keeps you on your toes. Now, the game isn't perfect. The most notable issue if the frame drops reported by many on PC and I've had some connection issues when in other players worlds. But these are very MINOR problems that will probably be patched with the net week or two, so I wouldn't let it deter you from buying the game (or rate it a 0/10 like a lot of people). Overall, Elden Ring is a great game. There is so much to explore and so many unique bosses you can encounter in the game that will provide you with plenty of challenge on your way to becoming the Elden Lord. "But it's just Darks Souls with horse and jump button!" I fail to see the problem here.
Great game, so many things to find and discover, map overwhelmingly huge, big areas, dungeons, small areas, fights ruthless, extremly fast and hard, noobs beware, summons are for garbage players accessibility (easy mode), many nude mods incoming, graphics 2029 level, performance on par with today standard probably better. In all honesty though i really wish more people could understand the true meaning of these games, they go incredibly deep once you start paying attention to what in other games is considered minor detail, that is why they are held in such high regard by fans like myself. It's very rewarding when you are devoted to it. It's hard to get into it but once you do it's hard to let go. would finger but hole.
Absolute Peak of From Software games. The sheer amount of content available for the player to explore is absurd.
My mind is blown at the negative reviews. To me the game works just great on PC, and I'm playing in a laptop. The game is incredibly amazing, the best game I've ever played. Rating a game a 0 because it doesn't support... ultrawide or whatever... that's a technical aspect that I don't care about, and it doesn't speak of the greatness of this game. This game is an 11, if I could give it. I hope the trolls giving the game a 0 get overwhelmed or balanced out soon by the 10 scores. They are just little kids shouting at a game because it doesn't run at constant 144 FPS and at ultra wide 4k screens... just stop crying and enjoy the game. Or buy GTA or Call of Duty if this is what you want. This is the best video game of the 2020s no doubt. And also best open world. This is leagues ahead of Breath on the Wild or even Dark Souls. Buy this now and play the hell out of it
First thank you FS for this masterpiece. 5700XT / Ryzen 5 3600X Stable 60 fps on maximum settings @1440p. 2-3 framedrops to 40 fps for 3 seconds in 35 hours. Awesome Graphics, stunning gameplay, incredible atmosphere and a perfect open world. No game since Skyrim is able to competete with Elden Ring. The world is full of storys and exploring never feels unneccessary like in RDR2. Almost everywhere is something to make you char stronger. There are so many mysteries to solve and of course epic bossfights with legendary loot. They said 80 hours to complete the game, but after 35 hours i'm still far away from an end. I love games where you need to work for your victorys. Enjoy the journey!
Was all hyped for this even tho not a huge fan of Soul gameplay due animation locks and overall not smooth at all. I was hyped because love the atmosphere, the setting and the audio of this game as I loved and still love Berserk. My vote is 0 though, it's 2022 and having a PC release of a triple A game with 60 fps and 16:9 cap with stuttering and easycheat engine is absolutely terror. FWS (flaweless widescreen) saved the game but it's insane we have to rely on modders to play this game the proper way. Learn from your mistakes, best wishes.
This game is totally overrated. character animations are like wood. gaming media gave this game a high rating for money. I definitely do not recommend this game.
RTX 3080 Ryzen 5 5600x 32gb Ram Its finally here and it's the worst pc port fromsoft has made to date, I really can't believe after all these years they can't get a decent port going for pc. The stutter was minor for my first few hours but after that once I came upon a group of enemies or a boss it would stutter every 5 seconds or so, some times it stutters alot but other times it doesn't stutter for like an hour or so. Either way the gameplay is good and the map is great but no use having such good features if you can't even run your game.
When this game released, a lot of us have been met with a rocky launch due to performance issues. So my first hours of playtime were spent optimizing, trying out different settings both in-game and out. After a while, I decided to live with the frame drops and dive straight into it. Now, 27 hours into the game, I can say with confidence that this is one of the best games I've ever played. The amount of exploration, variety, NPC questlines, boss fights, mobs and dungeons is astonishing. Legacy dungeons are some of the best Fromsoftware has to offer and will go down in history as some of the most memorable dungeons in gaming. There is a ton of choice in combat with many weapons and viable playstyles. Mounted combat, stealth and jumping attacks add extra layers of depth to the good old souls combat formula. All in all an enticing experience, wrapped in a beautifully crafted open world that feels much less like a checklist and offers a lot of freedom in organic gameplay approach. A 10/10 should be used on extremely rare occassions, but is without a doubt justified in this game.
I bought the game for arabic language, You have said there is arabic language then it’s a lie
It's fine. I'd like to see less open world and more dungeons. Give me a big sprawling dungeon, or an open world undead parish with multiple routes. Also some of the bosses are incredibly unfair/based off of new gimmicks (mainly riding) and leveling, rather than skill. YOU spend the eight hours beating Ulcerated Tree Spirit without leveling, potentially the second boss you can run into. The first fight is also like ten times harder than Vangard Demon in DsS. Also some of the open boss fights may put the enemy in unfair positions during attack animations, and make something potentially undodgeable (mainly the dragon so far, though sometimes the knight bosses) Anyway, my feelings are complicated. I'd almost say it is a misguided effort, some of the new features aren't very useful or fleshed/thought out, however the gameplay works much better than it has any right to, certainly better than what happened with BOTW. I'm giving it a 10 because the user reviews here are insane.
For soulsborne fans, especially dark souls 3 fans. This is great new expirience where you get to feel the empowered when the bosses moveset finally clicks and you kill the boss that you have been dying to for too long. For people that are new to the franchise, don’t give up.
One of the best games ever made and a prime example that, in today's spineless society, people will complain about anything.
Lock frame rate at 35 in graphics card setting. Result: cinematic picture, no lags and smooth gameplay. I think that in the near future no game will reach this level. The gameplay and level design is top notch. Developers should be proud of themselves.
One of the best games of all time. Best open world in terms of freedom and exploration since Skyrim.
Combat is best class. Enemy designs are outstanding. Artistic direction is top notch. This game is truly a Masterpiece! Some people experienced FPS drops but I didn’t experience any.
Game is a masterpiece, but it's a terrific port for PC, for frame rate but especially for not showing the key binds for keyboard and mouse, you have to figure out the controls just trying. From software has been very lazy.
Awesome experience, awesome world and awesome game. From soft finally perfected the souls formula and I don’t get why there are so many bad reviews, sure it is hard and the game doesn’t shoves the story in your face but this game is about the challenge and not about running through a game which does everything for you.
Elden Ring is a culmination of the mechanics presented in the souls games, bloodborne, and sekiro, all wrapped up in a depressing high-fantasy open world. The Good -While some optional side-bosses can be pushovers, the main bosses are well designed, intense, and challenging. Finding brief moments to breathe or windows to punish within the bosses flurry of blows are all the more rewarding, and victory is as exhilarating as ever. -The art design continuously inspires moments of awe, disgust, and morbid fascination. The player will witness abominations with grafted limbs and tree roots absorbing dozens of corpses as food, but in the same minute, will emerge to see a beautiful overview of vast, twisted landscapes of golden trees, spiraling castles, misted swamps, and beckoning ruins. -Progression blocks are non-existent, as paths are innumerable. If a player cannot beat a boss, they can excuse themselves to explore dungeons and ruins scattered across the world, where they will discover upgrades, gain experience, and continuously grow stronger until they are up for the challenge. The entire map can be explored from the beginning. -Magic is more beautiful and satisfying than ever. The variety of spells at a players disposal has grown greatly. Miracles and Sorcery have received the biggest visual buff in this iteration by far and hit as hard as they look. -Swordplay has been made more diverse and interesting. Players can discover ashes of war, special weapon skills, throughout the world. These not only affect the weapon scaling, but allow the player to customize weapons to their playstyle. Hold your dagger to the sky and buff yourself and your friends. Quickdraw greatswords like katanas. Call down bolts of lightning with your warhammer. Experiment to your hearts content. More Good: QOL Open World Features. This open world game respects your time. -Points of Grace, the checkpoints of Elden Ring, offer a fast travel system immediately with no cost or consequence. -Stakes of Marika exist right next to nearly all challenging areas and bosses. When the player dies, they may choose to teleport to these Stakes instead of Points of Grace, allowing them to avoid wasting time repetitively traversing the same long path and re-challenge the boss or encounter immediately. -The player receives their horse in an hour or less. The horse can be summoned anywhere in the open world from an item on the players belt, can double jump, and can be ridden in combat. -There is no stamina loss outside of combat. Infinite sprinting and jumping while traveling from point to point. -Crafting can be done on the go, anywhere, anytime out of combat. This includes arrows, bombs, consumable buffs, and elemental weapon buffs. No special stations needed. -Basic materials are abundant, plentiful, and respawn on rest. -Tears, the health and mana potions of Elden Ring, refresh on enemy pack kills. Players can seek out enemies to replenish their health instead of resting. Nitpicks -Certain enemies were directly ported from Dark Souls 3. The infamously annoying Thralls from Dark souls 3 have been reskinned as stout imp gargoyles that populate various catacombs and caves throughout Limgrave with zero changes to their move-sets. The giant crabs also reappear from the previous title with zero changes to their move-set. It would have been cool to see the developers renovate these enemies a little to make them distinguishable from previous iterations. -I would have liked if the horse controls were tighter. The horse cannot turn a sharp angle without first moving forward, meaning the player cannot turn the horse around on a narrow platform without walking off the edge. Certain jump puzzles are also an unnecessary headache for this reason. -The developers laid it on a little thick with the difficult encounters right from the beginning. While I personally love throwing myself at a difficult boss until I can overcome it, players unfamiliar with the souls genre that encounter the Tree Sentinel or Dragon just a stones throw away from the tutorial are in for a jarring experience. -While I find many performance issues to be overblown at the time of writing this, they aren't non-existent. While in confined areas, the frame rate is completely stable. While in the open world, however, the frames will often dip into the 40's or 30's. This will hopefully be improved with further patches, but it would have done the game justice if optimization was up to a better quality before release. -Players cannot ride horses while in coop. They are also confined to whichever area they have been summoned to, and coop is dissolved once a boss has been beaten. While this is not new to the souls genre, it's a little strange when implemented in the open world, as field bosses are often not too far apart from one another. All in all, I cannot stop playing this game.
Elden Ring.... Its a mesmerising and fantastical, fantasy world, ready to explore! BUT **** not what it seems!...repetitive landscapes, cant climb, water looks like its from Minecraft and you cant swim in it! Oh and Pc controls are a massive pain in the butt!... having to hit G for the map key because it wont bind to another key just highlight some of the ridiculous and lazy issues that really shouldn't exist with these AAA games!..supposedly made for multiple platforms! Reminds me of the usual PC port goofiness that the other Souls games all suffered with, so I kinda expected some issues, but not as bad as this. This game like so many these days has been designed for consoles..with a slightly raised two fingered gesture to PC owners! So not off to a good start with the lack of keyboard configuration options. On a positive note, it runs and looks cool-ish in 4k ON A 48in LG OLED 120htz screen, though it needs an i9-10900k, 64gb ram and RTX 3090 to achieve that! Though weirdly its still got a 60fps cap in the PC version, just like the consoles! That's just **** fact there is mod out after a day to bypass this, asks the question, why couldn't the developers have offered that option too? Ive only put just a few hrs into the game so **** one thing ive noticed and its already really, REALLY starting to irritate me! Its just too damn **** a painful and irritating grind!!! I like a bit of a challenge, am used to setting any difficulty level at the start to accommodate my ability and style of play, but this game has no difficulty settings, just its one level = NIGHTMARE! Its starting to take the fun out of an otherwise amazing experience. Its also a bit repetitive and boring... enemies scattered about as if its a chess game, just placed willy nilly by whoever programmed it!, wolves spawning from the sky in front of you! wow its just ridiculous! and other weird creatures all just waiting till you get within their attack **** forget stealth, its almost non existent, so creeping about is a pointless exercise and option. Their is no real AI, just animals and enemies scattered about the landscape with their own specified attack radius, step inside that radius, they come at you, step outside it again by running away, they stop. I think Skyrims AI is better! And that game is 11 years old! I initially and overexcitedly gave this game a **** am afraid the lack of PC controls with irritating binding issues, coupled with the game destroying insane fixed difficulty **** more than a **** a painful and self torturing experience to even want to push on after dying so many **** save options, just respawn back at your last 'grace' location which could be 30-40 mins of gameplay behind you! wasted!....Like i said before, the difficulty just feels like its set to nightmare, especially after a few hours in, the fact it cant be changed is a complete game breaker for me! Its just making me want to stop playing it. Such a shame the gameplay is repetitive and grinding, because the artistic creativity and amazing buildings/creatures in Elden Ring is a work of pure art! This game could of been great...lets leave it at that.
The year is 2022. - 20FPS dips on a 12900K, 64GB DDR5 RAM, PCIE 4.0 M.2 and an RTX 3090 - No ultrawide support - 60FPS cap - Defended to the death by souls fans and I'm not even complaining about the difficulty... No excuse to not support those things when I can fire up indie games from 10 years ago and they do.
Probably one of the best game ever. Never mind the haters; they are probably noobs that do not have the skill to handle this game.
Amazing game, only had minor stutters and not very often. The world is beautiful and the enemies are amazing and a good variety
Git gud. Good graphics Good weapons Good story Good characters Monke aprove
The game os simply overwhelming, FromSoftware is again elevating the concept
After getting so angry reading the dumb 0 and 1 star reviews, I made an account to share an honest opinion about the game. Here are my responses to the common complaints. PC Performance. I have had very moderate frame rate drops into the 30-40 fps range. This only happens in the open world, and only when moving between large sections. So this happens about 2% of the time during my 4-5 hour sessions. The game runs perfectly otherwise. No ultra wide support. This has to be the dumbest reason to give a 0 score. I could see this knocking one or two points for an average reviewer, but to give this game a 0 because there is no ultra wide support is ridiculous. Playing in 4K on a 55” OLED TV is absolutely amazing. Empty world / boring / no story. There is an absolutely amazing story being told in Elden Ring. From the start, you are encouraged to become essentially the queen/king of the Lands Between. The voice acting is genuine. The atmosphere and environment is very encapsulating. Conclusion: I’m only 16 hours in and feel like I have scratched the surface of what the story is and what powers/weapons I will find. I feel like I’m playing Ocarina of Time all over again. The story there wasn’t obvious from the very beginning, and neither is it here. Just like many other open world games, until you start leveling / finding new items / and gaining new powers, you have yet to see what the game truly offers. Absolutely 10/10. In a day where over saturated (DL2, Horizon FW) open world games are still being made, Elden Ring is a breath of fresh air that allows you to discover the world and have fun, just like the Legend of Zelda series has.
A positive evolving of Dark Souls franchis, but still not suitable for everyone. I'll give a 10 out of 10, only if FromSoftware were able to fix the input lag and framerate issues.
Best souls game to date, this is a combine of all previous games with New mechanics that make the formula better
Really great so far. I don't really have any technical issue but i can't sleep playing this game, masterpiece indeed, theres always something new to discover, and boss fight? get me going all day.
ANYONE WHO RATED THIS GAME A 0 EITHER HAS A GARBAGE PC, OR THEYRE TRASH AT CHALLENGING GAMES. This game is legit Breath of the Wild exploration with the best combat in any game ever. 1000/10 game. Perfect.
no Russian or Ukrainian voice acting, no support for ultra-wide resolution 5120x1440 to 32:9 format
The game is super satisfying with it's two sided game-play loop of exploring a beautiful world and then finding and fighting cool monsters. It's so easy to just explore to your hearts content. Ignoring the main story path and without beating Godrick or exploring Stormveil Castle I managed to explore all the way from Dragon Barrow to Mt. Gelmir on the other side of the map.
I understand people complaining about the difficulty curve. I was actually hesitant about purchasing Elden Ring because of the same thing. Last souls game I truly enjoyed was demon souls, since then I lost patience to really learn the mechanics. That said I found Elden Ring significantly easier, just dodge a lot and you're good. I am 70 hours in and still havent bothered with parrying, just dodge. I would actually compare this to Breath of the Wild, also a higher difficulty curve, but the fun of the game is the exploration and just going wherever you want, there is a sort of structure to follow, but like BotW you actually should do a lot of other things before hitting the main points. And because I chose to just explore, I didnt have to grind any mobs or cheese my way to level up, I just naturally was the level I should be. On to story. The story is actually quite good, I wouldnt say A Song of Ice and Fire storytelling good, but it kept me interested. The way story telling is done is what I enjoyed. In a normal rpg I may skip past the dialogue of a random npc to save time. In Elden Ring, every random npc is the story progression. So you will get bits and pieces as you play, and without an intended order of receiving those pieces. I never felt lost or confused, and every new person, faction, and secret region I discovered taught me so much more about the world and its inhabitants in a meaningful way. In conclusion, Elden Ring isnt a typical rpg, if you want the next Elder Scrolls this isnt it. However if you want a dark grimy world that has a surprising amount of beauty and are willing to put in some time to struggle in some areas but persevere then Elden Ring may be a good fit for you. Watch a youtube video or 2 before purchasing anything.
Full of bugs, gameplay is meh. even cyberpunk was better and worked better.
A cheap reskinned Dark Souls suffering from extreme consolitis and Cyberpunkism. The paid shill reviews are plain laughable. Not even worth peerating.
CHOO CHOO, HYPE TRAIN HAS LEFT THE STATION. All the controls are shown as console buttons, makes it extremely confusing on PC. It was also heavily advertised as a co-op game but it took an hour to figure out how to gather the supplies needed for co-op. After joining with a friend, he kept dying which disconnects him from the co-op server. This means you're also forced to reset and die and have to find each other again. On top of that, the whole time my friend was just lagging and flying everywhere. Basically co-op is impossible in this game and there's no way I'm playing this pos by myself. Save your money and play something else.
It's like if Cat Mario was the only Mario game, sure some people have the time to die over and over again, but that's just not how the modern gaming works, give us normal mario. Big monster dodge-and-roll games have been done before. It's based on archaic outdated game design. Give us something new and innovative. Elden Ring does nothing to improve upon similar games, besides a minor graphics refresh. Just like COD and FIFA. Ask yourself - Is the game actually fun to play or is it just fun to finally kill the big monster after dying 100 times? If 90% of the game isn't fun, it's not fun. Is it too much to ask to be having fun for most of the time while playing? The gaming industry is a lot bigger and more accessable than when previous difficult games were released. Game reviewers need to take that into consideration, niche millennial games deserve low scores, or at the very least a very clear warning that it's probably not worth playing unless you've played previous Souls-like games. Plus all the menus, interfaces, and controls are counter-intuitive and awful. Have they played any popular modern game? They should be getting low scores for the controls alone - Space should be jump, Shift should be Run, C or CTRL should be Crouch, M should be Map, and TAB should be for regularly used menu items. Just admit that you want to play more dark souls, don't pretend it's a good game worthy of new players picking it up.
Elden Ring has to be the most overrated piece of crap I have ever seen in my life. This game is garbage in every way: Graphics, Combat, Story, Physic, Music, Frame rate, Enemy design and so on. Even so, IGN and metacritic give it 10/10 and 95/100 lmao. At this point game journalist are a joke. I can't believe that Elden ring devlopers are those who made the legendary game Sekiro.
I bought this on PC with a GeForce RTX 3070 gpu and i9 cpu. Your mileage may vary, but I have ahd very few technical problems with the game (1 crash in 16 hours of playtime, had trouble summoning other players in a large non-legacy dungeon last night). Overall, I am stunned by how richly detailed From Software made a world this big. It is ana bsolute joy to play. I have avoided spoilers up to this point and suggest you do as well.
The game is a masterpiece, the optimization is its downfall which will hopefully be fixed.
This is the ultimate game of all time. This is not an exaggeration it's undisputed fact.
This game is absolutely fantastic in every way but one: the PC performance is quite bad. I can live with a 60fps cap, but the frequent stutters really sour the experience. I've been able to really enjoy the game despite the severe optimization issues, but I'm really disappointed in From Software for releasing the game like this
The game is great if you're not severely effected by a variety of problems. Nobody is affected by all of the problems, but everyone typically has at least something that affects them. Most common is that the game dumps and loads areas as fast as possible which tanks performance briefly. You can probably find the invisible triggers for the loading of areas with trial and error. Another common one is that the game might run fine on high-end hardware for some people, but then run terribly for others because of something going on with the computer's priority settings. Though I suppose it goes without saying that "Vocal Minority" of course exists with common complaints about Ultrawide support... when Ultrawide is a minority within a minority. Regardless there's a mod that fixes it apparently, which begs the question as to why it's just not default in the game? But the anticheat doesn't like the mod I guess so no multiplayer.
Almost perfect game, leveling system feels weird compared to other souls games but amazing game overall. Beautiful world, fun enemies, and amazing bosses
The combination of sloulsborne & Sekiro gameplay is such a experience that's feels something like playing Dark Souls for the first time. Making it an open world also is such a experience in this game. It's ain't RDR2 levels of open world, but it's fitting for this game. The only thing I have a problem with is the enemies kinda loose sight of you really quickly even though I'm in their line of sight. Some mini bosses have a couple of exploits, but it's not new in these types of games.
I go with the logical… if Horizon Forbidden West isn’t a 10, there is no way this game should be a perfect one….!
If you’re a fan of high fantasy, open world rpgs and the soulsbourne genre, then this is the game of your dreams. The world & character design is amazing. The scale of the world, the density, the verticality are incredible. There’s nothing else like it. Ignore the trolls reviews binging this game, it’s a masterpiece.
So i played all the souls game at the dawn of time (yes, the original dark souls 1 and 2—pre-release of SoTFS, dark souls 3, original demon souls, and slightly bit of bloodborne at my friend 's house since i don't have a ps4 and is a pc geek after i sold my ps3). I haven't play Sekiro **** any sooner in the future. You could say, i am a "huge souls-game enthusiastic—excluding the sekiro part, i am not huge fan of samurai, ninja themed", and since then very few game that could satisfy me like these game did. Elden Ring, however, managed to do it, and đó live up to the hype. The Major point is, the game's a mixture of Skyrim and Witcher, which's not a bad thing to start off (those who said, it's not creativity in 2022, it's not original in 2022,...blablabla is literally braindead and ignorant of how they see things. Like, every literature-part that was put in the gaming industry—excluding gears ofc, is a copy cat of each others from the start, so shut the **** up). However, it's more likely skyrim than witcher, the amount of freedom you get from Elden Ring is incredible, you can literally do anything—well not exactly anything, but roam freely to anywhere on the map, randomly encounter everything in the game, while keeping the challenge-core part intact, like many of its predecessors. Yes, these hardcore challenge + open world mechanism had made the game unplayable by some people—and the game is 100% quest free no pin point or glue to find but using senses, you can keep your opinion on it. But judging the game by not having stories, not having,.... and is boyscotting a certain game, is literal braindead. About the game's main problem, stuttering and fps dropdown, i just don't think it's a problem since i am playing it on an x o s series then compare it to my pc, consoles ported games sometime have problems and it's fine to have it if it was minor, not some critical damage to the device which run it lol, probably all the huge scores came from consoles (critics).
The game is a complete masterpiece, excellent gameplay and graphics, large open world and full of details, the only complaint is in fact the bad optimization that results in frequent Fps drops. Easily the GOTY of 2022.
Negatives: Terrible PC Port (can't navigate the UI/menu without both keyboard and a controller - wtf) Gameplay is so overrated (good if you like that console lock onto an enemy style of fighting) Capped at 60fps The game shows the xbox controller only in game (press Y). No ultrawide support Terrible stuttering (it's like the rev limiter keeps bouncing off the 60fps cap and then major drops for no reason) - this is critical in a game like this which is difficult and requires accurate timing. Even when the game is running at 60 it feels like it is 30fps i don't know why. DRM issues Positives Lots of content / huge game. Maybe something like major stuttering could be patched. On the whole it's nice to have a game which has a lot of content, but for me the PC port is unforgiveable. It is obvious the PC was not a consideration when developing the game. If you like Dark Souls get it on a console.
Don't listen to all these complainers. Yes, this game is taxing on the machine but if you have a decent one you're in good shape. What did you expect. Other than that here are the facts: 1) Enjoyment: It's incredible and fun. All the best aspects pulled into one 2) Graphics: Gorgeous. I understand if your rig can't play at max then lower the settings 3) Sounds: Music and effects are great This is an instant classic. Don't fill your head with everything people are saying and just try for yourself
As a huge fan of Fromsoftware who has played every single release since PS3 demon souls i can no longer call myself a fan of this developer. They have dropped the ball on the PC port more than CD Project red has with Cyberpunk when it comes to performance and optimization. Horrendous stuttering, FPS ranges between 20-40 on a machine that should be able to keep a steady 60 at least, awful glitches with enemies, npcs, and Torrent the mount flickering in and out of existence, and texture popping in and out as they load. Meanwhile the games journalists call this trainwreck of a PC port a master piece. Not to mention the last minute DRM/anti-cheat that was added due to the hackers in DAS3 a month before release. I have nothing to comment on gameplay itself since i dropped it due to it being completely unbearable, imagine having healthbars attacking you out of nowhere while you riding an invisible mount at 20 fps, how is that enjoyable? Shame on Fromsoftware for screwing over its fanbase and releasing a game at its current state.
Was a horrible experience with multiple crashes, a lazy system in menu using controller prompts instead of keys it just felt like a very poor port. The FPS went to 1-5 alot of times during boss fights and even some standard battles. NO ultrawide support. Don't believe all the "Professional" reviewers who were paid for their opinion or the fan boys who were so AWE STRUK by another soul's clone that they needed to occupy their time. Completely unacceptable.
FEEL - Could be the best game I have ever played - never played dark souls and just started sekiro a week before elden ring release- so im learning and it is an incredible experience. Around 20 hours in, the closest I have ever felt to this was in the 3rd grade when mario64 came out and I couldnt put it down, it was just so unbelievable to me at the time, and that is how elden ring feels to me now. WORLD/DESIGNS/COMPARISONS - morrowind, oblivion, skyrim, witcher 3 have all been incredible games of a similar type that ive played and elden ring is in its own tier above them and unbelievable in comparison - the combat and in game systems are incredible, the open world is the best open world experience I have ever had - the scale, the secrets, the detail, the art style, the adventure and exploration.... you can tell this world is handcrafted. The level design in the first legacy dungeon is the best level i have ever seen in a game (verticality, hidden secrets, aesthetics, scale, enemies, stealth). The lack of in game systems to aid players is one of my favorite aspects - you have to learn on your own, I am very much a self learner though. OPTIMIZATION/PERFORMANCE/CONTROLS - I spent some time optimizing my PC beforehand - tweaking various setting in windows/nvidia/mouse cpi and in game controls (mouse sensitivity after first patch) to make sure I would run it fine. I could use my controller and it might be more intuitive than the mouse keyboard, but honestly ive gotten used to the mouse and keyboard and it feels fine. I'm playing in the high graphics setting and FPS is 57-60. I don't really notice any issues with the prep I did beforehand. Graphics are breathtaking and beautiful, the ray tracing is amazing. Also of note - I have not experienced any noticeable bugs in the game - it already feels very polished to me. If you understand PC's and know how to change settings on your PC and not just in game, or are capable of learning how to and are above minimum requirements to play the game, I don't see how you could not achieve desirable performance running the game. CHARACTER - im not typically a spell caster in rpg games i typically go ranger types, but here i went astrologer and magic is incredibly fun! although I cant wait to play numerous others character builds at some point - the customization feels like a sandbox. ALL in all, this game isnt for everyone - but if you are ready in your life for a true adventure and put the effort and time forward to learn and explore - it will give you the time of your life.
The game is an absolute must play, 10/10, im playing on pc with a GTX1080, Ryzen 5600x, 32gb ram, at 1440p, ive had barely any issues, 2 crashes to desktop in 40 hours played, no progress lost, so a minor inconvenience at worst. Slight frame drops in some areas but nothing that severaly impacts your enjoyment.
Immense, absolutely full of attention and detail on every corner. Its Dark Souls open world, its crazy to think about the fact I'm playing this game masterpiece. Its unreal. Too bad the performance on PC lacks some polish, but in the long term, I already know this will be another eternal classic. Well done FromSoftware, well done!
The best work that people all over the world should play. It's so funny that I forget the passage of time. Games in this studio are always genius.
I wont go into the obvious PC issues that have already been mentioned numerous times. I'm sure most of these will be patched eventually. If you like Dark Souls games, which I do enjoy, then Elden Ring is like Dark Souls on steroids.. It borrows soo much from the Dark Souls series, I'm thinking they should of named it Dark Souls IV. That's where my issue with the game comes in. I do like the Dark Souls series, however with George R.R. Martin writing for this game, I was expecting a story rich adventure, in the world of a new franchise. Elden Ring does not feel like that new franchise offering a new experience which I had high hopes for. It's an ok game, but doesn't offer anything original. If you want to play Dark Souls 4 then you'll love Elden Ring. If you are expecting an original experience to immerse yourself in the writings of George R.R. Martin. Then I recommend passing on this game, or wait for a sale.
This game is a 9,9 game which will be a 10,0 when the next patches to fix more performance come out. For me it runs smoothly and I think wide screen support would give unfair advantages in pvp due to the fov. This game is definitely phenomenal below the surface of issues many other users were pointing out like missing wide screen support and performance issues. I don't think it's fair to rate a game as poor as 0/10 for just one or two issues, even if it's unplayable for a certain amount of time, it'll soon be and you will definitely enjoy it. It's not fair to rate a game poorly for only one or two issues.
Lots of performance issues, it makes the game feel off compared to the console versions.
One of the worst PC ports possible. Disgrace to see Critics give almost unplayable game these scores. Elden Ring gets 0 on PC. Critics get -100 for their obvious bias and probably paid for reviews.
Easy GOTY! Runs perfect for me and most immersive addicting game I have played in years. Game is a vibe!
Do not buy if you play keyboard and mouse. All the input prompts are designed for an xbox controller style input. Finding the keyboard key that is mapped to the action for the button it's indicating will not work, leaving it impossible to complete some actions. In addition invisible enemies, stuttering, and input lag on the keyboard and mouse (may be a result of stuttering? idk) make this EXTREMELY frustrating to play. I'm playing on a 5950x w/ 64 gigs of ram and a 3080. I shouldn't have any stuttering so it's obviously some issue. Maybe it'll be patched complete one day. It's not as disappointing as cyberpunk was on launch, as long as you want to play with a gamepad. if you really want to play this game get it on console or wait for a sale/massive patching.
I don't ever give a zero on Metacritic, but I am for Elden Ring cause the game won't even launch if you use a controller. If you disable xbox controller configs and Steam input, then the game will launch, but hitting any controller button merits no response from the game. When you then swap to a keyboard, the game will permanently display controller buttons instead of keyboard keys, so you have no clue how to do anything. There's no fix. Having watched my fiance play it gives me more complaints. The game will often drop to the single digit framerates when you get too close to the border of a new major area of the open world and it will certainly end in your demise if you happen to be in a fight at the time. The PC the happens on is using an RTX 3090 and a Ryzen 5050X, so you can't blame the hardware. It's a well know problem that you can find via any google search from the very first result. Even bing finds it. Furthermore the story is bland and has been used by dozens of other games and the character names are so bad they make me cringe. This is nothing but a reskinned, partially replaced 3d model clone of Demon's Souls on PS3, just like every other souls game. There's nothing special about it and it doesn't even remotely deserve a score like metacritic gives it even when it's working. This is a huge slap in the face to the truly great games who have upper 90s score, like the Legend of Zelda Breath of the Wild, Ocarina of Time, and others. I strongly suspect bribes went into this as well as a societal obsession with George RR Martin who only gets notoriety for managing to get full nudity and sex a dozens times per episode onto HBO. I suppose it saves on porn subscriptions. Personally, I'll choose the latter option any day. Porn stories are somehow less cringeworthy than Elden Ring's story and I could never in my life have imagined saying any story is worse than C-list porn.
I find it hilarious tht I am forced to give a 10/10 to a game tht I havent even finished because of the reviewbombing of ppl tht did not also finish the game, tht dont even own the game and are salty because a game genre they dont like is being successful, and performance issues malders. Performance isnt good but its not unplayable to the point of giving a game 0. Funny how for one time in your life you should actually listen to some game journos and not the community which is appalling. This is like the situation where italians would reviewbomb games a 0 because they didnt have italian dubs. My thoughts having 12hours in and defeating the first two main bosses are tht the story seems pretty interesting like any other souls game, the combat when the game runs smoothly is really great especially with the new weapon arts, open world is somewhat empty... and thts someone who hasnt played the game would tell you. I dont want to spoil the open world but there is a lot to uncover in it trust me. Bosses are AMAZING. World design is great graphics arent tht good just a bit of a step up from ds3 and the performance isnt good. When you load into areas the frame does drop in pretty much every pc which is smthing tht needs a fix. If you like any souls game you should absolutely get this one. Let the haters, which unfortunately exist for this game, cope harder and just enjoy yourself its a really good game so far.
I honestly don't care about the lack of ultrawide support, locked FPS, and I didn't make it far enough into the game to experience the stutter everyone is talking about, which I am confident I could ignore for the most part. In fact, I only made it as far as the main menu screen - several times in fact. Why? Because the devs couldn't do a basic thing that most others have figured out decades ago: controller support for PC games. Seriously, what is this disgrace? Not only did my PS4 controller not work on steam by itself (tried big picture mode and enabled the configuration in settings as well, still no response in game), but even after I installed DS4Windows and got it to work, there were only XBOX prompts provided... This game is available on PS4 as well you muppets! Just include the configuration from there! In fact, you could even just use different icons, replacing the XBOX ones if you felt lazy, but noooo, you were super lazy! Well, guess what, I am not going through a 60-100 hour game trying to memorise what button fits the prompt shown to me. I got a refund, and you lost a customer and get a negative review now. Guess I'm watching a let's play now, since from what I've seen, the game is actually good. Too bad you couldn't even do the bare minimum for me... But you got all the 10/10s from the incompetent game "journalists", so everything is good for your shareholders... Next time, try harder!
The game itself is fantastic. It’s truly open world. The decision to alleviate all map markers and quest markers was at first daunting, but, ended up being a fantastic choice. It truly gives you the freedom to not be too tied to any quest-line and instead incentivizes the player to freely roam the world. From entry, there’s no hold handing AT ALL in this game. It’s truly up to the player to piece everything together and get combat down-pat all by their lonesome. This leads to an incredibly rewarding feeling when you finally beat a boss or even simply defeat a group of goons for the first time. Speaking of enemy variety, Elden Ring exemplifies enemy design and some enemies truly are nightmare fuel. They’re so imaginative but also strangely believable in this weird world. This game is definitely not for everybody. It requires immense patience, persistence, and sometimes will downright frustrate the hell out of you especially if you’re new to from software titles as I was. But when it clicks, it is truly a one of a kind game. The variety of combat is excellent. You can play this game in pretty much every way imaginable and they’re all fun. Timing a perfect parry or dodging just at the right moment is so incredibly rewarding when done right. Learning how to not be pummeled by a group of enemies and single them out is also rewarding. The challenge in this game, though frustrating, really gives out those dopamine hits once you complete something correctly. It’s made so well to frustrate you just enough but always make you want to keep playing. Graphically the world is straight up gorgeous but also dark and harrowing. The aesthetic of the game matches the challenge of it. All of this said, there are elements to this game that feel dated or weirdly lacking in polish. For one, it’s clear the pc port is definitely an afterthought. The settings leave much to be desired with no option for higher refresh rates than 60hz or widescreen support. It’s so laughable how little care they gave to the pc port. They didn’t even have the time to switch the display for controller button inputs to mouse and keyboard button inputs when playing. This means when going through dialogue, it’ll still show as though you should press “x” button to continue or exit the interaction on a game pad. I mean come on, changing this is the LEAST you can do. On top of it, the button mapping on pc is just awful. Shift+left click for alternate attacks or using the arrow keys to toggle quick items feels unbelievably bad. If you’re playing on pc, do yourself a favor and buy an Xbox controller to play the game with. They clearly did not have pc players in mind when coming up with the control scheme. The interfaces and ui feel extremely dated, unintuitive and clunky. While I completely disagree with players saying they feel as though the graphics are from a ps3 game, the ui and interface definitely feels generations behind. I understand this game is going for being difficult, but I didn’t foresee that difficulty leaking into frustration with ui such as an unreadable mess when opening your character’s stats. It makes the game so unapproachable for new players which is really a shame. Leave us up to our own in combat, sure, but at least let me understand what the hell I’m looking at when I’m in my inventory or looking at my stats. I understand I can open a menu for explanations on stat breakdowns but the breakdowns are awful and explain nothing. On top of this, it’s just downright ugly. When opening any options menu it really took me out of the beautiful game and was just off putting. It’s drab, dark, grey and doesn’t have 1/10 of the charm or thought that was clearly put into the rest of the game. I know you have a small staff, but please for the next game hire somebody who’s forte is UI. It’d truly level up the game. All of these downsides don’t take away from the fun I have, though. I don’t usually love open world games as they typically are super broad but have no depth and this game has both. There is so much packed into this game that I’m sure there’s tons I’ve missed while playing and that definitely up’s it’s replayability. Which means you may be playing this game for a long, long, long time. Definitely just don’t feel tight giving this game any less than a 9/10. A few hiccups here and there but all around stellar and a step forward for open world games.
Constant fps drops, stutter and horse, npc invisible. I exceed the requirements. Trash port, Fix your game.
Look at all these scrubs rating this masterpiece a zero. Get gud losers
This Game is Amazing. All most Completely Perfect only complaint is that there are very small Glitches where the frame rate drops a bit when fighting but it doesnt really change much
This game has so many shills that are so quick to dismiss any legitimate concerns or problems, it's hilarious. The game looks like dark souls 3, runs like turd. 3090 at 2k resolution drops frames left and right. No DLSS. It's probably not a zero but to offset those shills I'm giving this title a zero.
3060 ti 36gigs- no issues seen. it's taken the best of everything from From's games, then had a baby with skyrim. they had me at jumping, let alone giving me a horse that can double jump and non linear maps. Story? don't care. I think ones happening, haven't really looked. i've been riding around the map all weekend picking fights I shouldn't and loving it. It's a souls game, i can read the story on youtube later, there's a horseyboy to be cheesed!
Cognitive dissonance runs high with this one. This game is trash. Insanely difficult fights make you think this game is better than it is. The grind makes you justify the time you have spent on this hot turd. It has no story. How can a game with no story get 10. So many bugs. It is just a poor port of dark souls 2 in an open world.
Let's start off by saying I'm a huge fan of Dark Souls. Now that we have that out of the way, let's get into the core reason for a 2/10... Performance and proper PC support. Gameplay for this game, as well all know, is excellent; however, the lack of proper attention to the PC release has ruined the experience for many. Everything from CTD at launch, to launching into a blank white screen, variable stuttering on everything from low to high-end systems, lack of widescreen "support" (they render black boxes over the edges, yet the game still renders behind those just fine), lack of vsync toggle, an artificial framerate limit (some claim animations are tied to framerates, yet it's been unlocked by breaking EAC), among other issues. With all the games recently launching on PC with abhorrent issues, gamers can't let it slide anymore. It's 2022 and this game launched without proper ultrawide and superultrawide support, things supported by various games on smaller budgets going on 20 years ago. This is the first mainstream game (don't kid yourself stating that a multi-million seller is "niche") that I can recall that not only does this, but doesn't have a vsync toggle and caps framerates on PC. It's pretty clear that FromSoftware put minimal effort into their PC release. It's bad enough to have those issues, but to have crashing issues plaguing so many and horrid stuttering due to them not optimizing their shaders when they have such a huge budget is just a shame. Lord knows if they'll ever fix it either, as they didn't really address much with Dark Souls 3. Unlike Dark Souls 3 though, we have Easy Anti-Cheat to contend with, which disables our ability to apply community made mod fixes to address the issues. So now we're reliant on a developer that's historically disconnected from their fans on PC, as evidenced by their past releases. I gave them 3 days to address the lack of ultrawide at least, and all they did was send out a patch to "fix" stuttering that didn't resolve stuttering and actually caused the white screen issues. Since then I have refunded the game and will not return until they fix all other issues. If they fix all the issues, then I'll update my review accordingly. My Specifications: AMD 2700X 32GB DDR4 (4x 8GB) Red Devil 6900XT Ultimate 256GB Western Digital Black NVMe LG 34" Ultrawide 3440x1440 160hz FreeSync Still stuttered all around the initial spawn room. Black bars covered 1/3 of my screen. Did not crash personally but know others with issues.
As someone who has played all previous Souls games, Elden Ring tops them all. Although made noticeably easier than previous games to appeal to a newer audience, the open world experience is a delight and I really hope every game they make going forward is open world too.
Really good game with a bad PC launch. Let's hope FromSoftware can fix these performance issues soon because aside from that the game is really good. I miss the posture gauge and parry mechanic from Sekiro tho :(
A lot of stutter and frequent FPS drops, no Ultrawide support (and can't use the UW fix else risk EAC ban), 60fps locked which on my monitor will not trigger Freesync Premium Pro. Been waiting on this for ages.. this might have been fine in 2010.. this is one very disappointing port.. i'll give it a week; if it isnt fixed, then this is another refund coming through.
Its the worst souls game in the series (including sekiro / bloodborne) but its still a souls game so its fun. Get it if the performance ever gets fixed. Here are the biggest issue: godawful performance - atrocious game looks awful on low settings, some of the ugliest shadows ive ever seen, some of the worst performance offenders (like weather) cant be turned off reused assets - a lot of them - multiple bosses are the same / show up as regular enemies (treebosses 4+ times!!!), certain dungeon "parts" get reused more than 3 times! the horse is bad - some bosses basically force you to use it but especially hitting enemies with shorter (e.g. sword) weapons off horseback is incredibly imprecise there is a LOT of dead open world but its somewhat tolerable - the map is quite good! If there is nothing on the map to see then theres nothing there to find either so theres really no point of searching every corner (which is contrary to how souls games usually work) A lot of the pve bosses and enemies are much weaker than in regular souls games with the exception of the "Elden Ring" bosses. The pvp is as laggy and wonky as always - nothing improved here. Its fun but i found myself going back to other games before i finished it.
A masterpiece made by From Software, they have created not only the best open world game ever, but also the best game ever made. This is a game that everyone should try.
Over-hyped garbage. I'm amazed, bewildered by reviews of this game being considered a masterpiece, etc, etc. Runs terribly on PC, confusing & poorly-implemented UI. This game could've come out 10 years ago, and I would've believed it.
Easily one of the best games of all time let down by a very bad port. Good things The open world is incredibly vast. It has many secrets, dungeons, and other things all around the world. The terrain feels realistic and it always seems like there is something next to you. The hitboxes are very good. There have been times when a sword has just barely missed me when I was attacking. I have not died once to bad hitboxes. Enemies are varied, have many attacks, and have good ai. Some of the bosses will hunt you before attacking. The bosses are phenomenal. They feel as though you are versing someone who is stronger than you. The horse, jump, and crouch feel very good. Stealth feels like it works this time. Great story as always I am always trying out something new, which is very good The rewards you get at the end of side content are meaningful Mixed things The graphics could use some updating. While they are not bad graphics, they are not as good as they could be Pop-in can be very annoying but is not super noticeable when you aren't paying attention. Some dungeons and mini-bosses can feel copy-pasty. Bad things There is constant stuttering and low frames. People with the best pcs are still having this problems. I've heard people are unable to launch the game There is no ultrawide support* The fps is capped a 60* All in all, this game could have easily been one of the best if From Software had they put effort into the visuals and playability of the game. I have a feeling that this may be their final time doing this before change happens. Elden Ring is easily one of the worst games that they put out in terms of optimization. With a large influx of players coming in, people are talking about these problems more than ever. I believe that From may see these problems and finally fix them for the better. *I've heard that these things are already fixed by mods
The game is a masterpiece but the technical side is outdated. -No Ultra wide support -60fps lock -Mouse and Keyboard controls are terrible -Lags and stutters
Elden Ring is a game that will make your jaw drop every hour. The level of creativity the developers have reached is spectacular, I can't imagine how they achieved that. Combat mechanics are very fluid and diverse, there are so many ways to approach it. It is the best Action RPG to date, so if you like this genre you should absolutely try Elden be.
- Formulaic storytelling that feels extremely derivative. It was acceptable to a point with the previous titles, but with Elden Ring, it feels like it's gone past that and now it just feels cheap and lazy. - This game is a galore of reused assets, animations, and everything in between. There seems to be very little to this game that's wholly unique; almost everything you see has been ripped shamelessly from Dark Souls 3 or Bloodborne and changed slightly (if even that). - No benefit to the addition of an open world. It serves no purpose to enrich the gameplay and in fact hurts the game as FromSoftware has had great level design in past games which can't be accomplished as well with an open world game. Furthermore, the world feels extremely empty and dead as there are ridiculously vast amounts of lands filled with nothing. - Crafting adds unnecessary bloat to a game that doesn't really need it and mounted combat trivializes the vast majority of fights, which is probably because the overworked developers didn't have time to design any of the fights against it. In conclusion, Elden Ring proves that FromSoftware is no longer the innovative game developer from a few years ago that was afraid to take risks and give us something fresh and new. Elden Ring is an exact, formulaic repeat of every Souls game that came after Dark Souls 2 that feels mediocre at best. This isn't Elden Ring, this is Souls 2K22.
Glad to see there's other people here who get it. These games since 2009 have been the same **** with a different skin, and idiots pay 60$ for it every time lol!! This is modern gaming for you, nice to see there's people here calling souls fans what they are. Plebs who pay for the same crap over and over
Great port, nothing works like it should. I just hope it won't take a month before they fix the game. How do you make something that stutters on a 3090 is beyond me.
The bad things about dark souls 3 are solved in this game, less stressful and with more freedom. In resume its better in many ways. One of the greatest games ever.
6 hours in and there is no fun to be found. Moving from Sekiro to this game feels like a complete downgrade.
Fantastic game, occasional frame drops and visual glitches but nothing gamebreaking.
Insane stuttering even on my strong PC. Fromsoft yet again refuses to put even a modicum of effort into their PC ports. There's absolutely no excuse for this. Fromsoft have lost all of my trust and respect as a consumer.
Performance is terrible. Stuttering and frame drops will get you killed. Controls just don't feel fluid even with a controller. Graphics quality is pretty subpar. I've played plenty of indie games that look and run better. This is overall just some mediocre looking terrible console port of an unplayable souls game.
Everybody (myself included) WANTS to love this game, but it's From Software's biggest PC port disaster since Dark Souls: Prepare To Die Edition. In addition to the performance and control issues that most PC gamers are writing about, the game has no ultrawide 21:9 or 32:9 support at all. Historically, this hasn't been an issue since the modding community fixes it within MINUTES after release. With Elden Ring, however, FromSoftware has decided to include Easy Anti-Cheat while ALSO going to extra effort to hide large portions of ultrawide users screens without their consent. This means we have to choose between playing online with most of our displays disabled, or playing offline with the usual community fixes. Either way, we're missing a huge part of the game, and for $60+ that is NOT okay. This is a terrible, half-baked PC port missing fundamental PC features and optimizations. No PC gamer should recommend this mess in its current state, even if the underlying game is very good. As it stands, many of us are being artificially prevented from enjoying it untainted.
Unplayable trash thanks to massive frame drops/ stuttering. Not to mention the 60 fps cap, lack of ultrawide support, controller prompts, etc. From Software just doesn’t get PC gaming. Perhaps they just used an old PS4 dev kit to code and don’t actually own a PC. I’m sure it’s fine for consoles, where there are very low technical expectations.
Lots people over here review bombing the game, i guess the discord troll numbers is growing.
Besides the classic from software games pc ports being sometimes glitchy and laggy, the game is AMAZING, its basically dark souls 3 with open world and i love it, the amount of builds you can do is incredible, instead of following the story straight up you can pretty much do whatever you want first, then do the storyline. Even on low graphics the game looks amazing, the dificulty is perfect too, it just feels way to easy sometimes. totally a 10/10 most play, easily GOTY!
Awful PC port. No 21:9 support, 60fps cap, decade-old graphics, archaic co-op system, stuttering, and connection issues. The game is the first in the series with "Easy Anti-Cheat" so any modification to the game including enabling ultrawide or uncapping fps requires the game to be played offline. No reason to give these devs your money.
The game needs some optimization yes but is not unplayable like many claims, not even close. The rest is PERFECT!. The wolrd is magnificent and HUGE, secrets everywhere. Never felt so driven to explore in a open wolrd, i just can't stop playing. Best souls game ever. I give a 9 because of the optimization.
-9 points for stuttering issues and bad performance on my powerful machine. I'm bought this at full price, expecting fast passing hardcore battles that challenge my skills. Got a buggy stuttering mess that is challenging my nerves by running in slow-mo and lagging like *. Even Zelda on EMU is more responsive that this lazy PC port.
The game itself is a masterpiece, I played 20 hours and love every aspect of it 10/10, but the performance issues and the INVISIBLE ENEMIES BUG totally breaks the game for me, I have decided to stop playing until the devs fix it, Because it deserves to be played in the best quality
I find it so very strange that a game can be released with so many performance issues and be subject to day 1 performance patches, yet reviewers are still willing to give this game 10/10 The last shards of integrity have left the building with this one, although to be fair, I never read their prosaic tripe anyway. It’s only ever about money. It’s a good game, the progression is Never boring and the
Elden ring need a patch now freezes on boss fight please fix it so I can beat the game and needs ultra-wide support I don't know why game developers do not have this there expensive so i want my moneys worth
FromSoftware is an insult to gaming and especially the PC market. Being extremely difficult and grindy does not constitute a good game. 60 FPS lock... no ultra-wide, terrible UI in classic Japanese fashion, PS3 graphics in 2022. Unacceptable performance and stuttering for the low-fi graphics. It is the weirdest phenomenon that so many gamers are so forgiving to FromSoftware's many glaring flaws. They need to be held to higher standards.
I did not play Elden Ring longh enough to give it final thoughts but there are many zero Scores that simply tell lies or are frustrated. I have no big performance issues. And its so a 10 out of 10 in all aspects (im 20 hours in)
I am not one to write reviews, but seeing all the disingenuous reviews I feel the need to throw in my two cents. I have about 20 hours in this game (and it came out like three days ago) and I'm not a souls veteran either, having only played Bloodborne most of the way through previously. This is one of the greatest games that I have ever played. It's not easy, but I love it. The world is gorgeous, the combat is great, and I couldn't be happier with the gameplay itself. The stuttering is a thing, but it's not game breaking for me. If you are concidering trying this game I encourage you to, but be ready for a wild ride.
I don't like this game so I rate it 0. Simple as that. Also runs very poorly and I don't want to spend my free time trying to fix it.
From Software is ALMOST at Square Enix levels of terrible PC ports. The only reason they are higher than SE is because they didn't dare charge $70 like SE did for FF7R. 60fps cap, terrible performance, and no ultrawide support. I'll be nice and give just a 5 though.
I watched my friend playing the game . They need to fix few bugs and performance issue in the game but over all elden ring is awesome game made by from software
Git gud losers this game is a masterpiece and deserves every dime ………………,,,,,,,,,,,,,…………
Massive stuttering issues and one of the worst performance I've ever seen in a game
It seems that PC gamers prove, once again, that they are the most fragile and pouty people on planet Earth. The slightest issue and they will review bomb a game and completely disregard its content. The open-world is breathtaking, the combat works flawlessly, and everything that From Software has learned over the years melds together to create an addictive world that you WANT to be in when you're not playing. So I give Elden Ring a 10/10 to counter the disingenuous 0/10s.
Massive stuttering issues and one of the worst performance I've ever seen in a game
Elden Ring ... More like Witcher Souls 3.5. Their focus on open world has ruined many aspects we've loved from other souls games. A souls game where you gather herbs to craft things ... are you serious ? Don't even get me started about the broken AI, choppy horseback controls, mediocre graphics, annoying kb+m controls and bad optimization. Admit it, open world does not work with souls formula. 3 hours into it and I'm bored out of my mind, can't believe I am saying this for a Miyazaki game. Please go back to your roots ... or better yet, port Bloodborne to PC to make up for this sad mistake ****.
There is a large audience that pours free hate on the game just because it received high marks, I'm not that hypocrite I'm here to talk about my real experience. The only real problem with the game is the optimization, the other complaints are hypocrites frustrated by the fact that the elden ring has a higher rating than their favorite game. Masterpiece has nothing to say 40 hours of gameplay and my experience has been incredible, it's been a while since I felt so immersed in rpg games, a must-play game for everyone.
Masterpiece. Nothing less than that. Elden Ring is a complex game, you will love it or hate it, is a SOULS game in a beautiful well made inmersive openworld that reward you for HIGH exploration. Now, I understand people will not dig the "git good" part of the souls community, but in this part, after seeing how bad kids put a 1 or a 0 just cause they are new or dont understand the games mechanics, is just unfair. This game brings all the best from all fromsoftware games, even Sekiro, to build up the best game you can ask for. THERE IS A REASON but Souls games are not for everyone, the game doesn´t hold your hand, doesn´t babysit you, it challenges you, it brings the best of you, not everyone are truly comfortable with this kind of liberty, many need a hand on their shoulders. PC seems to have some problems, but honestly Im runing it without problems on a notebook, so is your desktop hardware problem, dont blame the game that bad.
This game deserves more than 10 it is perfect masterpiece but there are too many stupid review bombers
Combat is excellent and bosses are fun to learn. There are a bit more default attack moves which allow for more ways to approach every fight, not to mention the open world giving you more angles. Cooperative is very fun given there's an immediate boss/objective before us. Unfortunately the pacing isn't as good as the more linear Souls games due to some bad open world designs and how gathering materials has bloated the map. Crafting and gathering is just not good. I'd rather more materials be dropped from enemies instead of being gathered on the ground. Sadly the open world adds considerably less content than the space it takes up and the introduction area doesn't do it any favors. The rewards for exploring aren't comparable to the effort it took to find and get there unless it's to progress the main story. If there's no point of returning to an area why allocate such huge space for it? This is without mentioning you cannot use mounts in co-op. The pace becomes incredibly slow at many times. Luckily many of the enemies are engaging and rewarding to defeat. It makes you wonder why there is so much space between you and the actual fun.
Massive stuttering and a huge input delay!!!!! It is a very very good game, but in the atual state of the game, I recomend you to doesn't buy it and download the cracked version, because it is running better, and when the game is fixed buy it.
Almost every single bad review is complaining about performance. That can be fixed. Most of these reviewers that are giving negative reviews are expecting the game to run on their potato machines. The game definitely needs optimization but it's definitely playable. Game is amazing. If you want more accurate reviews check steam reviews where people have to own the game to be able to review.
Extremely poor optmized Tons of stutterings nd fps drops The game doesn't has stunning visuals so it s ridiculous being so demanding in cpu
This game is so good. It’s like Botw and Skyrim with Soulsborne combat. It seems like a lot of people have issues with the PC version, which ****, but I personally haven’t noticed much stuttering, and I’ve had zero crashes. It helped when I found the game in window graphics settings and set the setting to ‘High Performance.’
the game is so broken on PC, i am getting mid 30 frames on a 3090 with AMD ryzen
I have minor framedrops but this is an amazing game. The gameplay, vastness, and hours of replay ability speaks for itself.
Had 21.9,32.9 when it first released then changed. if you wanna play in UW it's only single player now. The clowns at From made this decision. Also 60 fps lock. All you clowns that think UW is a niche need mental help.
Nobody should never take game reviews seriously after this. The Evil Within (2014), amazing game, had some technical issues that were patched very fast (few days) got very low scores, PC got only 68 i think. Days Gone (2019), not perfect, still very fun open world zombie game, got score 70, Elden Ring (2022) - outdated, boring and empty, gets score 95/97 ....
If you release a game on PC, it should preferably actually be playable on PC. Not only are the graphics broken as far as performance goes, but most unforgivable to me, is the lack of controller support from a game that claims to have full controller support. None of my controllers work at all with this game, and this is just not the kind of game that works well with a keyboard and mouse. Completely unplayable on PC at the moment, perhaps if fixes come in the next few weeks I will give it another chance. If it takes longer than that I'll have moved on already. We PC gamers are pretty tired of getting shafted by game creators that release games in an unplayable state recently, I think. At this point you will just lose my support and attention entirely but pulling this crap.
Elden Ring is a good game, but... The game has a big optimization problem. Looks like it's from 2017 on the graphisc. Musics bad. You should be ashamed of bluepoint. If we leave this aside there's a lot of sloppy work in the game. They enlarged a normal enemy in sekiro, bloodborne and dark souls and added it to the game as a boss. The venues were the same. How many more times will you use Anor Londo? Even the animations are the same. Aren't you ashamed to do this? I don't understand how they give 10 to this game. Did you get any money from the producers? Horizon F.W. 88 Elden Rind 97. Engrossing...
Lazy open world, technically outdated, outdated graphics, outdated animations, assets reused EVERYWHERE, generic/reskin enemies everywhere.
Even above my high expectations. Dont listen to all this guys who cant even beat the first boss or poeple who never played a souls game before. It is the best souls game and the BEST Game I have ever played. PERFECT!
ok optimisation is verry bad but the gam does not deserve 0's because the world is vast and the lore is incredible
I really wanted to play this game after my love of Bloodborne, which I am still trying to finish, damn it's hard. All I heard was that this game is more easier, more accessible and less punishing. They lied. Was I expecting the game to be easy? No. But what was all that talk about? So, I had Stutter, stutter, stuttering so bad it was unplayable. Bugs everywhere, and bad hit boxes made this game a BIG no for me. I am back on bloodborne, I think I'm almost finished it, and then I will play Sekiro. Fromsoft released a broken game and the meta critic scores, why the hell didn't they tell us about how badly the game runs, don't show this. What a shame such a small (39) group of obvious souls fans reviewed it and decided to not disclose just how bad it runs. Even if they love a series they shouldn't give it a pass. Do your job next time! Other games in the past have been ripped apart because of releasing with these same issues. Yet this is GoTY? Can I also point out that in this day and age you'd think even a Souls game would up its graphics and physics system to the industry standard for AA and AAA games. Walk through foliage and nothing responds which breaks immersion. The graphics/assets/textures look like it came from 2013. I'm not joking. The style of the game is more of the same. The game does nothing new, even copying Breath Of The Wilds open world format to a T. If you are a pro critic I ask that in the future you stay consistent with your reviews. This way people can get a proper read on what a game is without your obvious childish bias masking a broken game just so it sells well or whatever your reasoning was. Signed Disappointed Gamer. What a shame
Extremely poor experience on PC, what could be easily a 10/10 game is tarnished by mind boggling stutters, low fps and input bugs even on a PC well above the recommended specs.
I feel my self like a dumb when I'm fighting against invisible enemies under a tons of lags.
Masterpiece. Challenging and beautiful to explore. Graphics, music, gameplay all stellar! Ignore all the review bombers who don’t know how to use a PC.
I'm gonna be honest, this is my first ever Metacritic game review. But given the huge hype for this game, and the polarizing user reviews (almost 50/50), I feel the need to say something. Why 8/10? Pros: - Graphics. So what if it looks outdated? I'd rather have a game that looks crisp like Witcher 3 and Gothic 3 (2 amazing RPGs even for today's standards) than some blurry, glowy, photorealistic crap like AC Valhalla and Cyberpunk 2077. And whoever says it looks just like DS3 is not looking carefully enough. - Accessibility. Finally we get a map, fast travel from almost anywhere, switchable control schemes, less vague dialogues, quest location aids, dungeon location aids, as many summoning helps as you want as long as you have enough FP, no more health regeneration after enemy retreat, an additional block counter move, far more doable than the parry, item crafting on the go, easy resource farming. Horseback riding AND fighting. Jumping. These are all things that previous From Software games simply did not have. Makes the game so much easier. - Exploration. You can go anywhere and see where you're going, no more fog of war, and reaching places can be done from so many angles. It's impossible to get lost. - Mystery. This game uses your brain, not just your reflexes. It gives you something to do, something to wonder about. Your curiosity is at its peak everywhere you turn. What if that cliff is hiding treasure at the base? Why are there so many monsters over there, are they protecting something valuable? IS THAT CASTLE MOVING? - Fairness. It doesn't pit you against an impossible boss without the possibility to level up somewhere else instead of backtracking to farm the same monsters over and over. Cons: - FPS drops (I learned it's a general problem, not just my system's fault, which means it's patchable. Also, I don't get any FPS drops in dungeons, just outside where you can run away from danger anyway. Those drops are reduced if you reduce the Grass quality, but for now it's a con). - Early stages. You need essential items for levelling up, crafting, item upgrading early on in the game if you're gonna make your life easier. But sometimes it's almost impossible to find them without an online guide. It can get frustrating when you get ashes of war, bolstering items, game hints, but you can't piece them together unless you spend a long time figuring it out. In the end we also want to have fun, not go to Dark Souls college. - Soundtrack. Major downer for me. It takes away from the atmosphere. You had time, this could've been a masterpiece, making exploration so much more enjoyable. I'm really sorry about this one. In the end I hope this review is helpful. I can say that it's a highly addictive game and I can't stop playing it even when I should. Please help :))
I'm so confused by the 10/10 scores from every publisher for this game. I've never seen a game overrated in this scale.. FromSoft gets away with no innovation, while every other franchise gets bashed for repetitiveness. Elden Ring is an already outdated souls-like game with worse than ps4 graphics, a barren open-world that offers nothing new. Animation quality is as bad as some indie games that were made by 2 people. The reviewers and community is so delusional that they see open-world, mount and jumping as groundbreaking features. It's time to wake up and realise graphics like this, with bad animations and same old combat mechanics DOES NOT DESERVE 10/10. It's unfair to games like RDR2, Death Stranding and GoW and such. Time to wake up and play other games that actually earn praise.. If this game gets 10/10, than RDR2 need to get like 50 out of 10.
The game is actually a masterpiece. It has a huge open world full of things to do, the gameplay is wonderful, the lore is magical. But I can't point more than this because the game at this point is almost unplayable at some points. I hope FromSoftware release an optimization patch soon
Don't believe the negative reviews. Most people don't have a good enough pc or don't know how to play the game. Elden Ring is without a doubt the best game ever made by mankind.
This game is a masterpiece and is exactly what I would want in terms of an open world dark souls game. No quest markers, no hand holding, and amazing exploration. I'm constantly finding new side bosses, areas, NPCS, and other mysteries. Nothing is straight forward and the game rewards players for being inquisitive and taking their time. I get chills jousting insane bosses on my horse with an enchanted two handed sword. This is the type of gameplay I dreamed about when I was a young boy, and to see it finally come to a reality is an amazing experience. I have a very high end rig, and I will admit that I have ran into a couple of stutters. Dark Souls PC ports have always been rough around the edges when they first release, and this one is no different. The lack of widescreen support was also a disappointment. I know both of these things will be fixed through the modding community or by the devs themselves. However the game is just so amazing in every other way that these minor issues are very easy for me to look past. This game is easily in my top 5 games of all times, and may end up being my favorite RPG of all time by the time I finish. 2022 is an amazing year to be a gamer.
Aside from the performance bugs, there's a great open world soulslike here. I would give an 8/10, but I'm giving a 10/10 to counteract the review bombing.
Must play is laughable. Most console-itis infested title I've ever had the misfortune of putting my hands on. Absolutely horrendous interface and control scheme that is beyond unacceptable for a PC title, even a ported one. Bad performance compared to the graphical fidelity, unsmooth movement, gameplay lacks fluidity. Possibly the worst port I've seen to date.
Hello. Casino is on Fromsoftware side. They got zero. Thanks to no Ultrawide support and infinite stutters
60 fps with drops on 5600X/6700XT, no V-Sync in setting, no ultrawide support. Graphic like Dark Soul 3. Yeah, if you are on hype train and love DS games, you will probably love this one too. But poor optimation, only 60 fps lock, ugly graphic, fps drops, bugs, crashes, problems with Xbox controller, horrible menu and settings. Shader quality doesnt work (it did nothing), same issue with Auto-detect best rendering setting. Half of the changes like grass quality do virtually nothing. I asked for a refund. It makes no sense. From Software **** on the PC again. The game can be great, but if I have to rate the PC port, forget about it. 60 fps with graphics at least 6 years outdated, non-functional graphics settings. If you have a PS5, you may enjoy it more on the console. It's a horrible experience here. And as for the game itself. It's "just" another Soul game. Nothing more, nothing less. But it's definitely not a game of the century, as some are trying to suggest.
best souls game, game freezes sometimes, but overall excellent experience and amazing world
Bad port, no ultrawide suppport, 60fps lock. 2013 Graphics. Poorly done without any effort. I feel like most people rate this as a "soulslike game" and not a "game". Is is an "ok on PC" soulslike? Yes it is. Is it a good game? No it is not. Its boring, graphics are several years old, voiceacting is bad, story is bad. Combat is as wooden as my cooking spoon. This game is just another soulslike non-revolutionary stuff with 2013 graphics.
No ultrawide support in 2022 is just a lazy port from the developers. I have games released years ago that have this day one. Any new game that comes out in the last few years and beyond will not see 1 dime of my money if this is left out.
Tehcnical side: Playing with a strong gaming PC, I had some fps drops, but nothing game breaking. Gameplay: I don't want to drag it out, a lot of people already said what I think.This really is the best game I played in a long time.
Simply a masterpiece, nothing less. People complaining about the game optimisation are wrong, the game could be more optimized, yes, but you can't just simply pass this amazing game.
In a genre that has become wrought with bloated and over-designed games, Elden Ring is defiantly contrarian in almost every way. Its commitment to design by subtraction and to placing the responsibility of charting a path through its world entirely on the player makes it stand head and shoulders above other open-world titles. Elden Ring takes the shards of what came before and forges them into something that will go down in history as one of the all-time greats: a triumph in design and creativity, and an open-world game that distinguishes itself for what it doesn't do as much as what it does.
From Software upped the ante, surpassing even their best efforts that we saw with Sekiro Shadows Die Twice in terms of world building. Elden Ring is an absolute must-play game for 2022, but set aside some time and some patience.
Elden Ring is one of the best games in years, with a breathtaking vast world to explore, and one of the most satisfying combat systems in an RPG. This is the accumulation of FromSoftware’s work over the last thirteen years and an evolution on its inspiring formula.
Although challenging and grand, Elden Ring brilliantly immerses players in its fantasy world. The game rewards every type of player, from the curious explorer to the action-hungry warrior; you'll find something to love about this game. Even after 30 hours, there are still many adventures that await me in The Lands Between. This is an evolution of every Soulslike game that came before, and although brutally challenging, I couldn't put it down for a second.
Naysayers will point to reused assets, a lowering of the difficulty in Spirit Summons, but these people miss the point. Elden Ring is the definitive Souls experience, introducing a class-leading open-world design and mechanics that will draw more people to the franchise. And that’s nothing but a good thing.
Elden Ring is a marvel with scope and diversity of mind-boggling proportions. At the risk of hyperbole, it has dethroned Bloodborne as my favorite game of all time. It's all I've been able to think about since I got my hands on it, and the only thing I want to do now is play it with the rest of you.
As an open-world skeptic who was pretty much convinced that the Souls formula wouldn't work in such a setting, I'm happy to have been proven wrong. Elden Ring retains the heart of what makes FromSoft's action RPGs so compelling, and takes things to a whole other level by pulling the best elements from their older games and improving upon them in this one.
Elden Ring is not only the best action RPG developed by From Software but one of the best open-world titles ever made. A masterclass of game design, Elden Ring isn't just a game but an epic dark fantasy journey that no one will be able to forget for a very long time.
A supercut of FromSoft's very best work, transported to a totally new space. Elden Ring is not only a masterpiece by its developer's lofty standards, but in packing so much density into the Lands Between, it lights the path ahead for open-world games in general.
Backed by an incredible and rewarding open-world design, Elden Ring is a masterclass in every facet that it brings to the table. Without a doubt, this is FromSoftware’s magnum opus.
What ultimately matters, however, is that Elden Ring succeeds at almost every goal it sets out to achieve. It’s the culmination of years of refinement of FromSoftware’s formula. Mechanically, and thematically, this is a game making a statement: that you can buck industry tendencies even as you adopt their trends.
Elden Ring challenged me, captivated me, and enchanted me, an unyielding deluge of discovery and artistic vision unbound. Elden Ring represents a truly amazing combination of various game elements that all come together to create something fascinating, special, and unforgettable. Elden Ring isn’t just the best game this year; it’s one of the best games ever made.
FromSoftware’s most ambitious title yet, Elden Ring is a glowing spectacle of achievement. A refined open-world format adds unimagined wonder to the game, whilst legacy dungeons will likely go down as some of FromSoftware’s best level design. Beyond that, there are so many improvements to the Souls formula that make this an essential play for fans – this is a game that brings so much to the table, yet somehow leaves nothing out.
Elden Ring is a massive iteration on what FromSoftware began with the Souls series, bringing its relentlessly challenging combat to an incredible open world that gives us the freedom to choose our own path.
Elden Ring is a spectacle and a marvel to behold. Although there are some issues, the overall experience remains deeply engaging. It's one of the best open-world games I have ever played.
There is no way around it; Elden Ring is a masterpiece. From Software's iconic gameplay, set in a vast and wonderful world, sucks us right in and never lets go. Even though the hand-holding is close to zero, Elden Ring will surely attract new players due to its more forgiving openness. A must play.
Elden Ring absolutely manages to deliver on what was promised, and is, despite some minor annoyances, one of the finest gaming experiences I’ve had in years. That’s not only due to the rock-solid gameplay foundation, with its flexible class system, versatile weapons and progression mechanics. It’s also not only because of the morbid, dense atmosphere and the mysterious, captivating setting. It isn’t even solely the open world, which makes me want to spend every spare second exploring it with its gorgeous, monumental vistas and densely packed locations. Instead, the masterful combination of all these great qualities is what really makes Elden Ring special. Yes, the game has stopped me in my tracks multiple times, forcing me to leave bosses and places for later due to the somewhat slower progression system. But every time it does, it offers up dozens of other locations to test my mettle, become stronger and more skilled. And this cycle of trial and triumph is so immensely engaging that it’s going to keep me entertained for months to come.
ELDEN RING is the most accessible entry to a FromSoftware title to date, with plenty of things to explore, do, and enjoy. Those even mildly interested by the premise should give it a shot.
Almost nothing compares to Elden Ring in quality and depth. This is a game everyone should try at least once if only to get lost in the Lands Between.
Elden Ring is a walking example of a 10 out of 10 game that isn’t perfect. No game can be perfect but there is just so much in here to love that it becomes hard to pay attention to its mistakes. Every handful of hours had the game open up more and, every time, I was desperate to keep searching, exploring, conquering. Now, over 100 hours later and two playthroughs, all I want is to discover more of what Elden Ring has in store for me. This isn’t just one of the best From Software titles but one of the best games I’ve ever played and I would be shocked if this didn’t have reverberations on the entire games industry.
It’s been my sincerest pleasure experiencing FromSoftware’s latest work. Elden Ring is a landmark title that I hope shapes the future of what this industry can do; maybe we can one day point at this time in 2022 and note that this is when gaming took a giant leap. At risk of “laying it on thick” and coming off as hyperbolic, in my more than 30 years of gaming, I have almost never played a title that so neared perfection. I’ve devoted 80 blissful hours to Elden Ring, and at no point was I not enjoying myself or captivated by this world. My wish is that this team continues to receive the support it deserves and graces us with more opportunities to lose ourselves in the fantastic.
Elden Ring is built upon a huge epic world and it is by farther best game in the Soul series in terms of map extensiveness and operability of battle system. More than just the worthiest successor of the Soul series, this game has broken free from the past shortcomings and constraints of the series and comes as an unparalleled master piece. It is a very enjoyable journey venturing into this world rich in details and full of challenges worth exploring.
Elden Ring is the culmination of 15 years of work that have allowed From Software to improve, title after title, those consolidated foundations that have already given life to some of the most acclaimed games of all time, united by compelling stories and unparalleled gameplay.
Elden Ring is among my favourite games ever. Those frame hitches, while significant, marred mere moments in my playtime with From's masterpiece. I played 95 hours of Elden Ring, and I could have played oh-so-much more. I will, probably. I railroaded myself with my weapon choice, but I found dozens of amazing looking spells that I'd love to try out. And I can't PVP at level 150, so I'll need to start a new character if I want to invade people. And there are two other endings that I didn't achieve — you aren't thrust immediately into NG+ in Elden Ring once you achieve an ending, but I don't think you can achieve other endings later. I already kind of know how to do them, I think. Well, I think I know, anyway. But I don't know what I don't know, so…
If Dark Souls was the earthquake, Elden Ring is the aftershock. In a sense, it’s more of a love letter to the Soulsborne fanbase, incorporating dramatic fragments of each past game into a single product that is rewarding and fulfilling. While not perfect, I believe that FromSoftware has followed through on the hype surrounding this game and been able to create something truly mesmerising.
The hype behind Elden Ring was always going to be a challenge to match, yet the game succeeds in almost every way. This detailed and exciting world is full of wondrous moments and brutal fights as the excellent Souls gameplay finds itself being utilised in a freshly open-world format. The variety of ways you can approach combat and the sheer volume of viable tools you can use to take down gruesome and frightening foes makes for an experience that never gets old. A game unwavering in its vision, Elden Ring stands out as a monumental 2022 release.
Overall, Elden Ring is slightly held back by some lacking information in the UI, the uneven nature of the difficulty towards the endgame, and the inconsistent performance on the PC platform. Despite this, it's an incredible experience and will be one of the best games you’ll play this year.
Any new From Software game comes with a lot of expectations, and Elden Ring delivers. It's a thrilling adventure that provides a wonderful sense of discovery through an expertly crafted world, seamlessly incorporating the excellent combat and encounters the studio is known for. The level of difficulty may be off-putting for some, but Elden Ring is so fantastic that it's absolutely worth fighting through to the end.
Elden Ring is everything we dream of and much more. It is the natural evolution of a franchise that has captivated several generations and is now ready to capture many more. Elden Ring will be the most talked about game of the next decade. It's proof that FromSoftware is a master of its craft and a testament that it dominates the genre it has created. Those who try to do something similar will remain mere imitators: they will never reach the level of sophistication achieved in Elden Ring.
While no one wants to call Game of the Year in March, Elden Ring stands at the top of a very tall hill. If you play one game this year, make it Elden Ring.
Dark Souls fans rejoice! Elden Ring is exactly the game you have been hoping it would be, I think, and it is created in grand style. I feel pretty frustrated that the keyboard controls are either so broken or so poorly laid out that I just couldn’t figure them out, and I spent a lot of time trying to (and where some things lie in the menu system are crazy counterintuitive), and I installed it on two different machines to see if it was a hardware problem (note: didn’t help). Elden Ring actually made me want to go back and play Skyrim again, because it always seemed to me that GUI was very well laid out and just made sense. But for you gamepad guys, sharpen up your sword and get in there. You have blood to spill (a lot of which may be your own).
Despite some technical glitches, Elden Ring has managed to be a satisfying, surprising and fully-experienced game.
You will enjoy this game if you can stomach the abuse that Elden Ring dishes out. Even if you cannot, there is so much out there that you can do if you aren't afraid of running from scary fights. Some locations can be less fun than others, and some bosses create skill-based stopgaps. Elden Ring is all about picking yourself up, dusting yourself off, and sometimes finding something more enjoyable to do. It's worth the investment.
Every once in a while, a game comes around that takes the world by storm, becoming an instant classic. Not only is Elden Ring one such game, it is also one of the most profound among them. FromSoftware’s first foray into the open world genre is nothing short of breathtaking. It effortlessly balances exploration and tough-as-nails action gameplay in a way that has seldom been seen before. While not entirely flawless, it manages to instill a sense of wonder that will make even the most hardened of players feel like a kid again. Although it stumbles, Elden Ring is still leaps and bounds ahead of the competition.
An extraordinary sum of the knowledge From Software gained during the years. A bona fide peak of the soulslike genre, enormous and brutal, and capable of magnifying both the bad aspects of the genre and the good ones. The great parts greatly obscure the bad ones though, making for a game that will be talked about for a long time.
Elden Ring is an incredible game that takes the "soulslike" formula and declines it within a vast and dense world full of elements arranged with extreme care. It is a demanding experience, which requires the player's focus and a high desire to explore and experiment: it gives the best of itself when the player is ready to explore the huge Lands Between. Its world design has made the structures of the previous soulslike games obsolete. Simply a new milestone for its genre.
Elden Ring is a superb take on the soulslike genre, an astonishing evolution and a decisive step forward for From Software's scale of ambition. Elden Ring is a dream come true for every fan of Miyazaki's works.
I can't say if Elden Ring will be something genuinely new or more of the same to players who have already battled through the other From Software titles, but playing it felt to me like something I haven't experienced before. I was incredibly stressed, I considered quitting out of frustration several times, but I never stopped having fun and wanting to play just a little bit longer.
Elden Ring is the sum of FromSoftware's experience, poetics and playful approach: a title in which the undisputed skills of the team converge and explode.
FromSoftware has opened up metaphorically and its bet has paid off. Elden Ring is a solid contender for Game of the Year 2022 despite any technical issues it may have.
The world of the Elden Ring is full of surprises and hard-fought battles with new, imaginative possibilities, to make every choice meaningful.
Elden Ring is an absolute triumph that will surely please all of the many players eager to get their hands on it.
Elden Ring isn't a perfect FromSoftware game, but it's a remarkable evolution of nearly everything people loved or detested about the developer's past works. It's found what feels like an agreeable balance between accommodating newcomers and alleviating frustrations while maintaining the signature difficulty expected from the studio.
Simply put, Elden Ring is Miyazaki and FromSoftware’s magnum opus. It feels like the vision for the genre has reached its final form. Elden Ring is a meticulously crafted game, with a world begging to be explored and experienced. It is truly mesmerizing in its scope, an astonishing success and everything I had hoped it would be. Forget what you knew about the genre, the real Soulsborne starts here, with Elden Ring.
Elden Ring is the apex of the Soulsborne formula, but if you thought this instance will be easier to play and to beat, you’ll have to put your foolish ambitions to rest. The adventure in the Land-Between open world is a work of art and definitely unforgettable.
Elden Ring manages to take everything that makes Dark Souls games stand out, and then apply it on a much larger scale, in a huge and complex world. The exploration and combat are rich, challenging and satisfying, and there's a constant sense of new things to discover everywhere. But many shortcuts have been taken. The game has some flaws and technical limitations, such as shaky multiplayer and a sometimes frustrating camera. Without being an absolute revolution, Elden Ring offers a unique vision of open world gaming, and it stands as a new model of the genre.
Elden Ring is a fantastic RPG for any hardcore gamer looking for a new world to explore. Combat is weighty and takes place in a wonderfully intriguing world full of dungeons to explore and monsters to battle. The only downside is that its high difficulty will be a stumbling block that will continue to put some players off, despite the improved accessibility that comes with the open-world format.
With its new open-world dimension, Elden Ring brilliantly fleshes out FromSoftware's already highly effective formula and offers Souls a spiritual sequel that is both ambitious and accessible. All the new features converge towards this last objective: the open world allows you to arm yourself more than ever with the epic and obligatory fights that the adventure reserves, without having the impression of walking around just to farm. And the best part is that it doesn't compromise the sense of accomplishment so important to the genre. Elden Ring is a complete, mysterious experience, where curiosity is tirelessly renewed by the feeling of discovering something for the first time. All with a sumptuous artistic direction, which makes you want to get lost, to explore. The title also welcomes new features that offer strategic choices in combat, without betraying their requirement. We only regret a slight lack of ambition for certain Legacy Dungeons, as well as the recycling of some assets and bosses. Overall, an exceptional title.
An open world action RPG from FromSoftware that reaches new heights, but spends too much time in the familiar.
With Elden Ring, FromSoftware adds new ingredients to the Dark Souls formula, creating a world that is an absolute masterpiece. Combat remains as fluid as we’re used to, providing us with even more tools to master and ignite our sadomasochistic tendencies. The game's plot is often impenetrable and requires a tremendous investment to decipher it, but they payoff is there, if have the time and soul to endure it.
FromSoftware returns with all of its traditional offerings in Elden Ring, but the real star of the show is its exceptional open world.
After having finished my first playthrough of Elden Ring. I immediately want to play it again. I have never experienced that with an open-world game before - usually, I find myself thankful such behemoth games are over. FromSoftware has managed to nimbly incorporate its deliberate and challenging action RPG gameplay into an open world with a huge sense of freedom. The fact that they accomplished this feat without compromising on difficulty or narrative is a true marvel. Managing to also avoid almost all of the pitfalls of conventional open-world design is a step beyond even that. Even if you're fatigued over the familiar trappings of dark fantasy soulslike games in particular, Elden Ring is a masterful refinement of the formula that is the current zenith of its form - and it deserves glowing recognition.
A gorgeous and wonderful open world adventure full of discovery, magic, and the same threat that exemplifies FromSoftware's Souls series. Elden Ring is more than another Dark Souls Game, mixing a natural evolution of the series with an open world concept and a greater level of accessibility for those that want to experience the infamous You Died screen.
It’s hard to review Elden Ring without being comparative; that’s because Elden Ring is an evolutionary step, not a revolutionary one, and one can’t help but see how it’s built on what came before. Here is a massive undertaking of a game, not for the sake of chasing trends but as the natural progression of the style the company has been fostering for over a decade. It’s amazing how smoothly the transition to open world was and how much of the Souls identity is still present. In the short time since its release, it has already left a cultural mark, no doubt a result of the game’s increased approachability. Even after sifting past all the hype and grandiosity, there’s still an excellent game left and Elden Ring is a clear showcase of FromSoftware’s outstanding expertise in the field. Elden Ring really is just that good.
Elden Ring is massive, sometimes to its detriment. A thorough walkthrough might take up more than 100 hours to complete, and at some point it becomes clear that From Software did not have enough manpower to produce that much unique content. Still, it remains incredibly addictive even after those 100 hours pass…
While the technical issues of the barebones PC port and the familiar trappings of the open world formula substantially soured my experience, Elden Ring is still an impressive achievement of fusing compelling world design, exploration and combat.
Elden Ring is a new gold standard for open-world game design, dishing out some of the best freeform exploration since The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild. Curiosity is rewarded at every turn and secrets truly feel secret. For Souls veterans, the number of tools available adds a new level of depth to its combat that makes constant experimentation worthwhile. Even with those strengths, it’s hard to outright ignore the ugly quirks in FromSoftware’s games, which stick out even more on new tech. A stubbornness to fix archaic issues holds back what should be a once-in-a-generation game, but Elden Ring is still a landmark accomplishment in any case.
Elden Ring is a potentially great game that is hindered by massive performance issues. It doesn’t do anything particularly genre-defining, as it mostly sticks to what FromSoftware always does. It will no doubt please fans of the Dark Souls series. But its lack of accessibility options and somewhat restrictive multiplayer may leave some wanting. Ultimately, I think it will potentially offer a better experience down the line, as the day-one patch has already changed some fundamentals of the game. With no real improvement regarding its performance on PC, Elden Ring is a hard game to recommend until a more stable version is available.
Elden Ring is a wonderful action-RPG that features thrilling combat, an amazing open world, and tons of replay value. Unfortunately, its PC performance needs work.
Elden Ring is an experience that will not be forgotten in a hurry. It's a tremendous, hulking, massive achievement but because it is tremendous, hulking and massive, it is one that comes with many caveats. The shelves in CeX and conversations with people who stopped playing at Stormveil castle can certainly attest to some of those caveats. Much like any FromSoftware title, it's not going to be for everybody, but paradoxically it is one of their hardest and one of their most accessible to date. It offers huge value in one package, and perhaps is a little too much value, only becoming clearer when nearing the endgame. Don't be mistaken by the criticism, though. This is a phenomenal achievement with a moment-to-moment that is incredibly engaging and immersive. No doubt it will be deserving of the end-of-year accolades it will inevitably receive. One pushes through Elden Ring as one pushes through life, with all the highs and the lows that it brings.
That's the thing about Elden Ring, its open world has your back, in its own - often painful - way. Souls has always been about inching through claustrophobic corridors and bashing your skull against whatever's in the way. You compare foreheads with friends, "Look at this bruise Barry, that's me five hours in". And Barry would probably peel his hair back and reveal the exact same bruise. Adventures in past Souls games tend to line up, as you're all wandering down the same pathways. But that's not the case with Elden Ring. You might show your bruise to Barry and he'll peel his hair back to reveal a scar or a massive indent or a tattoo of a mouse tustling with a skeleton. Both of may be five hours in but you'll be on totally different trajectories. No matter how hostile the game's world may be, it pushes you to succeed and carve out your own adventures. It is, by far, the most encouraging Souls yet. [RPS Bestest Bests]
While this is probably the most accessible game the studio has made, it’s still incredibly demanding. It remains hard as hell, but now you have more options for dealing with the frustrating moments. And not only does it demand your focus and attention in a way few other games do, but now, because it’s so large, it demands much of your time as well. After 40 hours of exploring, I don’t think I’m even close to finishing the game; sometimes, it feels like I’m just getting started. Elden Ring isn’t a game you pop on for an hour a night. It’s a game that consumes you. For me, it’s becoming a lifestyle, something I still think about when I set the controller down.
Twenty-five hours in, I still have no idea what I’ll see next. It's a testament to Elden Ring that I'm so excited at the possibilities that remain, but it's also a problem that after all this time, I feel like it needs to show me more than it has so far.
This game ****. The first boss you get absolutely obliterates you and you can't progress the story without getting through him. This game belongs in the trashcan.
Intolerable framerate and frametime issues makes this game unplayable. The devs missed to meet minimum technical requirements. All in all unworthy state for what could have been a great game.
Elden Ring Is literally unmissable: its questlines, landscapes, dungeons, game mechanics and characteristics are probably among the best in all of video games' history. The level and map design Is so good you Will feel like you are in a dark fantasy world for real. I recommend you definetely play It and enjoy every second. Have fun.
The Worst game ever made by From Software, the details lack polishing, a step backward in all aspects compared to the previous work. If you want play a From Software's game, Elden Ring is the least worthwhile work to play.
Every time FromSoftware drops a game, you know you’re getting a banger, their most recent installment being no different. This game is a polished masterpiece. 1 of 2 games in my life i’ve 100%’d, the other being TES: Oblivion. Worth sinking your teeth into and holding on for a wild ride. I was hooked on this games story for a month, achievement hunting for another month, and the PVP aspect for months more after completion. This is a true example of what a video game experience should be, in a world where crapola like Call of Duty and Madden dominate the market. Thank you FromSoft for being the most consistently good thing in this industry. I cannot wait for the DLC in June.
Very poor design, really basic gameplay, just going around and killing everything that moves. Not an RPG, really!
Not perfections but as close as gaming is ever going to get. Unforgettable experience
This game bro… if you like punching, kicking, and literally shredding bosses whilst having the most fun possible, then look no further than Elden ring. If you’re going to whine and complain about the fact that you are just a degenerate who wanted the game to take fifteen years to come out only like animal crossing, try playing dishwasher simulator or Minecraft on peaceful mode. All you out there complaining about the lack of boss diversity then guess what nobody who has actually worked to beat an actual soulsborne let alone trying to platinum it, cares. You play up until the soldier of Rick, god and give up like your hometown was just bombed. Dude FromSoftware didn’t give in to all the people yelling we want more difficult, we want more difficult! you gave in to the thought that the game was to hard. It’s not. Trial and error my friend that is all I can say. If you want to beat a boss learn it’s moves then use them against them you **** some people do is fight the tree sentinel lose and then they are all like “oh woe is me” and declare the game is to hard. Most bad reviews are such bad reasons like boss design or the fact that is “open world” or “not gothic enough” get over the fact that it’s new and embrace the fingers. Come Elden lord take your place amongst the guidance of grace.
GOTY 2022 and one of the best games ever created. A unique game tha needs to be experienced by anyone who calls ****.
Elden Ring is an excellent game (GOTY 2022) and possibly the best soulslike ever created. What i really liked after 150 hours of playing and the platinum trophy is that this game wants and succeds on treating you like a clever person and not a dumb braindead gamer who only needs 2 buttons to play a game or watch 30 hours of cinematics or depend on QTEs in combat all the time. The game demands intelligence and imagination from you, from exploration to customization and from skill and technique to fast reflexes. I mean, Dark Souls 3 and Bloodborne already had these things but now they are even better. The ONLY 2 reasons that hold it back from true greatness imo (9/10 and not 10/10) are, first, the story is almost non-existent and second, the technical side in general, both in terms of graphics and music/sounds/ost, could be better. I mean, i played Hogwarts Legacy and then came back immediately to play again Elden Ring and it seemed to me like a game from 2015 or something. Nevertheless, a true must-buy for every soulslike lover or action rpg gamer in general.
One of the best souls games I have played, even on par with Dark Souls and Bloodbourne.
One of the best Open World Games of all time. It's an instant classic and an absolute pleasure to explore. From the technical side it's pretty underwhelming though... Performance is honestly terrible and the music isn't as good as DS3 or Bloodborne.
I have always struggled and gave very quickly on soulslike games but Elden Ring changed everything for **** you are still one of those please try again and stick to it until the end it will be an amazing experience and you will become a fan.
Amazing game is amazing, It's sad to see such upset people, I dont think there gamers. Anyways it's a really awesome experience everything should play it. It won Game of the year after all!
Look, it's nowhere near as bad as you've read here and other sites. It is playable, and it still looks good. If you're saving o toward a series X already, then pick this up if you're a fan of Dark Souls, or Breath of the Wild. If you're on a budget, then know that it will play just fine. It's no pokemon scarlet. If you require a 60fps experience, then you should wait til you make the move to next gen. It is certainly it's own thing, the game references are just to give an idea.
Fantastic game, love everything about, the visuals, the soundtrack, the gameplay. More FROM please!
Why is this game so much better then God of War? I notice how every negative review mentions it, and I think it deserved to beat it at the Game Awards. Sorry Kratos fanboys, you loose ;)
Fantastic game. One of the best i've played. Has everything you want, an amazing openworld, monsters to fight!
It's a shame God of War can't even compare to this game. What a shame, but oh well, we won Game of the Year!
Open world is blant. Copy paste enemies Lack of good bosses like other souls game Lore is not intresting as dark souls
It's literally just a walking simulator except you might have a greatsword sometimes.
Honestly just did not enjoy one bit and had no fun while playing and seen the blind hype that was not worth one bit again
Great game, visuals are amazing as well. I know it is a Souls game and they are supposed to be tough but man I wish they're was a difficulty setting somewhat lol.
Lord of the Rings wishes it was as epic as Elden Ring. Such a fantastic game.
I love this game, it's really fun. Alot of build variety, tons of content, and alot of fan support.
Granphic is terible in 2022 very bad story is understinable no points where to go
First off this games is amazing. On new-gen consoles. Nearly every aspect of the game is great even on old gen expect the graphics and stability,. Oh my god what went so wrong when optimizing the game for the Xbox one? Frames barely manage to hit 40 even on 1080p resolution. This was because the game loads the shaders of an object when the user first sees them instead of loading them during the load screens, meaning the frames take a huge dip. Some times the frames can stoop as low as 10! It took me nearly 40 hours of playtime for the frames to reach a playable rate. The graphics are terrible on least gen( I don't know if that is my TV or not). Also the camera can be quite janky at times. Now for the good side of things, the combat mechanics are killer, there are so many options you can fine tune out to create your own play-style, and fromsoft has created a satisfying gameplay loop. The boss designs are unique and spectacular. The story although hard to figure out is quite amazing. And the music is awesome, the open world( on new-gen) is quite breathtaking and vast . If you are on a PC or on a new gen console I'd recommend this to you, but if you are on last gen then unless you like 35 frames at the beginning of your game don't buy this until 8 months after launch.
ss23 says it perfectly (With Elden Ring, Fromsoft proves it has finally lost sight of what makes their games fair and rewarding and has caved in completely to artificial difficulty. Fights in this game are either trivial or littered with poorly thought out fast attacks and combos, with dramatic AOE effects in bossrooms to cover up the horrible design choices. The gameplay has barely changed since DS3 and does not equip the player with the appropriate toolset to handle its range of enemies. Even worse, they have somehow regressed in quality, with slower rolls, less i frames, input buffering, input delay, inputs disappearing. The damage done in the last third of the game is so bizarre that I cannot even begin to comprehend the thought process. It feels like From really wanted to make an open world game, designed a huge and interconnecting map, and everything else just played second fiddle: littering the landscape with uncreative, sparse and repeated dungeons and encounters, scrapping together unused boss and enemy designs from previous games and slapping it together without thorough playtesting or thoughtful user-oriented design. In summary, after several hundred hours of From games, this is the game that has now tarnished my image of From as a company that holds their games to high standards and respects the player.) i cant say it better.
By far the worst souls game ever made, the open world is extremely boring and full of copy+paste content. There is no fun way to traverse the open world. Boss fights are low quality and again a lot of them are copy+paste, I am talking about big story bosses that get shamelessly reused! It shows that FromSoftware didn't have enough time to develop this game properly. The boring empty open world is filled with wannabe pokemon summons called spirit ashe summons, you like collecting pokemons in your souls games? I don't. There is no meaningful reward, the game is too big for its own good, next time provide less quantity and more QUALITY, like previous souls games.
Very very good, definitely fromsoft's best work yet, a fantastic open world, which is usually a design that I hate, but they really pulled it off.
Now that the casuals have got bored of angrily hammering in 1/10 reviews because they died a few times rather than achieving instant gratification, hopefully the reviews will become a little more representative.
Amazing game, one of my favorites has the best balance of all of FROM's game
I am gonna keep this short, this game was amazing I just beat it and I **** at souls games even a new player with time and effort can smash through this. Combat is good I only had minor problems like when going into a boss room and being hit by a stray soldier clipping me with his hammer as I try and fight a field boss. through the fog wall. Weapons and magic amazing in this game and most starting classes are very generous with starting equipment I used the starting land of reeds armor well into the game before I changed got frustrated at a few bosses but like I stated earlier it is time plus effort. I would not call this a game for a casual players but if you like a bit of a challenge I could not recommend this game enough, I cannot remember the last time I had this much fun playing a game maybe when Dragon age origins came out. I see a lot of people say the graphics are bad, I do not see that it is a really pretty game. I wanna give it a ten but I did have slight problems with it hammers and swords clipping through walls to take my last minuscule bit of health.
QUANTITY OVER QUALITY Meme Ring, id est, Dark Souls 3 with a horse, copy paste enemies, boring cringy choir music, only 8 unique boss fights, and broken overpowered ashes of war for the CASULS. Carefully crafted by From Software to cater to the mindless masses who are blind sheep and bought this LIE because some overrated writers name was attached to it and who cannot see that Miyazaki is a one-trick-pony who makes the same game over and over again. At least it has no microtransactions. All in all this game would have been better if some of the content was cut because if you are going to buy this prepare to fight the same copy pasted bosses over and over again. From fanbois are idiots lol.
Just look at the low score reviews to see it's literally all just a bunch of little kids. The game works perfectly fine, and it's most definitely the most accessible Souls game for new players that From has released thus far. I've played them all, but only finished DS1.
Best goddamn game ever played, I've beaten all dark souls games and even though on Xbox one it runs not the best, the creators of this game had a passion and still looks jaw dropping at every turn. I'm 100 hours in and Every time I think I'm done the game gets bigger and fresher
Almost flawless masterpiece, easy GOTY with some of the best mechanics and visuals of any game to date. Not only does it masterfully use the souls style gameplay, it also innovates beautifully upon it. To anyone willing to "git gud" and use their rage and pain as a fuel for pushing through this game, I greatly recommend. Also, I can assure you that 90% of the 0 rates are skill issues.
so BIG, so deep, so interesting, like nextgen zelda. Many secrets, many interesting bosses, many locations. U play the game and game doesn't meant to end.
TLDR recap: - no local multiplayer (two family members would need two systems and two disks) $$$$ stupid - the skill level needed, constant dying, almost non-existent margin of error for the average gamer make the game WAYYYYY less fun. I didn't come here for a part time job. (and this is coming from someone who beat Targit at lvl 23 with an Astrologer) - forced into pvp just to play with friends. Stupid, lazy, and bordering on straight up jerkdom (1) No true local multiplayer. A family needs TWO xbox units & TWO disks to play what I should be able with one each. It borders on criminal negligence in today's game market. Period. (2) First From Software game. To say the survival learning curve is hideous is a laugh. You die over and over for no reason other than developers thinking it's FUN for professional people with families wanting to relax playing a video game. There's no such luck with this title. I understand learning a game and getting better skill, but there is no margin for error for simple mistakes. This is coming from someone who killed Margit at lvl 23 as an Astrologer...farmed the meteorite staff etc....I researched. I improved skill. Still the learning curve is STEEP and unnecessarily harsh. Think of the average player not the try hards or make tiers like so many other games do to fix it. (3) Forcing me to play multiplayer in today's gaming world when I don't want to adds to my frustration. So I have to have two systems and two disks to play the game with family already and NOW you force us to play pvp vs randoms if we try to play with help. It doesn't make the game fun for those that don't want pvp. Just stop it. It borders on being jerks to your player base. It's lazy. Make a separate pvp system without forcing us to comply with it. Fix these three issues and my rating goes to a 9.
I love the open world and the bosses are amazing and I love the absolute brain blowing difficulty
I can't believe that people on older Xbox One or One S platforms are complaining because it isn't optimized for them and therefore "is a terrible game". Or that people are saying that graphics are bad. If you're playing on a console from 2013 (original Xbox One) of COURSE it isn't going to look great. Just like every other game in the past few years. It's a weak argument and it's about time to catch up if you want to play brand new games.
Has the worst camera, lock on system and controls mechanics ever in a video game!!! Completely ruins everything good about game. Controlls are absolutely broken! Hit a button and 3 seconds later stops swinging sword. Remove delay in controls and jumping backwards in neutral on stick immediately!!! Every time you try an impossible jump and hold run you jump backwards off a cliff. The worst part is leveling up. You can't just play the game through. You'll have to spend weeks fighting the same enemies unnecessarily and repeatedly because game is so short otherwise and makes feel like boring work to the point of losing interest quickly. Absolute nonsense you unable to track any of the vague quests or side ones without googling **** Devs ought to be ashamed of themselves letting it release this way. I guarantee you will die 70% of time due to piss poor camera and lock on mechanics. They deserve a one star until fixed! Put a setting to adjust camera closeness to what user wants!!! Too far away from character whole game. Toon looks 2 inches big on my 50 inch screen while moving wtf!!! Anothe story **** coming out unfinished so the can steal our money and in 600 updates might fix a few of the horrible mechanical issues. REFUND MY MONEY PLEASE IMMEDIATELY!!!
This game is going to be the best game of this year, I strongly recommend playing it on Xbox Series X, the only platform where it does not give problems with lag or fps, from software did it again but this time better than ever, it brought together the best of all the video games they have released to date in one, with a beautiful open world as well.
Never played dark soul games so this is my first. Played about 10+ hours in and enjoying it so far. I stopped caring too much about the graphics but they are great to me(I don’t have anything to compare them to). Came in with an open mind and knew that dark souls games would be difficult. Very steep learning curve but I did decide to push through and it’s paid off. Objectives would’ve been nice but I guess you can look at that half glass empty or full as to why they don’t have one in the game, but I’m enjoying my time trying to figure it out on my own. I like to read the guides on how tos and what-not online when I’m free and I find I’m more excited to pick it up again decide to work up towards whatever I was reading into. It sounds like I’m studying for an exam but it’s really not that hard to read a few things about the game online on how to do things and applying it to your play through to make it more enjoyable. People will say they don’t want to spend all this time trying to figure the game out but would scroll through Instagram for hours. Accepting death is **** in its own right. Played games all my life and this game humbled me in that regard. Not recommended for people who play games to be better than their real life counterpart. You’re not going to be OP right away or ever.
This studio always makes good games. I think it's a masterpiece. A very beautiful game. All the elements were perfect.
A complete masterpiece visuals art direction gameplay music everything about this game is completely mesmerizing
One of the best games I have played. Some issues with performance sometimes but does not take away from the experience
Another reviewer giving this game just a "7" got me thinking. This may be a game that I play for hundreds of hours. And that doesn't mean playing the game over and over. The game is that big. And there are so many playstyles you can play with. And there's so many playstyles you have to learn to guard against. Even the areas that are not full of enemies are still full of life. The more you get into the game and explore and find ways to help your character make the game not so soul-crushing, the more you will see why the love for this game is so vast. They didn't think of everything, but they came up with enough to keep most of us busy for a very long time.
i was sceptical but they did it. will list rational pro-contra eventually (still playing atm, might be the first 100% after dark souls 1 I attempted in the whole souls franchise)
Greatest game I have ever played. It has all the classic soulsbourne elements and then some, and the most detail ed open world of any game.
A masterpiece in gaming that will never be forgotten. This is generation defining.
Best game ever. Just finished it. Don’t listen to the metacritic trolls who always review bomb games because they are bored, this game is a masterpiece like no other. It will change game like Zelda Botw.
I already wrote my review under the ps5 page. Just want to boost the score after a bunch of fools tried to review bomb the game for reasons only they know. Like always with great games or great and challenging games, people show their incompetence on metacritic or other user scores, ruining sites like this completely. As if someone doesn’t buys or buys a game based on your trash reviews lol. People already know that user score is invalid. So save your time and rather learn the game. Noob.
If you activate multiplayer features in this game you also get the invasion system which is nothing but a feast for grievers and can‘t be deactivated. Which makes it impossible to play a relaxed coop session. If you don‘t care it might be a great game.
Truly beautiful game . Much to explore gameplay is very nice and the magic is beautiful .
Probably the single greatest adventure game I have ever touched. Literally not a single problem running the game and have only encountered a few, very minor glitches. The difficulty is perfect with the first major boss, Margit, being a massive skill check. I can not possibly see how anyone can give this masterpiece below a 9 unless they have no clue how to hold a controller and have the iq of a new born child. My experience is a 10 but I’m willing to put it down to a 9.9 for any sort of lag issues.
A beautiful and rewarding game. Elevates the soulsborne genre to new dizzying heights. The only game I will likely play for the next year and a half.
Best game purchase I've ever made in my life! The game is amazing and far surpassed the hype!!
It runs perfectly with minimal graphical interruption on my 2013 Xbone. Amazing gameplay, beautiful environment, challenging fights: this game is perfect. It's not hard for the sake of being hard. It's hard to remind you where your character sits in the lore. It's hard until you learn to play it how it needs to be played.
Gud game i like it because it's gud and you should like it too because it gud
This game is the culmination of FromSoft's previous 'already masterpieces.' A game that perfectly balances the tantalizing unknown of an exploration world with the skill curve achievable to explore it all.
GOTC Game of the century. This game is simply one if the best that fromsoftware has launched in the last years.
Its like dark souls and the witcher 3 had a baby open world fun and like any souls game hard af to all you wussys who want a easy mode get good or go home
Best game ever made, especially if you're a FromSoftware fan. Don't let anyone else tell you otherwise.
13 years down the line from Demon Souls and we have pretty much been given the same game albeit is a vastly bigger world. Given that this will draw in a huge Souls fan base there really is no need for games mechanics and upgrading of character and weapons to be made so unclear for new players to the franchise. The difficulty is pretty steep from the beginning so newer players would benefit from studying co-op options as a priority. Art direction is pretty decent but overall the graphics are just not good enough by todays standard. Having said all that I am mostly enjoying my play through and will no doubt spend hundreds of hours exploring. Good game but no I would not call this a masterpiece. DKS1 remains my favourite game of all time. Ignore the reviews giving 0 score, typical 14 year old meta critic trolls.
Just not that much fun. Story is pitiful, there is no learning curve for new players (i.e. me). Just grind on nothing creatures until you can muster enough points to maybe kill a boss or two. If you are new to this series just don't.
I have never played any of the Souls games before, but being a connoisseur of RPGs and hearing of this supposedly legendary RPG series I felt it was time I finally bit the bullet. I figured with Martin penning the game's story it would be rather grand involving political intrigue and riveting tales of man's inner folly. Having grown up on D&D and CRPGs I expected to have a fair idea of what I was getting into. Much to my surprise, I found a vast open world filled with nothing to do. I created my character to wander around some lifeless void. Oh, it looks rather grand the art direction is quite phenomenal though the textures muddied and the game is plagued with pop-ins as well. I am able to forgive the occasional jank for a good and true RPG. I however did not find one in this game. I'm not sure what constitutes for an RPG these days amongst the general public, but generally it's a game with roleplaying options of which this game seems to have none other than building your character's stats and skills. All problems are solved through this game's languid, ponderous, and clunky combat. No non-combat or social options in this supposed RPG. The exploration as as dull and lifeless as the world in which it inhabits. Some scant crafting materials to create some mediocre items with minimal stat gains. Undoubtedly the usual carrot and the stick seen in the MMO sphere influenced this trash itemization. The dungeons were quite interesting and a more linear experience and I killed Margit after ten or twelve tries. The game's molasses combat was made even more frustrating due to the various technical issues that plague this supposed RPG (Hint it's not an RPG it's just combat pornography) Your character's hitboxes are far too large causing the enemies to strike you frequently when you're clearly outside of their swing radius. There's also numerous frame rate drops making the game's sole feature of combat extremely difficult since the technical execution of the developers lack of talent is holding you back further than the difficulty of the game is. All in all this game is not an RPG, there are no roleplaying options. It's just combat pornography for the youth's violent **** sadist rituals. If you have any class avoid this buggy mess like the plague it is and cast it into the fire! I for one got a full refund from my local gamestore, but I hope to save others the expense. We all know this game doesn't deserve a perfect score. Roleplay 0 out of 100 Music 20 out of 100 Story 0 out of 100 Gameplay 0 out of 100 Don't let reviewers beholden to the gaming industry cheat you hard working folks out of your money!
Buddy told me to check this game out I used to play some action games back on the PS2. Not really my jam these days, but I figured what they hell why not. Let me tell you this is no God of War. Booted this game up thought it looked okay, kind of like an old 360 game, but whatever. Must be a good story or something. Speaking of story I guess other than the one eyed girl and the crappy cutscene there isn't really one. Figured since it had the Game of Thrones writer on it it may be cool, but I guess this is the reason why everyone hates the damned show now. He must not be very good, probably another SJW propped up by the hollywood elites. Dodge mechanics are pretty clunky and don't seem to work quite right.. Seems like your character's hit box is larger than Nancy Pelosi's slush fund. Clipping seems to guarantee that the enemies kill you through walls and rocks and other crap, but you never seem to go through them. I presume it's some intentional feature to create a faux sense of challenge to the game. The alternative is that the programmers lack the technical wherewithal to pull of what they're striving for. Now that I think on that though it's probably the latter with the number of bugs this game has. Frame rate drops are pretty harsh and consistently occur on boss encounters. Maybe it would have been a cool game if the story was any interesting or if the developers were worth a lick, but they seem to be reaching for the stars when they can't even grab the dirt off the floor very well. Play God of War any of them and hard if you wanna play a real good game. I'll be taking this back to gamestop and telling them the damned thing is broken to get my money back because it's just awful.
What a beautiful and perfect game. Easily one of my favorites of all time. If you haven't played you need to play it! You will love it!
Story is virtually non-existent they were happier than hell to plug George R R Martin's name all over the marketing materials, but I'm not sure what he did. About as much work as he does on his own series I'd surmise, which is NOTHING. You get what amounts to lore dumps on scrolls and flavor text on items passing as a "story." There's no major narrative structure. The "revolutionary" open world is hollow, lifeless, and boring. I've seen more intriguing open worlds in PS3 games. Speaking of PS3 games that's basically what you're getting here in the visuals department. I guess the AAA industry is so exhausted from bribing publishers and youtubers to give them good scores they don't even bother with the graphics anymore. Art direction is however stunning, seems to be where they spent most of their time. Gameplay is seriously bogged down by numerous bugs and technical issues. Frame rate drops, save crashing, stuttering, janky animations, clipping errors, you name it this game has it. I guess all the 10/10 reviews are based on where the game will be in 2 years once they fix the bugs? That's some optimism for you! Story: 0/10 Graphics: 5/10 Gameplay: 1/10 Technical issues -2
An excellent soulslike with a much bigger world and giant creatures! We have all the familiar ingredients in Demon Souls, Dark Souls Trilogy, Bloodborne and Sekiro, but now with some additional abilities including mount to navigate an open world.
This game is awesome, gameplay perfect and a ver hardware dificulty. Is the best game of From Software.
'When you've finished your 4th Black Forest gateau - here, have another, and try not to puke' Putting 5-10 hours into this game gave me both a skinking sense of deja-vu and the feeling of forcing myself to eat **** of overly sweet cake. If, like me, you have played this series since Demon's Souls, you will realise Elden Ring is Dark Souls 4. Or Demon's Souls 2 - It doesn't really matter at this point. Other than the *slightly* more open world structure (the 'Souls series was always somewhat open in structure) and Torrent the goathorse, everything is exactly the same as all the previous games, including elements from Bloodborne and Sekiro. Same player classes and animations? Same enemy design, including enemy types/classes? Same pseudo-mediaeval world, with lonely atmosphere? Same dead-eyed, hollow-voiced NPCs? Same controls and combat system? Same telling of the opaque story and world lore through item descriptions? Same, boring, grindy progression system? Same die-and-die-again repetitive gameplay? Enroaching feeling that you are wasting your life playing updates to the same game released well over a decade ago? 'Yes' to all of the above. Mashing together your previous 4 games and adding a horse is in no way innovative or good, by any metric. This is one of the laziest 'masterpieces' I have ever seen. It used to be fun, but its just the same bland thing over and over again. Utterly sickening - i hope you like cake. And then more cake. After a palate cleanser of cake. All washed down with a warm glass of cake, chewed up and regurgitated into a pint glass by Hidetaka Miyazaki.
This is probably the best Action RPG I ever played so far, it's challenging, always surprising, artistically stunning, I can't really find any gameplay flaws, it's just a joy to play for hours and hours.
A big map doesn't make a better game. Uninteresting, bland and boring. Doesn't deserve any of it's perfect scores. Heck, doesn't deserve more than a 6 if you stretch it a lot. The controls are just as bad as the "story" and visuals. The character feels heavy and moves so slow. Feels clunky. Sound was also uninteresting. Nothing sticks to mind. So, a very below average game that was overhyped by possibly one of the most toxic fanbases there are. This kind of game needs to stop being produced.
Played on Xbox one S and there is some fps drops and the graphics aren’t cutting edge. But I think complaining ab the graphics is stupid cause there’s nothing wrong with 2017 graphics games barely look hat much better since then. The graphics are actually astounding considering the atmosphere it sets and the inspired world it displays. Especially considering how huge the world is. How detailed was BOTW, still one of the best games. That being said I don’t wanna continue playing the game until they fix the input lag. There’s no reason for it to be a half second delay and the excuse that the run button is the same as the roll button is completely stupid bc it was the same way in the OG dark souls. Fix that and fps and no complaints, it would be one of the best games ever. Fixed input lag by messing with TV and Cbox settings and can confirm it’s one of the best open world games out there.
If you’re a fan of high fantasy, open world rpgs and the soulsbourne genre, then this is the game of your dreams. The world & character design is amazing. The scale of the world, the density, the verticality are incredible. There’s nothing else like it. Ignore the trolls reviews binging this game, it’s a masterpiece.
It's a historic masterpiece. ELDEN RING　This is my favorite work. This is the most important work in my life. Excellent as a fantasy.
The rating that the xbox one edition has got is beyond unfair, this game is fantastic, with amazing visuals, design, combat, soundtrack etcetera, I can't even think of any negatives to this game.
Elden Ring is a good game, but... The game has a big optimization problem. Looks like it's from 2017 on the graphisc. Musics bad. You should be ashamed of bluepoint. If we leave this aside there's a lot of sloppy work in the game. They enlarged a normal enemy in sekiro, bloodborne and dark souls and added it to the game as a boss. The venues were the same. How many more times will you use Anor Londo? Even the animations are the same. Aren't you ashamed to do this? I don't understand how they give 10 to this game. Did you get any money from the producers? Horizon F.W. 88 Elden Rind 97. Engrossing...
Superb ! With 20 hrs in it runs perfectly on xbox one x except for the login error for multiplayer which has now been resolved.
Fellow Tarnished heed my words, there are some fools rating this game zero, thou must be aware of thy duty is to rate it 10.
The Xbox One version is just as great as Xbox series version which is the best version of Elden Ring and that Xbox has VRR which makes Elden Ring at most max fps, unlike playstation version. Xbox version has better resolution and better framerate of Elden Ring. VRR does so great! Love the bosses in Elden Ring
Amazing game, graphics and performance, boss fights and gameplay. Game of the year 2022!
Is it fun? Yes. Is it in a playable state? Kinda. Should you wait until the patch that fixes the stuttering and FPS issues comes out to buy it? Yes. So far Good but need improvements and better optimization .
Online issues were fixed very fast. The game is a masterpiece! I’ve never played a game this good. I am in love.
Software and Game industry should hire more testers and QA engineers to avoid buggy and terrible performance launches like this,
FRAME RATE DROPS AND GRAPHICS AREN'T AS IMPORTANT AS THE GAMEPLAY. This game is amazing. The story, the music, the art style, the gameplay itself is all absolutely amazing. If you are debating on getting this game and love other Fromsoftware games: GET THIS GAME! It's incredibly fun, has good stealth, lots to do, great co-op and A LOT of fun. Seriously, it's the best game I've played in years.
Elden Ring is a joy and a masterpiece. It's not only one of the best RPGs, but it's one of the best games in general.
I cannot describe this as a masterpieceI cannot describe this masterpiece. It is one of the best games I have played in my career as a player. The graphics and production are artistic. It is a game goat.
Beautiful game, where players are finally treated as gamers and not idiots. Exploration is incentivized by knowing one might discover cool dungeons and areas, the story is, as usual with this developer, quite cryptic but very enjoyable to find and combat is super good and satisfying. Very cool characters, and superb lore. Not a 10 only because, after a certain point in the game, it feels like the difficulty spike gets higher not because of harder mechanics, but simply because enemies start dealing more damage, to the point that many could simply one-shot you directly.
i have never been a fan of the Souls, i played Dark Souls years and years ago, never finished DS 2... never bought DS3. I bought Elden Ring to play with some friends and to give this franchise a second chance, it felt good for the first run but the story is a mess (as always) and the open world expands the difficutlies to understand what to do and where... most of the time i didn't know what i was doing and why. The gameplay is really enjoyable, i don't know the overall level of DS3 but the better mobility in ERhas been a good choice by FromSoftware. The game is ok , i think i will do more runs but i am not interested in buying the dlc really soon neither
Founding stone of videogame, as an a entertainment product and as an artistic product. If you like play and enjoy videogames, you have to at least gave it a try, even if you don’t like soulslike.
Greatest Game of All Time without a doubt we dont even need any comment on it play and you will see it and dont you ever cry about game being hard. Not only ''get gud'' but there is other million ways to make the game easier so stop being a crybaby about it
I'm usually more of a platformer girly (Crash Bandicoot, The Messenger, Celeste), and this is my first time trying a fromsoftware game, but I loved every bit of it. I put 168hrs into it to do a lot of the questlines, do several of the evergaols, explore most of each area, and beat all of the main bosses and most of the harder extra bosses (including Malenia!). Despite having no experience with these types of games, I found it very accessible. I refused to get help with the bosses (my husband is a big fromsoft fan and a seasoned souls player, so he offered many times to help lol), so I worked through those fights on my own, and I found it so rewarding to learn the boss moves and finally beat a boss I had been working on for a while. I thought it was a truly exhilarating experience and was also captivated by the art, character models, music and various story lines!
The Worst game ever made by From Software, the details lack polishing, a step backward in all aspects compared to the previous work. If you want play a From Software's game, Elden Ring is the least worthwhile work to play.
Elden Ring the BEST A Big Open World that really give the fun to explore, no boring. Not just "big". Every corner of the open world are darkness scary but yet beautiful and gorgeous Hard combat that teach us not to give up Deep impression character NPC Hard and impression bosses every were needed to play this game
The frame rate is always consistent, even on ps4. The combat is very good, it has improved upon older souls games like dark souls. It has a massive open world with over a hundred unique bosses. Its probably the one of, if not the best open world games i ever played. Altough its not perfect, for instance pvp ****, whenever i invade someone, i always get into multi fights which i find unfair and unfun. Even tho, there a lot of unique, it also has a lot of copy paste bosses. But as a whole, the game is great.
Elden Ring is simply an outstanding game which represents a remarkable accomplishment in the realm of open-world gaming, skillfully merging FromSoftware's intense combat mechanics with awe-inspiring exploration. The expansive and stunning world is brimming with hidden mysteries waiting to be uncovered, while the diverse character customization options provide players with unparalleled freedom. The challenging boss fights deliver a thrilling and demanding experience, establishing its status as one of the finest action RPGs to date. Nevertheless, some may find the difficulty progression to be lacking, as the only strong areas are the optional ones which present a greater challenge compared to the main storyline. Despite this minor setback, Elden Ring is a must-have for enthusiasts of immersive journeys and intricate world design.
This is best game I have ever played. For context, if there is an easy. mode, I will absolutely take it, so learning how to overcome this game (and platinum it) was a new and rewarding experience for me. I loved the process: I had to get stuck, pivot, research, explore and ultimately get better. Then I could take on that boss who was so terrifying before. Its so satisfying discovering the right strat for you. Visually and narratively, I found it imaginative and immersive. I loved that the tree would subconsciously guide you to where you need to go. I felt like the characters would just give you enough to go on to peak your curiosity about their quest lines although saying this, I don’t know how I could have completed all of them without guides. I don’t think thats a bad thing, I love doing the research and it’s been fun to watch how other players solve the various narrative puzzles. I really loved the fact that I didn't feel like the game designers weren’t telling me exactly what to do, how to behave and what to think - like so many games nowadays do. I find that to be so patronising and just…yucky… so for me I didn’t feel like they were inserting themselves or their political messages into my time of escapism. So hiphiphooray for that! I love that every NG+ presents itself with a new opportunity to experience the game differently- a new strat, a new build, a respec, more items to find, a different ending to aim for. I haven’t even spent much time in multiplayer, so that’s something I want lto try next, but only after Sekiro! Overall, it’s a rewarding a high quality gaming experience. Thanks Miyazaki and team for all the hard work and love put into it!
After over 100 hours of gameplay and a platinum trophy, I'd say this is an excellent game, though not quite as legendary as some of From's own previous titles. However, this is the most accessible and simply fun game From Software has made. There is more variety is weapons/items than ever, and it is easier than Bloodborne/Sekiro/Dark Souls that came before. I truly don't understand the difficulty complaints. The game is hardest at the beginning, but gets progressively easier as you continue. I probably died about 10 times in my first playthrough, and I'd say I'm about average skill level. Elden RIng gives you more opportunity to overcome challenges through clever use of the tools available to you than any previous From Software game. There are creative damage buffs, spirit ashes, enemy weaknesses, etc. The game is easy after you get the mimic spirit ash. If you're feeling overwhelmed by an area, you probably need to go somewhere else first that will be easier. Last thing I'll say is that this game is a lot more enjoyable if you try to relax and avoid a completionist mindset, which can be exhausting given the open-world structure.
Perfection & Innovation pure within the SoulsGames the《Individuality》Players LvUp decisions directly impact the collision feedback and physics within the game, gameplay kinetix. Huge open world exploration strong optic art°design audio visually atmosphere and everything perfect originality in the entire content quality. NPC & online co•op for the playjoy value. Indeed recommendation for most varied genre players 《 MUSTPLAY 》
I haven't finished the game yet and I already have 30 hours of playing, this game is simply massive. Really, every corner of the game has something to explore. For me, it is, for sure, in my top five games ever. If not, it is the best. It is a really good game, and everyone should have the chance to play it, if you have money to buy a game, this one is a very good choise and you will not regret it.
Possibly the best open world game I've played, the world is interesting and is one of the few games that I would gladly watch a lore video on, the limits for builds is basically nonexistent and you can center around whatever, a specific stat, spell, Ash of war, or making a weapon as good as possible, the story is fascinating and the characters you can interact with are often somewhat sympathetic though many of their questlines end rather tragically. The bosses are unique and difficult to fight even early game and while many bosses are used multiple times it isn't as negative as it is made out to be due to the sheer size of the world and how unlikely it is for you to see everything and fight every boss. The weapons and armour are well made and have detailed designs, from the most obvious colours to the most difficult to see engravings. Overall I greatly enjoyed the game despite the frustration it often made me feel and I can't wait to experience the games that led to this masterpiece
I played Elden Ring on the PS4 because I didn’t play it on the PS5 at the time but even though graphics are going to be less than the PS5 version It’s really breathtaking one of the best gaming experience for me. The story of the Elden Ring attracted my attention to the game loved every moment discovering new things to the story and progressing into it really make you sit for hours, and the interaction with the NPCs and doing their quests is really amazing and to get to know the story better by doing the quest. One of the best open world game that you can play the visuals of the world are really stunning just by walking through and discovering new lands your going to get attracted by the visuals of the places. The diversity of the enemies and their move sets and abilities are really great every land you visit your going to find new enemies nothing like the ones you’ve met before them. The one thing that FromSoftware are known for is the bosses of their games, their are a lot of bosses in Elden Ring repetitively due to how big the game is but other than that, their are some bosses are really annoying due to how big their are and the boss arena but the rest are memorable bosses really loved the experience battling them and how they are different from each other from their physique, move sets and abilities and their soundtrack’s are great. I really enjoyed playing Elden Ring this is definitely one of my best experiences in gaming history. Rating: 8.9/10 (PS4 Version)
GOTY 2022 and one of the best games ever created. A unique game tha needs to be experienced by anyone who calls ****.
Elden Ring is an excellent game (GOTY 2022) and possibly the best soulslike ever created. What i really liked after 150 hours of playing and the platinum trophy is that this game wants and succeds on treating you like a clever person and not a dumb braindead gamer who only needs 2 buttons to play a game or watch 30 hours of cinematics or depend on QTEs in combat all the time. The game demands intelligence and imagination from you, from exploration to customization and from skill and technique to fast reflexes. I mean, Dark Souls 3 and Bloodborne already had these things but now they are even better. The ONLY 2 reasons that hold it back from true greatness imo (9/10 and not 10/10) are, first, the story is almost non-existent and second, the technical side in general, both in terms of graphics and music/sounds/ost, could be better. I mean, i played Hogwarts Legacy and then came back immediately to play again Elden Ring and it seemed to me like a game from 2015 or something. Nevertheless, a true must-buy for every soulslike lover or action rpg gamer in general.
Let's get this out of the way, Elden Ring is one of the hardest games I have ever played (only Sekiro was harder). With that being said, this is games overrated. The fighting mechanical are slow, clunky and sometimes non responsive. I'll admit that the exploration is great, one of the best games I have played regarding pure exploration. However, this game has a lot of problems. 1. There is no pause button, the game will keep going even if you are in a menu screen. 2. Odd reason but there are too many bosses and too many repetitive bosses. 3. The soundtrack is actually pretty mediocre. 4. The story is convoluted and honestly just dumb. 5. The voice acting is bad. 6. The graphics are alright but this game looks and feels like a slow PC game, not a game that you would play on a console. 7. This game is artificially hard in a lot of ways. By that, I mean that you're character is slow and almost every enemy is much faster than you. Another way this game is artificially hard is that certain enemies are allowed to harm you through barriers and walls (glitches that are purposely left in). 8. This game is chore to play. 9. You have to grind your ass off to get anywhere in the game. Overall, this game is just overrated.
Stellar exploration,great visuals, all the bells and whistles are there. Its unfortunate that this game has absolutely atrocious boss design particular in the late game which commit so many cardinal sins that you cannot escape the thought that this game is made with summons in mind and if you do anything else go die somewhere please. Its by far the worst From Software game. If youre looking for a game that is like that, better buy Lies of Pie.
I have 100% on every souls game except bloodborne, this is a big departure from the souls series and is a crapfest **** would much rather have recieved a shirt over this as a gift. This game is absolute garbage lies of p is a better game and that game is straight ass.
i am better at this game than Turt1e, I am actually able to beat bosses on my second time playing, unlike him I am able to beat malenia's ass with heavy weapons and a medium build
Map is very big and a bit confusing, Darksouls did it a bit better
Amazing game, an amazing world, amazing bosses, amazing weapons, amazing animations. The only problem is that it has so much content, that it becomes like terraria, and you have to have a Wikipedia open in order to understand things properly.
Being a Miyazaki's Souls game already make it better than 90% of games out there, i want to make that clear, but i got some problems with it:I think the open world adds nothing good to the souls formula, sure, we finally have a open world game with top-tier level design castles and dungeons, but souls-games already had that. On the other hand i think that being open world actually hurts some aspect of the souls experience, like NPC Quests, which were already weird and messy on normal souls, but now it's just impossible to keep track or discover it by yourself. Another thing hurt in my opinion is NG+ (a big part of souls-games) NG+ and FromSoftware style of NPC Quests are not designed for a 150h game, it's way too much. Being totally honest after a reaching like 90~100 hours of gameplay i stop caring about the game and just wanted to rush everything to end it, i was tired/bored of the game. That have never happen to me on any other Miyazaki's game.Another thing that puzzle me is what the heck was George Martin doing in this game? Cause the story is the same thing Miyazaki is being doing for 14 years... The lore is almost the same if we change Great Runes by Lord Souls.Also some open world areas like Montaintops, Nokron or Deeproot runs like sht on PS4, literally a power point presentation, the worst performance i have seen on PS4 so far, it's like Dark Souls Blighttown on PS3 **** good of the game? The main legacy location (Stormveil, Raya Lucaria, The Capital, etc) are excellent, on the top of FromSoftware level. I think a shorter game with just those would have being better.Bosses are ok, but there's a lot of repetition, tho. They got to fill those open world areas with **** of magics if that's your play style.Last boss looks cool, but is a horrible fight, it's a "run and try to catch me" game more than a ****, what i'm saying is: It's a good game, but compared to all previous FromSoftware Souls-game i have played (DS1, BB, Sekiro & DS3) it's my least favorite. This is Dark Souls 3 but stretched and diluted on a open world map.
overrated as f*ck in my opinion!!!!!!!¡!!¡!!!!!!
my problem is shared with many others that most bosses have one showstopper attack that ether is spammed to chip you down or one taps health bars that can make their way mars. but apart from that the visuals difficulty and scale is incredibly
The Good 1. Exploration and discovery that's driven entirely by the player. 2. Stunning world design that blends a new open-world with the classic enclosed Soulsborne-style locations. 3. Challenging combat that is both rewarding and thrilling. 4. A visually stunning world that is diverse and memorable. 5. A compelling, layered, and multi-faceted story that demands to be analyzed and unpacked. The Bad 1. Still, at its core, a difficult game designed for a specific kind of person with little in the way of approachability options. 2. Online multiplayer still requires jumping through hoops.
I enjoyed this game so much. I have put around 300 hours on it now on PC PS4 and **** game is so open and you can try so many different weapons and magic combinations. It is really fun to just play different playthroughs with different weapons and because the bosses are so well designed you can play all kinds of different ways with them.This is my favorite soul game with the Boss design because you can stance break them and make that them fun to fight against.I just love using this spiked fist weapon , so I can use bleed and Frost at the same time on the ****'s also because it is both strong and **** the game's biggest problem is that it's a open world where if you are going for a certain build then most of the content is useless it just kind of sad to look at all There is and just saying to yourself. I don't need any of it.This game could very easy be at 10 out of ten if the DLC gets out and become good. Just like the original Dark Soul dlcMessage Frederiks forsikring bureau
best fromsoftware game. magnificent openworld and the difficulty is right. i played this game 5 times and i love it every time
First of all wanna say thank you fromsoftware for making another great game. My socre is a 10/10 for all aspects of the game story telling world details art style the combat different build styles amd lore
One of the best Open World Games of all time. It's an instant classic and an absolute pleasure to explore. From the technical side it's pretty underwhelming though... Performance is honestly terrible and the music isn't as good as DS3 or Bloodborne.
The new features are all good, the jumping, the horse combat, the design of the incredible world, the many unique locations and the attention to detail. It's not a 10 because of the repetition of some of the bosses. I don't know what more you can ask **** of this type, I found the exploration incredible. 100% recommended.
Overall score : 8.9/10 Elden Ring was an amazing game,yet not a masterpiece as many people claimed,but still **** world was fantastic,easily my favourite open world in any game and the scenery was breath taking There were numerous different and interesting areas to travel to.Exploration felt great and the npc questlines were pretty good as well. Now let's talk about the **** first I considered them fine ,I wasnt the biggest fan of them,but they were cool.That kinda changed as I was getting closer the end of the game ,as many MANY bosses were being reused ,even main ones and in the end only 9 bosses proved to be truly unique. Moving on to another problem ,which is the lategame .I've noticed that the lategame is balanced around meta builds(which can turn the game piss easy) and for me who didnt use one it was kinda harsh ,but I managed.I really think they went kinda overboard with the fights close at the end .Also I was not a fan of the end basically being a boss rush.Nonetheless I really liked some of these fights ,such as maliketh ,radagon ,melania and mohg.This review makes it seem like I dont like the game ,but that's not true,cause it's probably my 10th fav ,I'm just doing a fair critique on it. To sum things up Elden ring is an amazing experience and non souls fans can get into it more easily compared to otheer souls. i definitely recommend it.
This game is addictive and f***ing fantastic. It doesn't need to cater to everyone to be a good game, and it shouldn't. I don't wake up every day expecting the world to cater to me. I'm not that self-entitled. I recognize when a game isn't for me. Is it perfect, nope. It has issues, but on a fun factor, it's flawless.
Too hard. It's just not fun. And although they have introduced things like summons to make gameplay easier, unless you got like a lot of MP to summon a bunch at a time, it doesn't help much for specific enemies, or at least certain kinds of summons. And I don't want this game to just become a quest for finding a bunch of summons and grinding to get more MP, just because the game is just too hard. I don't get how people enjoy such a game, dying so often. Some claim that after winning against a boss after having died to it multiple times feels satisfying. For me, a lot of times when I get to this point, I just feel like I've wasted so much time. To be honest, maybe it's just because I **** at these kind of games. I tried liking it, the lore looks very interesting, the enemy design and building designs look often very cool to me, and the world design in general also looks pretty good to me. But it's just so frustrating dying so very often. If I make progress than it's just very slow until I eventually hit a road block like a boss, which makes it very frustrating for me to continue. I don't like the game at all, but I can see how others like it. As for me, I won't be finishing it anytime soon. This being the case I rate this game poorly, but that's probably also because this is not my type of game. I'm not good enough as a gamer to play a Souls game.
Players who give this game poor ratings are totally unfamiliar with soulslike. This game has a storyline only it is told by characters in the game world and you discover it through exploration. The game is also not perfect because some bosses are simply too easy. But to say that the game is weak because it has too big a world is to be a total ignoramus.
A great tribute to Zelda and the indie industry in general, as well as a story of effort and determination according to its developer and creative mind.
After a full playtrough of 80+ hours and many discussions about the game, i can tell its veeeery bad. Between bugs that took too long to fix, terrible balancing even post balance specific updates, reused PLAYER animations and many reused enemies or enemy animations from all previous games, bad graphics, lag, the worst boss in the whole "soulsborne genre" Rykiard, genuinely terrible AI and failsaves for them (like the dragons disappearing thing), a map that when is open is not that good and needs to put you in closed areas to be intresting, and soooo many more specific issues and letdowns, especially after being promised a completely different game than a Dark soul and the whole marketing campaign, i can say: do not play this game. Play the older Dark souls, all of them, and play Ashen for a good open map souls experience.
I love game music and game lot action and story amazing and I tell u good daY
I have always struggled and gave very quickly on soulslike games but Elden Ring changed everything for **** you are still one of those please try again and stick to it until the end it will be an amazing experience and you will become a fan.
The story and atmospheres are simply enormous, written in a divine way ... the fact that to know the story you need to read a lot between the descriptions of the objects and the dialogues is just a different way of telling ... I accept that you may not like it but everything is very well done... the checkpoints are perfectly distributed... the enemies and NPCs have an extraordinary variety and characterization... the gameplay is fluid, varied and deep... the only problems are some parts of the game that are slightly unbalanced and the camera that is managed quite badly in tight spaces... but those flaws are totally hidden by the quantity and quality of everything else... it probably won't be the best game in history as it brings a limited level of innovation and takes inspiration from other games (especially the previous ones by the same author)... however for me they did everything so well that I can hardly remember a better game than this one played in the last 10 years
Mostly amazing game built on the gamplay foundations of Dark Souls. Incredible graphics, sound design and diversity in weapons and builds. My only gripes are: The camera. Jesus Christ, you will get wrecked because of the camera. Some of the bosses move too fast and erractically for the camera to keep up, and so it will either unlock or jerk away will the boss launches an attack from off screen that takes away 80% of your health. This is INCREDIBLY frustrating and to be honest - terrible design. The platforming sections in that one tower and the sewer. Other than that, the game is mostly great with a unique blend of RPG-elements and action gameplay. A must play for Souls-fans
I really wanted to like this **** looked interesting, visually cool and a lot of people liked it. I am at about the middle of it (judging by the trophy number I had up until now) and it is so boring. At some point I tried to blame myself - I don't pay enough attention to the story, I am not doing the main story enough. But it gets worse and worse - for every interesting moment, there are 10 boring fetch quests of NPCs I don't care about. Or even worse - I need to interact with an NPC and then it appears at another place to be interacted with. The fights are plain boring - trying to understand if my character is stuck in something or the camera is clipping through the boss is the most fun in them. Otherwise it is just dodge/parry and then hit until the boss dies. One of the dungeons seemed cool, until I realized there are 4 more like it. The only thing I give credit to the creators is the size of the map, I think I am missing one of the territories and it is still enormous. Updated: Finished the game, all side quests and obtained all trophies just to check if there was something I was missing. Nope, probably won't remember anything in a week. Also if you are into graphics side of games - on PS4 there were some moments that the game looked like a PS2 one (looking at the ground from a very high place usually).
Let me preface this with the fact that I (typically) do not like Souls-like games. I find the typical formula to be too tediously difficult with no way to break the tedium due to the relatively closed in spaces and linear nature of their previous titles. Elden Ring seems to be the antithesis of this philosophy. Almost from startup you have access to most of an ENORMOUS open world with only subtle hints of where you /should/ go - but even for people who prefer a clear direction because exploration is extremely well rewarded with new gear, more levels, stunning vistas, etc. True to FromSoft form, this game IS hard - but with the freedom to leave and come back stronger it doesn't feel as tedious or insurmountable as other Souls-like. With previous titles you had to Git Gud to progress, but with Elden Ring, Gitting Gud feels like a natural consequence of simply playing the game. Even if a boss feels impossible (looking at you Maliketh), there are SO many tools at your disposal to eventually overcome it. An amazingly helpful community ready and willing to help overcome any hurdle that proves too high (or if you are looking for a specific piece of gear; patchesemporium & beyondthefog on reddit), summons, and -to my surprise and delight- a simple change of tactics/weapons all prove startling effective. Over 700 hours in across 2 platforms (steam & ps4) and I can very easily see pouring in another 700+; and not regret a single moment. I cannot recommend this game enough. Even if you don't like Souls-like, give this one a chance.
Pros - fun open world with a bunch of mini souls levels to discover - the Legacy dungeons feel distinct and properly intimidating - the enemy variety is off the chart - the weapon variety is staggering - the game looks beautiful - three games worth of content for a price of one Cons - repeating minibosses with the DS2 mentality of: But now there are two - Mountaintops of Giants feel weirdly balanced compared to the rest of the game Over ten years of work led to a masterpiece, where Fromsoft used everything they learned to make their biggest and baddest game yet. It would be criminal not to call this game a masterpiece, though a flawed one. Elden Ring encompasses everything from the previous entries, the good and bad. Way more of the good though, like way, way more. Elden Ring expands on weapon skills from DS3 through Ashes of War. Most weapons are capable of slotting myriad of skills to fit any play style imaginable. The points of interest on the map are divided into a couple of tiers of locations, signaling their quality. Legacy dungeons are massive sprawling levels where the most work has been put in. They have shortcuts that you can unlock with some diligent exploring and feature the main fights of the game. Then there are major locations, like Castle Morne, Castle Sol, Caria Manor and a few others. Love and care was put into these locations, but they are nowhere near as expansive and twisted as the Legacy dungeons. And then there are the minor locations. Caves, crypts, mines, you name it, this game has it. These places vary so heavily in quality it is never sure, if you are getting a banger, like a certain crypt with a Groundhog Day style puzzle, or if you are getting a complete dud with one of the games' many copy and pasted bosses. Boss design in this game is about as wild in quality as the minor locations. Your main fights against the Shard Bearers are fun occasions that make your blood pump. Some of the minor bosses, especially Crucible Knights for me, put you through fun and challenging fights that will leave you smiling. And then there are the duds. I swear to god, if I see another Tree Spirit in my life I will hurl. The first dragon fight is fun and exhilarating and fulfills the knight fantasy of charging a dragon on a horse fantastically. The twentieth dragon you fight has you sigh and get it over with. Whoever designed the first Royal Revenant should be fired. And the person that decided to copy and paste him twenty times over should never work in the industry again. Topping off these duds is the DS2 mindset of doubling the amount of bosses in the room and calling it done. The fight against the three Crystalians is the lowest point of this game for me. After getting all that off my chest, Elden Ring shines on a second playthrough and on. Aka, once you know where the things you want are, you can just run for them and ignore everything you do not want to deal with. More than ever, Elden Ring is the Fromsoft game where you dictate the difficulty, where in the older games you were forced to go one of three directions to continue, if you feel like the place that will continue the story is too big a hassle, you can just walk a random direction, gain a couple levels, get new tools to deal with it and then triumph. So, Elden Ring. Fromsofts biggest game yet. A flawed masterpiece that deserves all the praise it got and more. By the way I talk about it you might think I hate this game. But no. Elden Ring is my game of 2022. It has given me so much to love and so much to think about for the last year, that I personally think it will stand the test of time as one of gaming's greatest achievements.
The only negative aspect of this game is repeated bosses, even the main demigods, that was annoying, but overall this game is peak fr no cap
So here it is! 11 years after a real "Masterpiece" Dark souls 1, 13 years after the foundation Demon Souls. If you like it or not, but these games were the foundation of a whole new genre and next generations of video games. So, years of experience in the same base of genre must bring out something really new and improved, right? The Play style - Dark Souls 3 with more anime weapon arts. Some Enemies and Bosses require a specific way to play. Weapons - There are over 300 weapons and 70 spells. How many do you need? How many of them are useful? How many do you test of the usefulness? Animations, enemy and player models - every previous souls game (not bosses). And that's for real. Recycling at its finest. Crafting - forgettable Story - forgettable. Very good idea, to bring to the Shakespearean cryptic story more of the same. The chosen one going to kill or speak or interact with great ones like Miquella, Millicent, melina, miriel and rennala, renna, ranni and gowry, godwyn, godfry and morgott, mogh. Remember Nito? Or Gwyn? Why do they make so much nonsense-people to forget about? Then again, why should I care about the Story or Plot? The intro Scene is getting worse every Souls game, more cryptic and less care to make the plot interesting. The open world - the Art style is more like High Fantasy. I expected to see elves and dwarves dancing around rainbows. And it didn't get better. No more Dark Fantasy than, I guess. The open world itself is useless. I wouldn't call it empty, but it's more empty than previous titles. It's boring to discover the same enemies in another color. It's boring to ride around without a real destination. "But there is a destination, check the map!" Sure, but why do I need to have an open world then. Why not make smaller Areas with more detail. Even the "story areas" in this game have fewer details than the predecessor I stop here. There are games (ubi-titles, cod, battlefield and so on) which got bashed because of the redundancy. Right so, I guess. But why not does anybody even mention it for the Souls games. In this game there are the same negatives since demon souls: Camera ****, Hit boxes ****, all the same fighting styles (hit, block, dodge, cast spell) animations, graphically PS3, bad quest lines (if you miss a quest line or a NPC at the right time, your fault) and still nothing is shown or explained properly. I do not care if you are a hardcore fan, an option to turn tips on or off is not a negative thing and will nothing take away of the way you experience the game. At least they worked on the very best part in every Soul's game: the platforming. Now there is a special jump button which make the char jump. And the horse. Super Mario at its best. So, I had no fun playing this game. It was just too big and redundant and unimportant. I still love playing Bloodborne somehow, even it has the same old flaws every souls game have But If that's the future of gaming and a masterpiece, I am out.
This game is literally up there with Zelda, BOTW and Witcher 3. And the biggest compliment I can give to this game is: I have beaten this game 3 times. PONS: • Great story (but not the best) • Addicting combat • HUGE open-world • Full of content • Amazing Boss-Design • Breathtaking visuals • So much replay value • Vast variety of weapons and builds CONS: • The bosses Post-Game feel a lot harder than usual (for example Malenia) This game absolutely deserved GOTY 2022
My first Souls type game. When I first got it I hated it cause it was stupidly hard. Wanted to instantly return it. Then I found out you can farm runes and make yourself a bit stronger. Seemed only fair since everything one shots you anyway. So I farmed a bit, got strong enough to the point where I wouldn't instantly die and had much more fun that way. I made the game fair for myself and loved every second of it after that. Now that I know how the game is I could probably play it without farming and still have fun since I know what I'd be getting myself into. The game is great, the world is great, it looks beautiful, and the combat is fun. Deciding between magic or physical is great. Play however you wanna play. Another platinum trophy on my account and I enjoyed getting it.
Sadly the PS4 doesn't handle it well, but the game is incredible and has many hours of exploration, it's not perfect, since there are areas that are left over, and the final boss seems very bad to me.
I never played any of Souls and From Software games before. in the beggining I was frustrated and gave up after 5 hours and sold my physical copy, but then after 4 months bought it again and gave it a chance and now 30 hours in I cant stop playing. It was hard to start again, in the beggining i watched 2 videos with 30 mins help walkthrough and it helped alot, now I'm playing myself. if youre confused and want to find out for what all those stuff you find is used for just find explanation on internet, it will be much easier. What you can see in this game believe me you wont find in 3 full games. I can confirm and say ER deserved GOTY 2022
Amazing game is amazing, It's sad to see such upset people, I dont think there gamers. Anyways it's a really awesome experience everything should play it. It won Game of the year after all!
"Will I enjoy this game if I beat the previous Souls games?" Yes, but it will either land at the top of your FromSoft list or near the bottom. -Elden Ring reads your inputs instead of deriving from self-contained enemy behavior. -Elden Ring does not run well on PS4, even if you have a PS4 Pro with an SSD. -Elden Ring has a mixed Souls OST, a good score for most IPs, but subpar Souls soundtrack. -Elden Ring robs player agency, you will react to bosses like in Sekiro, but without a baked in parry system. The enemies do not abide by the rules the player has imposed on them, a stark difference between Bloodborne and Souls games. -Elden Ring has the same flavor text writer that overexplains everything like in DS3. The writers for DeS and DS1 are apparently gone. +Elden Ring has fixed most of the PvP balancing and is almost on par with DS3's* +Elden Ring has dungeons, similar to Chalice Dungeons, but much less variety. +Elden Ring has jumping.
This game is like a turd dipped in fine chocolate. You see it and go "Wow! Does that ever look GOOD!" Once you sink your teeth into it, you realize it's nothing more than a turd dipped in fine chocolate. Block, hit, evade, parry, attack. On and on ad nauseum. Just a rinse and repeat of every other game From Software puts out.
Same as many said, the first hours are 'wow'. Then one starts to see the flaws, and then flaws are all one sees. Imho it's the worst souls, even the worst soulslike ive played. I don't get how peeps can love it, there's just no fun in it. The game world is huge, too huge, there's no way to remember anything or get some sense of orientation. Leveldesign is absolutely mindfckng and soporific. Hurts the eyes, the brain and the fingers for no rewards. Not to mention passing from large empty spaces to places with dozens of enemies **** together, all with moves passing blocks, dodges, and pulliing nfinite combos. Again.. no fun, a huge waste of time. And enemies popping up from nowhere, good bye coherent souls. Oh and it needs psplus to play online. Rip From Software
Looks beautiful and plays well, but ultimately unenjoyable. I gave it somewhere between 100-200 hours but can't say I enjoyed a moment in its company. Bleak, hard, infuriating, unsatisfying are all words that will come to mind when I think of elden ring. Never fun or enjoyment.
Fantastic game, love everything about, the visuals, the soundtrack, the gameplay. More FROM please!
Why is this game so much better then God of War? I notice how every negative review mentions it, and I think it deserved to beat it at the Game Awards. Sorry Kratos fanboys, you loose ;)
Fantastic game. One of the best i've played. Has everything you want, an amazing openworld, monsters to fight!
This game is skyrim for a new generation, it deserves all the praise it has gotten so far.
It's a shame God of War can't even compare to this game. What a shame, but oh well, we won Game of the Year!
This game is AMZING. One of the best games of all time. These people are insane who are lowing the review score. Screw them
Elden ring is a love letter to Fromsoft and souls fans. It's combat is addicting. Vast amount of choice to play how you want with tons of weapons, spells and items. While new players may struggle to get to grips with the difficulty. They do offer so many things to aid you if you are stuck. Even leveling up you start to feel like you can handle something you couldnt even better. Overall I'm… Expand
A breath taking master peice. Only not a 10 as some enimies are repeated and one boss in particular almost made me quit out of frustration.
Combat is still the exact same from Demon Souls back in 2009 with the smallest of additions, the Shakespearian just sounds dumb when you listen to a game like Soul Reaver and hear old style dialogue without trying too hard, it has lore but no story and some sidequests are just terrible
If, like me, you're new to the FromSoft formula, I think you'll either love the trademark bag of tricks of Souls games or find it a little rudderless at times and janky/punishing at other times. I liked it, although I should say: Once I got into it, I enjoyed the first 2/3 of it (through the capital), then found the last 1/3 to be a slog I didn't enjoy as much. Still, I think it's an amazing game to explore for the first time.
Typical souls like with a horse, but not the game of the year. Bloodborn looks much better
It's literally just a walking simulator except you might have an axe sometimes.
After 70 hours of playing, I realized that it was time to stop. It's impossible. The game is simply endless. You repeat the same thing over and over again. A bunch of identical enemies, an empty open world and dull battles in which only you need to beat and roll, beat and roll, beat and roll. DEATH!!! Repeat. And so time after time, time after time, time after time, time after time. DEATH!!! DEATH!!! Grind, grind, grind, grind. God, that's enough. Incomprehensible plot, stupid characters, a minimum of dialogues. It's all just depressing. Although it is worth praising the optimization, the game works just fine on PS4 Slim. But everything else is dull, boring, uninteresting, depressing, empty, meaningless and endless. Disappointment.
Beautiful world, amazing bosses to remember, varied combat styles, a large variety of weapons and spells to choose from and combine. I spent 300+ hours in the game so far, and I still have lots of things to try out and experience. There's plenty of tools to help you progress through the game if you look for them, and plenty of fun challenges if you want to increase difficulty once you've mastered the basics. Character quest lines are complex but rewarding. I am waiting for what the DLCs will bring for the lore and game play-wise.
Looks great. Runs decent. Tons of content. Ps5 version runs much smoother. But fantastic overall
Not as good as Bloodborne but the sheer amount of depth in the combat and exploration makes this game so much fun to play. Light on the plot but heavy on difficulty - this is a true Soulsborne game. I love every minute of it!
Playing from ps4 pro: One of the greatest most beautiful expansive open world rpg's to ever come out, and to witness it after so long of its announcement. Elden ring served its promises and exceeded my expectations, I honestly didn't think this was going to be the ideal open world game but it sets the standard for games well high above. From graphics to game play it all connects and soars the level of video game creation
Most overhyped game ever. It was fun the first hours, but after about 60 hours repetitive gameplay playing it became a pain and I had to stop. For a Soulslike its mediocre and for an RPG ist's even below that. Normally I would have rated it a 5,but because all the biased 90+reviews I have to rate it a 0/10.
Fantastic game. The fake reviews on this are really sad. It's very shameful
Lord of the Rings wishes it was as epic as Elden Ring. Such a fantastic game.
I love this game, it's really fun. Alot of build variety, tons of content, and alot of fan support.
Granphic is terible in 2022 very bad story is understinable no points where to go
It's hard to rate Elden Ring. For a "Souls-Veteran" (like me) it was definitely fun to play. But i can't agree with people calling this game "revolutionary" because it's simply wrong. Indeed compared with Dark Souls or other FromSoftware-titles it has an open world, a horse you can ride on and interesting additions like weapon-arts and ghost ashes. These Ashes are maybe the only new invetion Elden ring came up with. In my opinion the open world is way too big, and looks blunt at so many places. combat on horse isn't fun at all and dungeons like the most bosses are repetetive like hell. Seriously dungeons are the worst. Maybe 5 % of them are different to others and they all contain a boss we have already seen before somewhere. Anyway beside the justified critic (according to me) elden ring is a great game. It shines in common FromSoftware-strengthes: Character and monster design, beautifull environment (legacy dungeons like academia, stormveil castle or house volcano) and a great combat system with awesome bossfights. If you cut away 90 % of all dungeons (because they are all the same) and cut down the open world to a half i would defenitely say this is a masterpiece, otherwise it's a solid fun game with strengths and weaknesses. (8/10)
This beautiful game could have been a 10/10 for me but the awful combat design ruined it all. Sekiro made me think that FromSoftware is now capable of doing great combat design. Elden Ring taught me I shouldn’t have taken that for granted.
Definitely among the best and most polished "soulsborne" maso/core titles from FromSoft. There is just so much content to be had in this sandbox. Some of it is repetitive but no more than say Skyrim or Fallout. The only real problem is there is a serious spike in difficulty when you enter end game areas. That does stand to reason but its not balanced with the game. There are minor flaws like the need to play the game with a guide with how easy it is to break quest lines. Some of the low level dungeon bosses are just plain terrible. Not difficult. Not imaginative. The game has a high difficulty curve to start off with about till the point you get to Stormveil Castle. Then the game gets ridiculously easy through the middle until you start wrapping up content around the Capital city and spikes way further than it should and does not let up for the remainder of the game. Again, being a maso/core title you want an difficult ending but it should be within reason and not force you to have to rebuild your character in order to match a specific build. Thats one of From Softs biggest flaws in design. Forcing you to play a certain way even if its not technically required but the inflated difficulty leaves you little other option. Another complaint is the clearly cut content and some of the dropped ideas. It also would have been nice to focus some development on archery from horseback which is practically impossible. Hopefully if there is an Elden Ring 2 it will add that cause with the addition of the horse that was a major oversight. Also the quests could be a bit more intuitive. We dont want WoW/GTA holding your hand but we also dont want MYST level hands off either. But all in all this is the most polished and closest to perfect offering we have gotten from FS. For all its flaws this is 2022s game of the year. Hands down. A technical feat given how smoothly it plays on first generation PS4s. You wont find a deeper or more immersive game on PS4. If you dont sink at least 100/200 hours of your life into this world you are doing it wrong. I literally capped my play through at 999h 59m 59s and still have dozens of bosses to work through and content left to explore. If you are capable of handing FromSoft type of games then there is no excuse for you to NOT have Elden Ring.
The most accessible from soft game so far. Bloodborne is still perfection, but the hardest one they made. Elden Ring brings up the best features of all games ever made: compelling story, gameplay, combat system, stunning world, amazing replay value and the coop system we all love. The game is huge, lots of terrain to explore, lots of bosses, at first glance, it looks like dragons dogma meeting dark souls, but it's so much more. From software really set the bar high up in this one, it will be difficult to make something better than this masterpiece, only if they ever make a Bloodborne prequel, because it already had a perfect ending.
do i even have to say anything? games like red dead redemption 2 and ghost of tsushima, who are open world masterpieces came out years before this and yet they out do this in every aspect. The graphics are not up to the mark, the story is boring, the open world is lifeless and predictable and you feel lost most of the times, gameplay isnt good enough, any aspect you can name, this game **** i hate to use this kind of language, but it really does ****.
Absolutely Astonishing Game, truly a Masterpiece. Only the Performance isn't as good on the ps4 as it is on the next gen consoles. If you ignore this point, its equally good to the other versions and from a gameplay point of view its almost flawless. I would still highly recommend it for ps4 even though it has some flaws with the performance
By far the worst souls game ever made, the open world is extremely boring and full of copy+paste content. There is no fun way to traverse the open world. Boss fights are low quality and again a lot of them are copy+paste, I am talking about big story bosses that get shamelessly reused! It shows that FromSoftware didn't have enough time to develop this game properly. The boring empty open world is filled with wannabe pokemon summons called spirit ashe summons, you like collecting pokemons in your souls games? I don't. There is no meaningful reward, the game is too big for its own good, next time provide less quantity and more QUALITY, like previous souls games.
Great new and different way of a dark. Souls game. The open and vast map has a lot of different feel to it. Every battle can be so difficult that winning feels like a great achievement.
The game has pretty great challenges, and if you're a veteran Dark Souls player you're gonna enjoy this for sure. Unfortunately if you see the standards precedent games made by Fromsoftware, like Bloodborne or Sekiro, you can clearly see how this Elden Ring seems to be a more safe bet overall, compared with the latest production. I wished for something of more unusual or original, especially gameplay wise. But the game is still cool.
It's a decent game. I don't get the hype that much though. There is basically no story. You just roam around the map without really knowing what's going on.
For those who love to be immersed in a beautiful game design, somber atmosphere with epic boss battles, Please don't miss this masterpiece. I personally love environment story telling type of games. It might arguably be the easiest Souls game (in my humble opinion) but as a result, it's an excellent entry for starters in the From software formula. I can however understand the frustration of casual gamers, this kind of game is not for everyone. it requires the pleasure of persevering, the pleasure of learning and improving yourself through the struggle and the unknown. A "great" game can gather most people's opinion, but a "masterpiece" can sometime divide. I will conclude by saying this. This game has so mush love put into it, it has a soul... and the emotion you feel as you struggle in this world will give you one of the most satisfying feeling you will ever have in a video game after succeeding. That's what I want a game to be, that's what I call Art. Thanks to the team of From Software, they have done something special and unique.
Best game ever! I'm too sleep deprived to write any deep thoughts except the fact that this game got me through some of the roughest months of my entire life.
FromSoftware doesn't miss. Elden Ring is the culmination of everything FromSoftware has done in the last 10 years. From combat, exploration, boss fights, lore, everything. Playing this game felt like a love letter from FromSoftware. The open world is the newest aspect this souls-like offers and it's done masterfully, there is a lot to explore and a lot to intrigue you to explore. However, this is also a fatal flaw of Elden Ring, as on subsequent playthroughs this allure for exploration is extinguished, as the excitement and wonder of discovering new places and dungeons is exclusive to your first playthrough (except of course of the areas you missed, which is probable). I love that there is a myriad of builds you can try with the various weapons and spells. This game doesn't necessarily feel like a pioneer in its genre, but a statement of everything that has come before in its genre, both the good and the bad, but 95% of the time the good.
Now that the casuals have got bored of angrily hammering in 1/10 reviews because they died a few times rather than achieving instant gratification, hopefully the reviews will become a little more representative.
More game freezing issues than any other game on ps4 ive played, pvp is not active several months in. otherwise, more fun to explore and run around than any game ive played
This game has technical, performance, balancing and repetition issues. However, it always got me back in and gave me a good to sometimes great experience. Not perfect but a canvas for many adventures.
Okay, this is a souls game, but i beat it, and dont really think about touching it ever again. An amazing game my brother got me for my birthday, i beat dark souls 1 2 3, and this was fun, until they started rolling out bad terrible patches and updates, nerfs, tweaks, and new glitches that actually broke this game. it lags, the frames drop to 1 or less, its become unstable, and i can no longer play it at all. But this is one of the best games to experience. probably one of the last great games of the decade, as game companies only care about money and phones mobile markets.
I realy love this game. Like this game so much better than the Dark Souls series. Is completely seamless over good this game actually is.
Amazing game, one of my favorites has the best balance of all of FROM's game
Decent game with good ideas executed very poorly and handled abysmally. Among one of the biggest mistakes by them was creating the biggest Souls game with the most build potential and weapon combinations, but limiting how many times you can respec (redistribute stats) your character. There are many more mistakes, but this is by far the one that lowers my score the most. EDIT: Continues to be handled poorly. Proper balancing doesn't exist, big exploits persist without fixes, and they continue sticking with their awful decisions instead of addressing them. Continuous zero communication with their community as well. And awful netcode. All of this has destroyed the longevity of the game, when the Souls series is known for it. Score changed to 0.
This game is for the NES/Famicom generation. Those of us that grew up on Dragon Warrior, Ghosts and Goblins, Megaman, and especially ZELDA 1 AND 2 will wholeheartedly appreciate this experience. This game is essentially Zelda 2 and Castlevania 2 packaged in a neat little bow for 2022. Yes, it is a masterpiece.
Been a while since I visited this site, but I wanted to talk about this game. FromSoft's latest masterpiece doesn't really need very much introduction, especially since it had become THE most popular game in the "SoulsBorne" series of games that they've produced. Everyone knows (and probably expects) that it's a challenging, yet rewarding, experience that will last from when you first pick up the controller to the final time you put it down (which could very will be a long time away). You will explore, fight, die, and triumph over the odds, meeting interesting (and sometimes shady) characters that have their own agendas that may go with or against your own, as you have previously in other games under FromSoft's banner. However, what sets this apart from other games in the series is the big genre addition it was given; Open-World. While previous titles did have exploration as part of the ethos (as finding gear and items will GREATLY increase your chances of survival), the games have always been structured as mostly semi-linear designs (with Demon's Souls being the closest to a linear style game). Many of them have been described to be akin to a Metroidvania (which I've recently began to disagree with, due to the many points of no return without teleporting), but it's very clear that despite the large area a player could see across the horizon, said player would likely only be able to explore a portion of it, with the rest being entirely out of bounds/blocked off/impossible to get to. General locations obviously could be seen and later explored, but restrictions are still placed that aren't immediately noticed (due to how well those games were structured, masking the linearity of the design). Elden Ring, however, removes those borders. If you can see it, be a general location or a specific one, you can go there. The only borders that ever seem to be present are shore-lines at coasts around the country sides. The vast lakes, plains, mountains, valleys, beaches, hills, and plateaus that once served as background dressing that the player would only ever set foot on for a fraction of what was shown is now entirely open, explorable, and populated with a variety of creatures, items, materials, and points of interest, all of which are rarely shown on the map until you've physically come across it or **** it down yourself. Even repeated sites, such as shacks, caves, crypts, ruins, or camps almost always feel different with different enemies, set ups, items, and significance to your journey. You'll never run into a location in this game and deal with it the exact same way, unlike most other open world games. Furthermore, due to how the game-world is structured, it's no longer impossible to be entirely stuck when hitting a "brick wall" (a challenge too high compared to your skills/stats), because now you can just... go literally any other direction, and find something else to do. That said, this also comes at the cost of meandering quite a bit around the vast landscapes of the "Lands Between", sometimes getting lost in over-leveled areas, or even indulging too much on exploration and resource gathering that you end up overpowering yourself and steam-rolling over anything in your path, which all can create a wildly inconsistent difficulty structure. Then again, because of the way it's built, it just means it really is up to you on how far and how often you want to go off the beaten path, how much you want to avoid progressing the story, and how much you want to challenge/unchallenge yourself. Personally, it's one of my absolute favorite things about the game. I haven't felt this joyful, cautious, terrified, curious, anxious, awestruck, or anything else in between in an open world type game in a long time, entirely satisfying my desire to explore every nook and cranny I can find, no matter how mundane. This isn't to say they've done away with the tight, inter-connectivity they had in previous games. Major points of interest (for example; Stormveil Castle), and smaller dungeons such as caves and crypts, are still very tightly and deliberately designed in the same style any SoulsBorne vet would be used to; semi-linear, interwoven and interconnected corridors and rooms, with secrets and alternate paths very carefully placed, with an attention to give hints to the player on how to get somewhere without any hand=holding. Honestly, the only real major criticism I could give the game would have to be the heavy pop-in after you respawn/teleport to a resting place, as well as the frame-rate stutter when there's too much going on at once (seems to be less present in the PS5 version, but I'm not 100% sure on that). However, it doesn't quite detract from the gameplay, and the over all look of the game, even when just journeying from one end of the massive world map to the other, is absolutely incredible. It will be a long time before I let this game lay down to rest. Happy Hunting, potential Elden Lords.
After fully completing the game and putting in 140 hours, I think the critics nailed it, this game really is an open world masterpiece which is guaranteed to influence open world rpgs and maybe even open world shooters moving forward. The artistic, design, sound, exploration, immersion, combat, lore, enemy/area/boss/weapon/spell variety and size of the world are literally off the charts. It's also challenging while not being unfair and it gives you options to trivialise absolutely anything if you have no interest in the challenge. If they had charged $100 (EA or Ubisoft would have) it would be understandable but at 60 it's a steal. This game is almost certainly going to win GOTY 2022.
Playing it on a PS4, and I've had nearly zero performance issues. Sure, the graphics aren't as impressive as new generation hardware, but the game is so incredibly fun that it doesn't matter at all. This is what Elden Ring has going for it: it's just super fun. If you enjoy action RPGs, or dark fantasy settings, PLEASE, give this a try. It's a masterpiece.
Overrated trash supposed roleplaying game with a dead open world, pathetic selection of spells for magic users, awful target lock on, uninteresting side quests, too many spells and equipment locked behind requirements that are out of the way often requiring a guide and bland dungeons that don't differentiate themselves.
Honestly one of the best games i have played in last 10 years And i am not souls fan. I have tried but couldn't get into previous titles. Elden Ring on the other hand **** me in, it was hard but still i couldn't let go the controller. Unlike previous titles where i would just get stuck and give up. I wound constantly new ways to do stuff and get stronger, new things to explore and experience. loved every minute of it Not only that but after i managed to beat my first souls game, i started new game+. I have never in my life felt need or desire to play game through twice. That tells something of how special game Elden Ring is
It takes the best of these amazing DS/Borne games and perfectly meshes it with a huge open world. Can spend hundreds of hours in this game.
This game is a masterpiece. Don't trust review bombers childs, trust those who analyze games as a profession
Love this game, was very excited during my walkthrough. But after finishing it, I forgot about it, like it's left nothing behind... And after that decided to play Sekiro (again, finished it couple of years ago) and now I feel like Elden was not so good enough as it was Sekiro or Bloodborne. Anyway it's one of the FromSoftware best games. But I wish it was smaller but more interesting, and the big minus for me was so much boss repeat ation
Note: I believe all the bad reviews are either they are newcomer to souls series or its another fans or even developers from another game that have or will release their game this year. Elden Ring is not a type of game that you can understand or appreciate if you come from action, hack & slash or simply looking for "relaxing" and "fun" game. Elden Ring has its own definition of fun and you need to keep playing it to understand their game design. GOTY of 2022 for sure, but I'll still pick Sekiro over Elden Ring. Elden Ring is the first game I've ever pre-ordered due to expectation to see more of Sekiro in the game but turns out its more into Dark Souls style. Don't get me wrong, Although i hate Dark Souls but this game is very great! Its the most pleasing exploration game I've ever played. Many things to discovered and room to improve your character as well as variation to improve it. It still bring the gene of FromSoftware as they are the best at creating the best rewarding game. I can feel I've achieved or obtain something in every moment I play this game which not easy to accomplish in gaming nowadays. The world design is fascinating and surprisingly the world of Elden Ring is way too massive but surely not empty like in other open world game. Although, the world is filled with dangerous in every corner so the feel of getting cautious is always there. The reason I'll still pick Sekiro over Elden Ring is due to its combat system and story. Sekiro is fast-paced where Elden Ring is kinda slow and the combat is Sekiro is very fluid with animation of finishing kill to complement that. Beating the boss in Sekiro feels like an achievement while in Elden Ring most of it only the matter of you overpowering the boss (well, not all of them). In Sekiro you are cautiously aggressive while in Elden Ring is more aggressively cautious. Just hope FromSoftware could come with another Sekiro game. Other than that, FromSoftware successfully create a rich and meaningful open world in their 1st attempt with more understandable story this time around. On my 2nd play-through now as I keep killing every NPC that I met on my 1st run --"
Reluctant about the possibility of poor performance on the PS4 base system I just couldn't resist in the end and I'm glad I did pick it up anyway. The game for me is a brilliant piece of work. It plays like a SoulsBorne game and is relentless because you might just venture in areas you shouldn't ben at or there might be strong foes in easier areas where you didn't expect them. In the graphics department the 'legacy dungeons' feel more detailed than the open world but considering the PS4's old age it's no surprise. I'm 25 hours in so I've probably barely touched the surface yet this game is making me want to get back to the game... just a few more minutes just to realize a few hours have passed again; it's just so satisfying. Not all good news though, for me the major drawbacks are the crafting system which feels like a bad designed idea. 'Lets gather ingredients and craft items you just looted in the world during dark souls/bloodborne play throughs)', another issue for me is the side-quest tracking. You need a notebook to keep track of all that's going on.
Honestly the best open world I've ever played. It's not a perfect game, but very few video games offer this kind of experience, so it's a 10 for me.
I wrote a 2200 characters review to be met with a 404 on submission and losing all I wrote. I'll just sum it up. The 20-30 first hours in the game, it is pretty much a 10/10, which I'm guessing most of these review come from. But 70-80 in, anyone can see the flaw compound, and while its world building and graphics stay at a 10, the gameplay becomes obnoxious to say the least. I've watched several streamers play the game and most of them seem to have their fun drop as the game goes and their only drive to finish the game is to satisfy their spectators. They are relieved when they finish the game but it is easy to see their bittersweetness regarding the game, not one of them reacted how anyone would react to a 9.6 rated game. The game set itself high, and deserves most of the attention it gets, but a 10? not really. The first 20 hours I was "Wow, best game ever" too, but as you go on, it is more like "I wish I had more fun playing this".
First game I've ever platinum with over 200 hours of gameplay. This game is a masterpiece, made me want to explore every nook and cranny like no other. I had super high expectations and even then, it managed to surpass them. I've played all of fromsoft games, they managed to create the game of the decade.
Yes, it really is that good. As a fan of the Souls games starting with Demons' Souls it's been incredibly rewarding to watch this formula grow and in Elden Ring reach its peak. That being said, that formula isn't for everyone and those that have disliked previous games may not find any reason to revisit the franchise. The sheer size of the world and its ability to show the player new things even hundreds of hours in is a monumental achievement. In fact the size might be a detriment to the game because in the last stretch the game does begin to crumble a bit. Some of the gameplay limitations also rear their head towards the end, where all roads and playstyles must be funneled into the late-game story content. Still, even with some flaws and scars Elden Ring feels at most times like the epic and monumental game it is trying to be.
i really like this game and want to play but i can't. Because the game for Asia version doesn't support English in-game and i don't know any Chinese or Korean.
Elden Ring is a well-polished open-world adventure. Much of it is customizable to player preferences. From character design to which way to explore first, and more. The weapons and armaments are many. The game encourages various builds in concert with fight styles, from melee, to range, to a mix. The game is known for difficulty, yet—despite the tendency of some to confuse difficulty with excellence—it offers the player a couple different ways to succeed. The first is obviously to develop skill, and for many players, this means much trial and error, learning boss patterns, and eventually finding a rhythm by which to win. A second method includes some of the first but also includes levelling-up before returning to a difficult boss or area. This is a great option that make it open to a larger variety of skill levels without flipping an “easy” switch per se. Much of the visuals, environments, and boss appearances are intricate and cinematic. Exploration is encouraged and rewarding, finding new places, new save points, new caves, new powerups, etc. The game does well to follow the 30-second rule of filling its world with enough intrigue to never really get boring. The exploration and variety of NPCs, quests, powerups, places, etc. is the strength of this game. The experience is largely driven by where the player wants to go, with a main questline available at all times. Despite all the adventurous and customizable positives in this game, it is far from perfect, despite such reviews. What makes many of the boss fights difficult is a “one hit kill” move. A player may often methodically maneuver through a fight for several minutes and then fall to an “instant kill” only to lose all that time and effort for what amounts to a “cheap” move that often can only be anticipated by trial and error. Sometimes, the blow might come so out of nowhere, you won’t even know why you died, such as with the second phase of the Radahn fight if you happened to have the camera in the wrong direction during a mid-fight breather. Most fights have minimal cerebral solutions. Many don’t feel like they beat you in an even fight. They only beat you because of a knockout punch, including ones that put you (or your horse) in stunlock to then finish you with additional follow-ups. At the end of the day, “pattern” based bosses with the “one-hit” are rather cheap designs. It’s almost an illusion of difficulty, where a fight seems somewhat fair and a good rumble until they get in the “cheap shot” and that’s often the only thing that consistenly makes them difficult. Also, too many games, including Elden Ring, create difficulty in part by forbidding “cancellation” of a move. Part of the game’s challenge is anticipating your melee or magic “wind up” time and delivery. This can last up to several seconds. It leaves your character vulnerable if hit meanwhile. And you can’t cancel out of it if you, the player, actually sees the interruption in time and has the reflexes to cancel. The controller will actually be impotent until the animation is complete. This mechanic doesn’t feel natural, as a real person would be able to cancel their own punch. Another feature in some boss fights that is poor is the bosses that have a second phase that is independent from the first phase’s HP meter. Unless you want to scout out a fight by watching spoiler videos, there is no way to know how much pacing of resources you want to use in a given fight because most of the time, the HP meter you see represents the opponent’s total HP, not some surprise new “refilled” HP bar from a second phase. Things like this just make gameplay aggravating and unfun. There are many consumable items, like greases or crab meat, that can be crafted or purchased and used as buffs. These last for a period of time. However, if you are killed, these are lost forever. They are not like runes you can at least have a chance to recover after you are killed. It made 1-time use items overly precious. Your inventory doesn’t return to what it was before a fight or last save. And with so many of the fights being trial and error, it’s very easy to burn through many such items for naught. Few tutorials seem to utilize these, either. The game simply doesn’t encourage them because of it’s loyalty to difficulty and unforgiving gameplay. As a side note, the game creates a fictional world of peculiar, amorality. It helps to be a spiritually knowledgable or careful person when playing the game. Because in Elden Ring, it seems the lines between good and evil are often quite blurred, to the point where NPCs ask strangely worded things like “will you serve the witch?” which in base reality would be clearly unwise to assuage. But the game seems to blur or alter the meaning of things like witches, blasphemy, and other spiritual terms, while yet insisting on borrowing from traditional spiritual language.
Usual From Software game. Nothing really new. Don't believe the hype. As in most From Software games, you fight mostly against bugs, that's the real challenge. By now, From Software is a victim of its own "git gud" meme. As soon as you start the game, you have an enemy which is impossible to kill and you will die 1000 times before doing any progress at all. The only thing that saved Souls game was their closed interconnected environments, which here is gone. You have fast travel and horseback riding. You might as well play Skyrim or Breath Of The Wild, to vastly superior games to this one.
Perfect game. The devs have put a lot of effort into the gameplay rather than spend their time with filling the map with copy+paste quests. As always with From Software they focus on worldbuilding instead of dialogue. Some people may not like that but I think it's awesome. The world is huge and there are bosses everywhere. The combat is perfect as usual. Hitboxes are amazing. I've not run into a single issue playing on the PS4. I did have some fps drops at first but that seem to be patched. People giving this 0 because "theres no story" should go watch a movie. This is a game, it's meant to be played.
Great controls and story great for anyone who loves the dark souls series super challenging and super engaging great weapons and armour super addictive
After 80+ hours, I finally get to talk about Elden Ring, FromSoftware's first Open World game.Unexpectedly enough, despite being FromSoftware's first Open World game, the open world in Elden Ring is quite possibly the best open world I've seen in a videogame... and that's mind-blowing. Seriously though, Elden Ring's open world proves how talented the developers at FromSoftware are; it has an overwhelming amount of optional content and surprises, the map size is absolutely massive, the world design is fascinating and the sense of freedom & exploration is simply unmatched, however, it's not necessarily perfect; the catacombs are repetitive and some bosses are re-used multiple **** top of the open world though, Elden Ring features the Legacy Dungeons; big areas that follow the traditional, complex level design of Dark **** gameplay in Elden Ring is Dark Souls III's gameplay but much better in literally every way + some additional mechanics to make things more accessible, even though the camera is still awkward at **** visuals are beautiful, the environments are breathtaking and the music is incredible.Also, there's an endless amount of different weapons, armor sets, spells and items for unique builds.Lastly, the bosses - particularly the Demigods - are some of the most spectacular and challenging bosses I've ever seen in a videogame.Pros:+ Huge map filled with content+ Engaging & rewarding exploration+ Wonderful level design+ Fun & diverse gameplay with accessible mechanics+ Amazing visuals and music+ Impressive bossesCons:- Re-used content in some instances- Flawed cameraGameplay: 9/10Content: 10/10Music: 10/10Graphics/Audio: 9/10Final Rating: 10/10- Masterpiece -Elden Ring is the culmination and evolution of everything FromSoftware has done in the past 13 years, making it the ultimate Souls game yet.With Elden Ring, the developers at FromSoftware have outdone themselves and managed to deliver their best work to date... and one of the best videogames I've ever **** I recommend it?:Elden Ring is a must-play, especially if you're a fan of Open World games.
QUANTITY OVER QUALITY Meme Ring, id est, Dark Souls 3 with a horse, copy paste enemies, boring cringy choir music, only 8 unique boss fights, and broken overpowered ashes of war for the CASULS. Carefully crafted by From Software to cater to the mindless masses who are blind sheep and bought this LIE because some overrated writers name was attached to it and who cannot see that **** is a one-trick-pony who makes the same game over and over again. At least it has no microtransactions. All in all this game would have been better if some of the content was cut because if you are going to buy this prepare to fight the same copy pasted bosses over and over again. From fanbois are idiots lol.
I'm playing on a Ps4 pro and haven't had any performance issues. For me, this is the best game i've ever played. I feel like I could write a novel about my adventure and it would be unique from other peoples. I love how things are open to interpretation. The characters, world, combat and loot is all top tier. Sorry to all the people who thought they were getting witcher 3 :/
No Problems Smooth 30FPS in Ps4(slim) great game no Downgrade (like xbox one)
Phenomenonal. After 140 hours I beat it and I assume 90% of side content done to boot, it's just brilliant. Not my favourite Soulsbornekiro game but definitely my favourite game in the two years and one of my favourite of all time. Not without flaws but they can easily be ignored.
Probably my favorite souls game. Love the updated graphics, mechanics, and open world. Still wish there was more diversity in the games, besides just killing enemies or wish the enemies didn't respawn. Or a different way of collecting souls/currency. I enjoyed the first 40 hours or so, but the game just felt too repetitive **** loop for such a huge game.
This game is great. With almost no issues at launch or **** micro transactions. EA, Call of DooDy and gran turismo should take notes on how to release games
Elden Ring is a truly great game and a definite contender for Game of the Year, and probably the favorite to win the award at this point in the year. My biggest negative of the game is the change in music the game uses. In other From Soft games there is no music while you're exploring, just your footsteps and the sounds of monsters and combat, and then when the music kicks it, so does the dread and realization that you're about to get your butt kicked. The music in older games sticks out more because of this and becomes more memorable. Other negatives are slight balance issues, performance issues regarding frame rates (dying to due to frame rate drops in a boss fight can be quite frustrating), and hit box/hit registration; while hit boxes are in general better compared to older games, the open world aspect can lead to environments really messing up hit boxes and hit registration. Despite these flaws, I'm giving this game a 10/10 due to everything it does so right and so well. The best boss designs in the game are absolute *chef's kiss* and jaw dropping. The environment diversity is gorgeous and original. There is a massive amount of weapons, spells, incantations, weapon arts, et cetera, and just so many ways to play the game with all the different items and such. There is so much fantastic content in this game; where certain game companies (*cough* Ubisoft *cough*), From Soft has filled this game with boss fight after boss fight after boss fight, and then all the weapons, armor, spells, etc. that I mentioned before. Aesthetic is what From Soft does best, and Elden Ring oozes style and creativity like an open wound oozes blood. The game is just beautiful. While the game is not perfect, it is still an absolute masterpiece, and I cannot wait to put hundreds of more hours in as I create more characters, play new builds, and experience as much as possible. Git gud, and don't you dare go hollow!
This is a vast improvement, in my opinion, over it's predecessor Sekiro. I did not like the levelling system of that game at all, as most of it was removed. Eldenring, on the other hand, is a good game with some technical issues and the levelling system is back. I felt like the map could have been utilized more because I felt tricked into some boss fights only to get frustrated and lose runes. Not a big deal, just an annoyance. Especially the Roundtable place when it said I would not be combatting anyone only to find that in a certain area of the Roundtable (when you drop down), you are. I found that to be very irritating because there was also no way to back out of that area. But, the game as a whole is very well done and I do appreciate the work that went into it. It is very fun to play, despite some flaws.
What is this? Why should I go a long wat again and again in order to encounter the boss? Do you think we have nothing to do besides playing this game?
Extremely vast, with amazing locations and cool personalities. Very fun, and keeps you wanting to play more and more.
Bought it on release. With the day one patch, i only had frame rate issues with some open-field dragon fights. My PS4 is 7 years old and i didn't even hear it "complaining" once. That aside, it's the best open world RPG i've played for a long while(either that or Morrowind). It perfected difficulty, rewards intuition in many ways, amazing soumdtrack, stellar artstyle, expertly-crafted level design, relaxing exploration, thrilling encounters and breath-taking boss-fights. The story might be more intricate, but it's not as demanding. First playthrough, 120 hours, i keep playing to find things that i've missed, check out different ending and trying to platinum it(it doesn't require **** negatives are so mimiscule, they don't hold a candle to what you cam take from the game. Those are some code discrepancies, regarding the physics of the broken items, rarely noticeable, a questline that's locked behind multiplayer and probably some minor weapon balancing issues. TL:DR It's a must and it's for everyone.
Since 2010 I have played all the From titles starting from Demon's Souls on PS3, i did not have very positive expectations about Elden Ring but playing it I had to change my mind, even if the graphics are not the best Elden Ring has such beautiful settings that make up for the lack, every place you visit has item, weapons I have bosses to discover, the music is beautiful, the level design is really good and allows you to explore almost the entire game world as soon as you start the game, the game is not well balanced in fact we will find bosses and enemies that with a few shots will kill you and even stronger weapons than others also Elden Ring has camera problems, a not very good enemy artificial intelligence and a recycling of enemies and bosses that personally bothered me. In the end Elden Ring turned out to be fun and quite challenging at least for me. The review is personal and subjective and is based on my personal experience in about 208 hours at the time of this review. P.S. Excuse me for my bad English.
so BIG, so deep, so interesting, like nextgen zelda. Many secrets, many interesting bosses, many locations. U play the game and game doesn't meant to end.
very good game, unfortunately it has quite a few FPS drops, although fortunately it does not affect the gameplay so much.
Love From software games but this game crashes every day I don't have any problems playing other multiplayer games very disappointed and from soft have always had network issues very disappointed other reviews 10/10 lmao 10/10 is for a perfect game and this ain't that
Easily best game from Fromsoftware! Absolute gold!! If you liked their previous titles, it is a must play!
It‘s the same game like Dark Souls NOTHING is new and the Game is **** Hard I don‘t can defeat the first boss. Hidetaka Miyazaki I hate you, and I hate From Software this lame company.
Game is real! Thanks fromsoftware and all players 80 hours in game is increible
Game starts off really strong. Like, the first 30-40 hours, depending on how much exploring you do, are the most incredible feeling. But by the time you're reaching the end of a normal Souls game, 50-60 hours, the cracks start to appear. I'm at 70 hours, I just got past the royal capital, and I'm beating bosses in 1 try with multiple healing items left over. Bosses I've never seen before are doing LESS DAMAGE THAN NORMAL ENEMIES. This game feels like FromSoft inverted the damage, making bosses a joke and mooks a chore. I'm walking by hordes of foes chasing after me with everything they have because they take too long to kill, are too dangerous to engage, and at level 112 I know I can beat a boss in one try if I have all my flasks. It's not about the game being too easy or too hard, it's just plain unbalanced. Strength builds can barely get a hit out without trading, which can lead to you taking 40% of your life to deal 10% of the boss' life. Dex builds deal 1/20th of the boss' life, and rarely have the opening to swing more than once because the bosses swing 20 times in a row, do an AoE body explosion, and then do another combo that lasts a half an hour. Magic builds are flat out OP, even more than usual because of the open world allowing them to find all their gear right from the start and then start steam rolling bosses with non-boss spells. Elden Ring isn't a bad game, but FromSoft needs to do more than nerf play abilities to balance this game. The bosses need a second look, because I probably shouldn't beat Rahdan, Morgott, Astell, and Renalla in one try, but exploring the royal capital is like pulling my teeth out because of instant death curses in the sewers and knights stunlocking me with lightning damage in the streets. Balance.
This is not soul game! Soul games give me excited feeling but not this empty and boring... open world environment with nothing to do, it's so empty. You can cut those "empty parts" away and Elden Ring is not that big.
This is one of From Software's worst games in terms of balance. I really hope they listen to the comments here and adjust the health of the bosses after Limgrave. It's artificially difficult because their health is astronomically high and you're almost forced to summon. I had a lot of fun playing against the previous bosses from Dark Souls but its become a chore to fight against the bosses in Elden Ring. To make matters worse, they have the same pattern with no variety at all. It is a constant flurry of combos and you have to wait until they're done attacking which gives you a small opening. It becomes a constant battle of attrition which is not fun at all and incredibly disappointing for From Software. The only saving grace is the world building is fantastic. I feel like they spent too much time designing the environment and not playtesting the boss battles.
My first soul’s experience I enjoyed the game not the best game ever and dosent nail it’s open world as it feels empty like a shallow attempt at Zelda breath of the wilds format
It has some issues like annoying frame drops in some late game areas and balancing but the world building, huge weapon and playstyle variety the inmense sense of freedom and challenging but mostly fair difficulty makes this one of my favorite games in a long time.
Best From Software game until now! Nice optimization inthe ps4 system. Great graphics and the keeps in a very good frame rate for this generation.
This is every bit a Dark Souls 4 many have called it, anything else said by content creators are lies since they rely on the game being popular. However, that doesn't have to mean it's a bad thing Pros: - Beautiful - LOTS of cool skills and spells for a huge variety of play styles - lots of unique content - lots of interesting characters and quests - Many ways to finish the game Cons: - ridiculous amount of copy paste - RIDICULOUS amount of copy paste: Same major boss model reused 2-3 times, even major secret bosses are not spared, minor bosses eventually become field units, dungeons(catacombs) that look the same and repeated over 20 times - exploration is often rewarded by large amount of useless spells, weapons or summons - PVP very unbalanced und not playable - End game burn out kicks very early - not recommended if you are Dark Souls fatigue
Just about 100 hours of game and I still can't stay bored playing! Almost no bugs, even on PS4 it stay on 30 FPS (smoothing of 45 FPS) without drops
80 hours and I've finally achieved the platinum. Too many cry babies in the reviews, probably Sony fans. The game is poorly optimized on Pc, but goes fairly good on PS4. So the game is not a 10/10 and has its flaws, but it's a solid 9.5/10 imo. If you're not a soulslike fan, don't bother to buy the game, it's not for everybody. Story is good, (not as an intriguing lore as Bloodborne, but well done) gameplay is nice, map is great. Definetely a worth trying game.
Great game turned out to be even more than what I was expecting. It is a realm of its own.
A great game. I like the open world. Good graphics, beautifull landscapes. It runs good on the PS4.
Technical issues can be fixed, so I'm rating the game based on content only. The world is huge and beautiful but there is a LOT of empty space. The battles bring nothing new to the table, you basically do the same thing you have been doing in every Souls game: roll and dodge the enemy's attack, roll at the wrong time and the enemy hits you, run to be at a safe distance from the enemy to be able to heal and approach the enemy once again and hit it a couple of times. Everything feels heavy and clunky and your hundreds of deaths feel somehow even more frustrating than in any Souls game. Sekiro's combat is way better, more dynamic, more visceral and more engaging. I was really hoping that Elden Ring would improve on Sekiro's combat and take it from there, but we just got the old and recycled Souls' stiff, clunky mechanics that, by now, feel stale. The rewards for killing the most tough bosses were useless most of the time: summons that I wouldn't bother trying, underwhelming talismans, average weapons that I didn't even bothered selling for their low price and other trinkets I couldn't care less about. The lore felt too vague for my taste. I know that's FS's style, but I was really expecting a big, revealing, plot-twisting ending, because my 100-hour journey was arduous and I thought I deserved a decent ending. No, the ending was short, vague and underwhelming, to the point I felt it was disrespectful. All is left for me now is hope that in From's next title, I can be immersed into a huge and beautiful world with a slightly more fathomable lore, an overwhelming, big, fulfilling ending and improved and innovative combat. The old FS's formula still might be appealing to die-hard fans, but I don't think it's going to survive much longer.
This game is average and maybe worst FS game I've ever played. +: 1. Art design is cool 2. Variety of weapons and spells -: 1. Empty open world 2. Midgame and endgame are boring 3. Irritating delayed attacks and aoe-spam on bosses 4. Technical performance 5. Garbage "quests" 6. Forgettable OST 7. Unfair mechanics on bosses (vampiric healling, attacks with life drain, bleeding puddles and etc)
Never been disappointed by fromsoftware studio. The game is mind blowing, been a while i haven't played a game that give me such a thrill
This game is going to be the best game of this year, I strongly recommend playing it on Xbox Series X, the only platform where it does not give problems with lag or fps, from software did it again but this time better than ever, it brought together the best of all the video games they have released to date in one, with a beautiful open world as well.
Elden Ring is gigantic and amazing. The PS4 does struggle with performance & framerate at times, but I've never experienced any game breaking bugs or crashes, and the art style and world design hold up even with a less powerful machine. It's well worth playing, even if you're on an older console.
Elden Ring is about every bit as fantastic as most of FromSoftware's other Soulslike titles. The biggest difference now is that there's a huge open world to freely explore, but it's just one of many changes. There's of course the new horse gameplay and combat which is very fun, new ways to craft recipes and add signature abilities to weapons, a counter attack move which is incredibly useful for shield builds, and a lot of accessability such as control mapping. Similar to the rest of the Souls library, the game does share the same frustrating quirks like still getting hit through solid walls and the occasional bug or framerate drop (at least on last-gen platforms), but that's all outshined by the incredible presentation of the Lands Between, a place filled with so much mystery it's hard resisting the urge to discover and conquor everything there is to see. It may be too early to tell if this could win Game of the Year, but it's definitely a strong contender.
Great game. It’s like dark souls 3 only much bigger. Maybe a little too big . Ng++++ 150 hours in a I am still finding new areas and learning little details about the game. I rarely buy games on release for obvious reasons. From software did a great job with this one
Elden Ring features some of the best open world design out there. Some framerate issues aside, I haven't encountered anything game breaking on PS4, and it's been a pretty smooth ride for me all the way through!
Excellent game if you are able to commit yourself to it. This keeps getting better the more you play and explore. Its incredible how this runs perfectly well on a base PS4 with only a few draw distance and FPS issues here and there. I am 30h in and have not even completed a quarter of the main quest. Seriously hard to put down and worth getting. Be aware its difficulty will punish you.
Hate seeing this anywhere below atleast a 9. But it's an easy 10/10 for me. I created an account just to help this game's ratings. I'm 80 hours in and I can safely say it's the best game I've ever played. As a 30 year old man, it makes me feel like a kid again, even just thinking about playing it after work! If we are comparing games, this is objectively a 10/10. So majestical and mysterious. Dark cosmic horror mixed with open world medieval buildings. Different enemies, different locations, it just never gets old. I honestly don't know how I'm ever gonna play another "Ubisoft like" title again. The industry better step it's game up! Fingers crossed.
A master piece, its the very best from every FromSoftware game, a must play if you enjoy an open world and hard difficult games.
Played Elden Ring for about 40 hours, I am at Level 74 and I will stop it now. The Magic everybody sees in the Open World, in its lore... the so called passion in every corner, i really really wish I could see that too, but I personally don't see anything of it. Which Lore? To me elden ring a generic, hard difficulty game that pretents to be more that it actually is. I don't get the Hype at all. Its buggy too, I had to restart several times to progress, at some parts there are obvious problems with performance, not talking about crashes. To me it is a senseless loop of grind. And to this grind there is not even a payoff. Loot is just a joke in comparison to how much time you spend into the game without any real progress. With Level 74 I feel as weak as with Level 12 - yeah, maybe I should have gone for a Mage instead of a MeleeFighter. Maybe I should waste my time for something else. So naaww... Not worth my time. Fanservice for Fanboys. That's absolutely fine to me, still I am not one of those.
I played every From title since Demon's Souls on PS3, when it was still an obscure game found in the back of some retailer's shelves. I loved all of them, they always were beautiful, inspired, and challenging. But fair. Elden Ring is by far the most beautiful; visually stunning and with one of the best maps ever created, you just can't stop exploring. But. There's a huge But. It crossed the line which separates a challenging, yet fun, game, from a painful and frustrating experience. After 105 hours I'm sick of being stunlocked by everything, from floor damage to arrows, even when wearing a Scale Armor. I'm sick that every type of enemy, even dragons, keep jumping around like ninjas. I'm sick of the near-infinite enemy combos that end up with a dodge or backstep /repeat. I'm sick of the constant need of using an overall artificial difficulty which is nowhere near to the concept of Fun. Yes, Elden Ring is where From games stopped being fun.
ELDEN RING, developed by FromSoftware, Inc. and BANDAI NAMCO Entertainment Inc., is a fantasy action-RPG adventure set within a world created by Hidetaka Miyazaki creator of the influential DARK SOULS
Elden ring is improving on dark souls formula in every aspect. One of a kind expirence and memorable bosses is worth every cent of the price.
In this game all i need and all i want. I love souls atmosphere. Best of souls
Strictily a report on PS4 performance. Only reason I bought is because you get both game versions, and I m planning on buying a PS5 sometime anyway. Game is barely playable, 20-25 Fps most of the time. You can durdle and have some fun with it, but is annoying.
What an amazing game. Holy crap. One of the best i've played super fun too.
Absolutely amazing! Haven't had this much fun in a long time playing a game.
In the beginning It was around 25 fps, but in the middle to the end It keeps around 15 fps, hard to enjoy
The best work in the history of the game. The volume is amazing. A very beautiful game.
First souls game I’ve played and I’ve been playing the game non-stop. So much things to explore, quests you have to watch out for nice rewards and, character builds to play with! Loving the game! Well done fromsoft!
Most accessible From Software game. Open world is fun to explore and thrilling when you run across an open world boss. Only complaint is that multiplayer should be more like typical multiplayer instead of From Softwares usual formula.
Would love to give 10 however the PS4 version suffers from frame rate dips fairly frequently. Amazing game from fromsoft. If I get my hands on the ps5 version I might come back and give it a 10 there. Elden ring has nearly perfected the “souls” formula. Awesome world, great dungeons, epic boss fights, it’s all here.
This is easily the worst game FromSoftware has ever made. If you like to ride around on a horse in a big, empty open world for 50 hours, and you like to run the exact same three copy/paste dungeons with the exact same five copy/paste bosses for 70 hours, then this is the game for you. If you like an egregiously unbalanced and unfair endgame then you'll love Elden Ring. If you like encountering bosses that the developers didn't bother balancing for your play style on a regular basis throughout the game, then why are you reading this review and not playing Elden Ring? The massive, empty open world completely destroys any prospect of replay ability for people that have lives and responsibilities. This review is coming from somebody that has been a massive fan of FromSoftware since 2011, and has gotten the platinum trophy on all of their games including Elden Ring. This game may just beat out Dark Souls 2 for the worst FromSoftware game of all time.
A complete masterpiece visuals art direction gameplay music everything about this game is completely mesmerizing
This is easily the game of the year. Personally I prefer Dark Souls 1, I prefer slower combat. But there is nothing to hate here, this game is only positives. I can not stress this enough, Game of The Year easily.
Game of the year by far. It’s Skyrim but somewhat difficult. I would not compare it to Zelda Breathe of the wild because Zelda games are trash.
The first 25 hours of this game are the absolute peak of video-game. A cool gameplay, a new and diverse world to explore, new enemies, cool spells and weapons, cool side-bosses and stuff, nice cinematics and all. Then, you continue playing and starts to realize that the game is so unbalanced that hurts. Enemies with too many health, exhausting and loooong combos that kill you with 2-3 moves and a very aggressive behavior, that dont give you a chance to initiate a combo. Really, many enemies in this game have 10000 of poise, and they simply dont feel your hits, then proceed to obliterate you with 2-3 hits, even if you have 43-50 in vitality, alongside the fact that seems that every enemy in this game has some magic ou spell in their moveset, making them almost perfect in combat. All enemies and bosses uses the same strategy, they trick you by fake or prolonging moves that would look very fast and some of them are really fast that you have like 0.3 second to evade or take a literal combo of 30 moves that f*cking kill you. The world exploration is literally not worthy, you might find some SUPER OP secondary bosses that would give you not enough runes and a useless item. Plus, they are almost the same and the dungeons are almost the same as well, super boring. FromSoftware tried to create a "easy mode" by letting you catch "Pokemon Souls" and throw them to help you at combat and improve the usage of magic in the early-game, then they ruined the STR and DEX players that wont really care or would use this type of mechanic. This game really needs a balancing or the majority of the players are not gonna enjoy it. I'v played DS1, DS2 and Bloodborne, they are hard, not unfair as this game is. Miyazaki proved that he CANNOT create a open-world game and Dark Souls shouldnt be a open-world game. In all games the world is dead and empty of good people but full of boring enemies. Try again later, because this game was a failure.
I don't want to be banned from playing even such lame games that are full of bugs and do not shine with graphics that reveal all the possibilities of the new generation. generations of hypocrisy and political games.
After 50 hours of playtime and beating every main boss, I can say the game is amazing. It still has it's issues, but the overall experience is one of the best I've ever had while playing a game. I played on a launch day PS4 and doing so led to a few points where the frames dropped to almost a standstill. This only happened a few times, but it's one of the reasons holding the game back from a 9 or 10. I guarantee that if I were to play this on a PS5 or RTX 3000+, the game would be near perfect. The map is massive and has something to do no matter where you go. The only thing is, rather than telling you where to go or giving you a waypoint to follow, you have to find everything yourself. The game doesn't hold your hand in any aspect of the game including the map. You have to pay attention to near every piece of dialogue in order to pick up clues that will hint to where you need to go next. The combat is the culmination that everything FromSoft has work on in the last decade and you can clearly tell. Shades of DS3, Bloodborne, and Sekiro are all over this game. The bosses are very difficult, but not unfair or impossible. Margit is the toughest first story boss in the series, but there are multiple ways of going about the fight. One, you can keep trying over and over. Two, you can get stronger and come back later. Or three, find an item that might help with the boss. Margit's Shackle is an item the specifically helps with this boss. Every boss provides a unique challenge and forces you to come up with unconventional solutions. One of the biggest questions the game asks you is "Oh so you beat that boss? What if there were two of them?" Gank bosses are very common here and some aren't very well designed. Like most Fromsoft stories, it's very vague and up to the player whether or not they really want to pay attention to it. This comes in the form of exploration. The more exploring you do, npc's you meet, and areas you unlock, the more the story starts to come together and give you the completed story. The story is as deep and fleshed out as the player is willing to make it. Overall the game is around a High 8 to low 9 for me. First game in a long time that makes me want to get 100% in. If you are on the edge of buying it or not, try it out and see what happens, you might just find one of your favorite games of all time. ***SPOILERS*** There are still bosses that are poorly designed. Crucible knight and misbegotten warrior is painful to play against because the developers just threw two bosses in one fight without thinking about balance or the arena they fight you in. Godskin Duo is annoying because they tried to break agro by giving you pillars to hide behind, but it doesn't matter if both mobs are the same speed and both have ranged attacks. They tried to channel the spirit of O&S, but fell short. Rykard is a reskinned version of Yhorm in the way that you need a special weapon that's specifically designed for the fight in order to have a chance at winning. The elden beast is probably my least favorite boss in the game. The fact that it has so many two-shot long ranged attacks is already hard, but it constantly runs to the other side of the stage a few seconds after you close the gap makes it 100x more annoying to fight.
I was worried about getting this game on the PS4 because of all the issues I have heard about on PC. My worries were unfounded. So far I am 50 hours in and the game plays smoothly 99 percent of the time! The gameplay is the best of any from software game in my opinion! Only thing stopping this game from getting a perfect score is the few (minor) bugs I have encountered like bloodstains not working. Once those get patched I would give this beautiful masterpiece a 10!
Great game, Sure it's a bit buggy right now on pc and ps5, but I am confident that will be patched. It is definitely a hard game, not for those who want a relaxed rpg. If I had to find a gripe with Elden Ring, it would be that some of the bosses are repeated for overworld and dungeon bosses. Other then that, 10/10.
This has been my first DS game and it has been great! Yes it can be challenging for sure, but that is what gives those feelings of success after finally beating that boss. If you hit a wall, then go somewhere else and you won't be disappointed! I went into the game and took my time, enjoyed the map and the countless hidden places and things in every corner of which there is many! I am still not 100% complete and have lots to do. Replayability is great offering so many different ways to go through the game to keep it new. The only thing I found overtly difficult was the steep learning curve at the beginning, but don't let that dampen the brilliance of the rest of the game. You will catch on and any subsequent playthroughs will be even easier! This has made me realize how many games just let you be OP and walk through things. Solid 9/10+ Has made me a new souls type fan!
Elden Ring is a fun and interesting rpg with tight game mechanics. It runs flawlessly on ps4 in an age where the AAA companies can only put out one disaster after another. Fromsoftware has done gamers a great service. Best game ever imo!!!
This has to be hands down the best souls game to date. Keeps everything that you love: difficult but fair combat, deep lore(that isn’t spoon fed to you), amazing boss/enemy design and adds a few awesome features: horse back riding, open world map, and more. The level design is beautiful and the graphics are not nearly as bad as the review bombers are saying. I’ve only notice a few performance issues(graphics will jump in, 1 or 2 second frame rate drop, and a weird green line that will appear for half a second). Again nothing like the review bombers are suggesting. I honestly think if you have never played a souls game but have wanted to, PLAY THIS GAME. You won’t regret it!
I couldn't endure for longer than 2h, as someone who played every soulsborne game multiple times.
This game has been a breathe of fresh air. It’s very challenging and rewarding. The game rewards you for being curious and exploring the world. You will be punished if your not cautious in your adventuring. I also really like the minimalistic UI. It’s the best ‘worst time’ I ever had 10/10
Haven't completed the game yet but have played several hours of it and keep finding new things to discover. It's the kind of game you can play for hours until you get tired and then you pick it up again an hour later cause you can't stop thinking about it. If you enjoy soulsborne games then you'll likely enjoy this.
one of the best game I've ever played even more than bloodborne, worth the hype, great art design, awesome music, great bosses , 10/10
GOTY 2022 worthy. My first souls game but definetely not the last. This game reminds me of old games that use to be challenging. The design is epic and the amount of things to do is endless. I am addicted.
Playing on my ps4 slim and it runs well(28-30 fps mostly. Good for 8 year old ps4). Runs better than bloodborne. Thanks to fromsoftware for this beautiful game. What an art design.
i was sceptical but they did it. will list rational pro-contra eventually (still playing atm, might be the first 100% after dark souls 1 I attempted in the whole souls franchise)
Simply put, it is both one of the best games of this decade as well as the best From Software title ever made. Haters beware, GET GOOD!
THIS GAME IS AMAZING. This is definitely game of the year. Fromsoftware has released a masterpiece once again. I am 62 hours in and still haven't finished, but this is definitely one of my favorite games of all time. The bosses all are unique and amazing and have different movesets that are fascinating to figure out. The diversity you get with choosing and creating and build is amazing, added with the phenomenal weapons and skills in the game already. This is surely one of Fromsoftware's best work on a game and I believe everyone should experience it. The game is also spectacular looking. I am playing on a PS4 slim and even still this game is beautiful, from the golden of the trees and lands, to the space aesthetics, this is such a beautiful masterpiece.
Some occasional frame drops? ZERO OUT OF TEN! Are you people serious? The rest of the game is an absolute triumph of art and design, as well as a culmination of most of the best mechanics from From Soft's game library, but you'll trash it for stuttering every once in a while? What a bunch of babies. The problem with Cyberpunk 2077 at launch wasn't just that it had a bad framerate. The problem was that it would crash all the time, the AI was atrocious, entire features felt missing, and characters would just spawn in random locations sometimes. Elden Ring hasn't crashed for me once, the enemy AI are quite sophisticated, the game is packed to the brim with great content, and mechanically, everything seems really solid. And the performance hitches will probably be improved with patches over time. Do these people not remember Blighttown? Would they also give the original Dark Souls a 0/10 because of its occasional hitches? Or Bloodborne, which is locked at 30 FPS for the entire game? Is that a 0/10? Or Skyrim, which still has tons of bugs TO THIS DAY? Definitely a 0/10. None of these reviews are serious. The game is not perfect, and I can absolutely understand docking a few points for performance hitches or language limitations if those things matter to you. Maybe a 7/10 or a 6/10, or heck, even a 3/10 if those things really, really matter to you. But a 0/10 for a game that is so clearly not garbage is not a useful review to anyone. It's just useless spite from people who want to feel smart for not liking a popular thing.
I've played all the FromSoftware titles and in all honesty, this title ranks bottom with Dark souls 2. It could have been a potentially awesome game but it was marred by lack of optimization. I can totally understand if this title was for current gen consoles only (xbox series x/ ps5) nd PC but to release this game on last gen consoles in this state leaves a bad taste in my mouth. This title was not optimized properly for release, that even the day1 barely does anything to address it. Yes! This is nothing new to anyone familiar with buying from FromSoftware on day 1, but when are they going to start becoming better, it very disappointing. Dare I say, Dark souls 1,2,3 run better than this game. Yes! This has more content but that is just an excuse. I have a brand new PS4 console launching it with Elden ring, and the performance is appalling. Frame rate issues every now and then, not to exclude enemies clipping out. Literally any location with a vast number of multiple enemies would drop the frame rate. Heck, I can't even challenge the dragons properly. That being said, there would those who see nothing wrong with anything From Software does be it half arsed or otherwise.
After almost 90 hours I haven't finished the game yet, and yet it still manages to surprise me. Anyone who says this game is empty or hollow - do you even look around? Do you listen to your surroundings? Do you even play the same game? There's so much things to do, I wasn't even at the first main boss after 20 hours of the game, thats how much stuff there's to do. The only thing that kills this game being 10/10 for me is a repetitive side bosses. Yes, it's graphics aren't on Tsushima levels, but the artistic side it slaps any game to date. The performance can take a dip - but it never happened in a fight or a major story event. This game deserves all the love it gets, it's just not for everyone, and it's not like any other gane.
This is just another annoying Dark Souls ... George R. R. Martin touch is nowhere to be found. Graphics are not what I would expect nowadays. The whole open world thing is just lame, maybe suitable for 2010. I won't even get into the whole UI thing cause I get the point (they wanted to move away from those typical UI Ubisoft designs) so at least that gets this game the 1 I'm scoring it with.
GamePlay 10/10 Lore 10/10 Music 10/10 World 10/10 Bosses 10/10 Thank You Miyazaki
No graphics issue on ps5. Stop review bombing this game based on pc performance! Throughly enjoyed my 10+ hours PER DAY in the last three days. Honestly think this is game of the decade. Open world is full of interesting stuff. You JUST NEED TO LOOK FOR THEM!
This is the ultimate version of Dark Souls thanks to its vast and gigantic open world.
FROMSOFT delivers yet again. Please buy this; support this company, there one of the very few good ones left.
I’m using Thailand account and got this game in Chinese, no English. This is the first time I have a terrible experience. Why no English?
Greatest game I have ever played. It has all the classic soulsbourne elements and then some, and the most detail ed open world of any game.
A masterpiece in gaming that will never be forgotten. This is generation defining.
First I would like to start by saying that giving this game a ten is not serious and giving it a 0 just because you are pissed at it is childish. I have always been a very big fan of the Soulborne serie, I finished every one of them multiple times these are awesome games. Elden Ring is a good game but its not great, for me its kind of a deception. Dont get me wrong the gameplay mechanic is good, the graphic are fine, some environments are beautifull to watch and I like the idea of an open world soul games, I always wanted that. One major problem is, its not rewarding, the ennemies are not giving anything worth the time it take to kill them including the boss, its grindy to a point that it is boring just to level up once. That make the random coop to help peoples killing their boss almost useless. Many hard and massives ennemies are giving around 50 runes (souls) even if they take 5 minutes to kill, when you need aroung 10 000 runes to lvl up its dumb. Thats why so many peoples are relaying on a stupid runes run like the boulder that drop around 2000 runes when you let it fall of the cliff, what a joke... Is it me or almost every big monsters, mini boss and main boss have now a sniper attack and an aoe that smash the ground creating a blast of wind destroying everything around them for a 15 feets radius, so many boss are difficult just because of that, its cheap and lame. There is a lot of giants in the first part of the map and they all do the "Dovahkiin" scream attack that can hurt you and make you fall from your horse even if you are 500 feets away from them. Many monsters seem to have unlimited stamina and will lend an never ending serie of hits on your face and many of them seem to move like a ninja even if they are obese. That bring me to the horse, since nothing is worth killing I found myself just running aroung with the horse avoiding the monsters who are not worth my time just to collect items and find dungeons, this make the concept of open world pretty boring to me. Next the coop, that is my biggest deception in the game, its like the old system, you summon somebody in a restricted zone, kill the boss then they are kicked out of your game. Me and my friends were mad when we found out that there was a massive fog gate stopping us from getting acces to an entire island just because I killed the boss at the end of the castle, this is pathetic, no evolution whatsoever even for a so call open world. When you take a look at some great coop game like (Remnant from the Ashes) where you can coop with the same two peoples from start to finish without interruption, getting refreshing health, potions and ammunitions at the checkpoint togetter there is no excuse to give us the same old crappy coop system like in Demon Soul on the ps3. This is lazy and weak. And the checkpoints make no sense at all, sometime you will find two checkpoints close to each other with nothing dangerous between them and sometime you will face hordes of dangerous and aggressives beast hoping to find the next checkpoint 10 miles further. In conclusion Elden Ring is not bad but its not great, it could have been one of the best game ever but there is too many flaws and stupids concept to make it what it should be. For me its a 7 that could have been a solid 9, sadly its not.
A brutally difficult game that continues to wow even after 30 hours plus so far. Rarely can a game capture that feeling of elation at beating a difficult boss, Elden Ring has you feeling like this many times. 10/10
I've been playing video games since 1986, 42 years old and i think i know how to regognize a bad, a regular, a good or a masterpiece game and to be short, elden ring is that kind **** , a masterpiece, it's simply incredible.
Best game ever. Just finished it. Don’t listen to the metacritic trolls who always review bomb games because they are bored, this game is a masterpiece like no other. It will change game like Zelda Botw.
I already wrote my review under the ps5 page. Just want to boost the score after a bunch of fools tried to review bomb the game for reasons only they know. Like always with great games or great and challenging games, people show their incompetence on metacritic or other user scores, ruining sites like this completely. As if someone doesn’t buys or buys a game based on your trash reviews lol. People already know that user score is invalid. So save your time and rather learn the game. Noob.
If you activate multiplayer features in this game you also get the invasion system which is nothing but a feast for grievers and can‘t be deactivated. Which makes it impossible to play a relaxed coop session. If you don‘t care it might be a great game.
I will buy this game someday, but my opinion is here: I never played a fronsoftware games before, but this game looks interesting for me. Haha
What a joke this game is. Released in the Asia region WITH NO ENGLISH. Seriously, it's all of Asia China to you? I can't even fathom how ridiculous this is. Between Sony support which is the worst in the universe, and these morons releasing a game a Chinese, I somehow end up the stupid one that gave these trash pandas my money.
I have played this on ps4 ps5 and pc so have a good idea of the lay of the land. And if a Fromsoft game ever needed 'Patches' (sorry) it's this one haha This game should be rated higher but due to the serious technical issues on all systems it has to be a red **** now. Let me explain. Im a huge fromsoft fan and trust only them for day 1 preorders. I've platinumed all their games. Buy It really worries me that blupoint demon souls remaster can launch at 4k 60fps or near to it but elden ring can barely hit 30fps and often dips as low as 15 in sadly the areas where you need consistent performance. Ironically on ps4pro on a ps5 it runs at a solid 60fps but at luke 1800 using checkerboard and looks good. On ps4pro it's not so good sadly. I bought a ps5 for improved graphics but all I get is decade old issues which on pc ive left behind with a 3080 though I've Elden ring runs worse on a 3080 than on a ps5 lol So you can imagine the ps4 version is alot worse without that sad drive. There is a whiff of cyberpunk about the game where fans are blindly supporting and conveniently ignoring the serious technical issues which also include a few progression stopping glitches / bugs and the occasional game breaking issue. And post launch the patches are not addressing these issues. It still looks and runs like a...ps3 gen era game but tlou was ps3 and that ran and looked far better so...elden ring just looks ugly. Great art design but everything else is far from the beauty of sekiro or the grandeur of bloodborne. The open world simply fails in 2022. If it was 2010 then I'm sure it be far more impressive as it has 2010 graphics. It's not remotely as good as botw or rdr2 which are games that existed before ER development even started. The latter alone is worrying but the large empty space which witcher 3 dlc would laugh at...isnt much fun to play. Yes You can explore but you'll only find Skyrim like identical copy and paste areas. Forget the wildlife of most open world games or npcs with compelling stories. The George Martin element is inexplicably non existent making the game effectively a dark souls 4. The latter isn't a bad thing but it's not as good as ds3 in visuals / performance or gameplay so where does this leave us? The game isn't suitable for noobs or non fromsoft fans. It's a game seemingly more for fan boys, prepaid journalists and shills to scream "goty!" while they wait for gameplay saving 'Patches' (sorry ;). It's not a bad game by any means but it has bad aspects to it or lazy maybe. Bloodborne launched in a rough state so this is nothing new but it's still not acceptable. Wait for a sale a year from now when it's been fully patched. Eventually maybe 7-8 /10 but a 4/10 !t launch due to poor technical state :(
Amazing game, I'd been a huge fan of Miyazaki's work, but this... Is one of the best game that I have ever played
A wonderful port. This is easily From Software's best running game on the PS4, after completing the game, I had 0 bugs and it had a really smooth framerate. Gameplay wise, it's a masterpiece. Hidetaka Miyazaki has delivered again. Elden Ring is not only the best game of the year, it's quite possibly the best game of all time.
Failed to live up to expectations, Not a good game, don’t play it at all. LLL
"Simply" amazing. Yes, you got that rigth. This game is a masterpice full of the best content created form "Souls like games" adding just two new battle mecanics (if it works, why fix it?). Great job! 10/10 and a must play!
Performance could be better, but all in all great game. I don't know if I like Souls Games in an Open World Setting more than the usual Souls Worlds, but I think it's enjoyable.
The game just gets better and better, a bit overwhelming in the beginning. But if you have experience with Soulslike games you will be hooked from the start. Played on PS4 Pro.
Have only had 2 slight frame stops in over 60 hours of gameplay. Has amazing bosses, beautiful music scores, and an insane world. What more could you ask for?
As usual, PlayStation delivers. FromSoftware has done it again. Another masterpiece from the one and only RPG gods.
Taking this game right back to Gamestop to get whatever crumbs they are willing to give me. Game tries too hard to make things difficult without any payoff. Even when you beat a boss or a large group of enemies you don't get anything that makes you feel like it was worth the hours you put in to defeat them. Games like WOW took hours, sometimes days to down a boss in a raid but there was always some juicy gear that dropped and had to be rolled on. You don't get that with this game at all. I cleared an entire camp that took me around 3 hours of stealth killing, running away, trying different tactics only to get something that my class of character can't even use. I killed a mob of 5 wolves and got a few bones from two of the wolves that I used to make one arrow out of. What's the point of putting a bow an arrow in the game if you never have arrows or have to grind 10 hours to get a quiver. Just senseless difficulty. Just a genuine torture to play. Game has no true content it just bogs the player down with senseless grinding. The story is so silly and half baked, it feels like a teenager wrote the script. The graphics are laughable in 2022. And it's not a true open world game.
Fantastic game! From Soft used everything they learned from previous titles to craft this game. The combat is tight with way more variety than I've have seen from previous games, the open world is huge and populated with tons of things to do, horseback gameplay is awesome inside and out of combat. Already one of my favorite games of the past year and maybe one of my favorites of all timed!
Gigantic world, every best feature of the past Fromsoftware games has been put masterfully into this masterpiece.
I would like to say that buying this game on ps4 is worth and runs well but it doesn't , not only it remembers bloodborne and darksouls 1 in terms of fps but it manages to do worse , in some areas it becomes almost unplayable but what is even worse is that i was enjoying the game until after a storm my ps4 shut down with the game open , i re started it and the game cancelled 2 hours of progress even though i saved A LOT of times in the correct way before the incident happened . The game is probably 1 of the best if not the best made by From Software but the performance on ps4 is awful and it manages to do worse even than bloodborne deleting 2 hours of progress.
It's sad to see how people and their cancel culture mentality have become dumber and dumber. People giving this game a 0/10 are just plain stupid. You have the right to not like the game but this game does not merit a 0 score. Having played 30 hours up to now I can sincerely say that this is one of the best games I've ever played and I've been gaming for 30 years. I'm playing it on the PS4 and the graphics are still amazing, there are no framerate issues and I have not encountered a single bug. The story is extremely interesting, the characters and their quests are a lot of fun, the combat is exciting, there's a ton of different content, environments are not recycled so you will always find yourself in a completely new setting which makes discovery lots of fun, there's a lot of hidden content so you're always excited to find new bosses, items and gear. This game is just perfect upto now and I would recommend it to anyone.
Elden Ring is spectacular. The sense of discovery is off the charts, helped along by out of this world art direction of this dark fantasy setting. Slight technical hickups don't distract from that, it's completely playable and often times very beautiful even on base PS4. They have taken the best elements from Demon's and Dark Souls game and combined them with an open world design very much in the spirit of that gameplay. Does not hold your hand, gives immense freedom in character builds, you can try to cheese enemies, you can grind, you can go anywhere, making this one of the most overwhelming, but also most accessible souls experiences. The reward for uncoupling your brain from "but muh grephics! Where is the waypoints???!" kinda thinking can not be overstated. Instead of going through motions, you're forced to pay attention. Paying attention is a core quality of love. If you pay attention to this game instead of asking it to serve you its qualities on a silver platter you'll love it.
Don't waste your time or $. Elder scrolls online is everything this game tries to be and more.
No English version available in the Hong Kong Psn store, there are English speaking people who live here!
game is far more of a headache than it is fun. I guess some people find grinding fun. I tried this game because I heard it had easier entry. have fun being frustrated.
Elden Ring is a complete Dark Souls formula, this world is a great expansion, released version and additions. More boss, more enemies, more rage. It makes me wonder what's going on behind a mountain or on that beach when I'm navigating the open world. It adds a fun look to the game called Ashes Of War. I'm playing the game with Vagabond. Vagabond is a melee character with a sword in one hand and a shield in the other, but his sword has magic skill. You should make a more average character than this character. There are spirits. You can call them with you because of your mana. There are wolves, sorcerers, soldiers, etc. They are successful in gaining acceptance based on caution, not more product-oriented than Spirits. There is an extreme boss structure in the game, but after a while the side bosses are repeated. The main bosses are very difficult. My Friend is one of the hardest Souls-Like games. Very small-scale battles take too long to hit this incremental boss, whose combos are weak. This causes you to get very angry with your personality and alienate you from the game a little bit. There are a lot of technical problems in the game. Instant FPS, little bugs, long loading screens. But in game play, it's one of the best games of the year, even the game of the year.
A true masterpiece of gaming, one of the best games ever released, graphics are stunning, soundtrack is spectacular, the combat is fun, the story is good, the bosses are well designed, the world is beaultiful and full of life, it's all amazing. Now let's talk about people that are giving negative reviews to the gam. "It has PS3 graphics", no it doesn't, you can clearly see the difference between DS3 and ER, it doesnt have next-gen graphics because its a cross-platform game, you all should be happy its available for old-gen. "The world is dead and theres nothing to do", if your dumbass had played the game for more than 5 minutes you would know thats not true. "There is no story", literally just play the game, you skipped every cutscene and now want to blame the game for something you did. "Soundtrack is bad", if you had at least played the game up until the first boss you would know its not bad. "Extremely buggy and unstable", I have to agree a little bit here, but not much, I have 50+ hours into the game, and the only bug I found was one I jumped near a cliffside, my character suddenly slides down the cliff without me touching the controller and takes damage but doesnt die, that was a one time thing, never happened again, and about Fps, yes, it does have some Fps drops some times (and very rarely), but they are almost unnoticeable, if those little drops annoy you, youre probably some **** that thinks 120 Fps is bad. Thats all I have to say, Elden Ring is a great game.
This game is an overhyped dung pile From Software marketed this game as a brand new Epic RPG Adventure that's accessible for everyone! which is a bold faced Lie as the game is just a Dark Souls game branded under a new name that's it. From Software are so lazy they just copy and pasted Dark Souls 3 then added an "Open World" to it. The bosses are totally unfair to the point of being impossible to beat even by Dark Souls standards, I feel this game falls under the category of misleading and false advertisement do yourself a favor and avoid this game
I've never been a fan of Dark Souls games. I tried Bloodborne because it was so highly rated but gave up after not making it through the tutorial. However, I'm kind of loving Elden Ring. I feel like I've died so many times and lost so many runes that I'd probably be maxed by now. That's kind of on me. Getting better
I'm not a fanboy of the Soul's game. I did demon soul and one of the dark soul only. This Game is absolutely a Master piece. In his type of game; there is no better. The level design is amazing. The open world always rewarding; all the secret cave and dungeon are so cool. you're always getting surprised somehow; they really did use their brain to build the game. You can feel the love in the game! The Design of the game, dark medieval fantasy, is so well done!! A true masterpiece; i really though the new about this game was just over the top as always with the **** no. Masterpiece 9/10!
Best game ever made, especially if you're a FromSoftware fan. Don't let anyone else tell you otherwise.
The best game I have played in my life. The game is utterly and truly amazing for me, I can't even count how many times I've said damn that is absolutely incredible to myself. Everything about this game is so geniously put together. I think this could be the best game of all time.
I have never played any of the Souls games before, but being a connoisseur of RPGs and hearing of this supposedly legendary RPG series I felt it was time I finally bit the bullet. I figured with Martin penning the game's story it would be rather grand involving political intrigue and riveting tales of man's inner folly. Having grown up on D&D and CRPGs I expected to have a fair idea of what I was getting into. Much to my surprise, I found a vast open world filled with nothing to do. I created my character to wander around some lifeless void. Oh, it looks rather grand the art direction is quite phenomenal though the textures muddied and the game is plagued with pop-ins as well. I am able to forgive the occasional jank for a good and true RPG. I however did not find one in this game. I'm not sure what constitutes for an RPG these days amongst the general public, but generally it's a game with roleplaying options of which this game seems to have none other than building your character's stats and skills. All problems are solved through this game's languid, ponderous, and clunky combat. No non-combat or social options in this supposed RPG. The exploration as as dull and lifeless as the world in which it inhabits. Some scant crafting materials to create some mediocre items with minimal stat gains. Undoubtedly the usual carrot and the stick seen in the MMO sphere influenced this trash itemization. The dungeons were quite interesting and a more linear experience and I killed Margit after ten or twelve tries. The game's molasses combat was made even more frustrating due to the various technical issues that plague this supposed RPG (Hint it's not an RPG it's just combat pornography) Your character's hitboxes are far too large causing the enemies to strike you frequently when you're clearly outside of their swing radius. There's also numerous frame rate drops making the game's sole feature of combat extremely difficult since the technical execution of the developers lack of talent is holding you back further than the difficulty of the game is. All in all this game is not an RPG, there are no roleplaying options. It's just combat pornography for the youth's violent **** sadist rituals. If you have any class avoid this buggy mess like the plague it is and cast it into the fire! I for one got a full refund from my local gamestore, but I hope to save others the expense. We all know this game doesn't deserve a perfect score. Roleplay 0 out of 100 Music 20 out of 100 Story 0 out of 100 Gameplay 0 out of 100 Don't let reviewers beholden to the gaming industry cheat you hard working folks out of your money!
My introduction to the ‘Soulsbourne’ series was Dark Souls II, and my initial impression of the franchise was much the same as many of the negative reviews in this thread. After a steep learning curve in which, above all else, I learned to embrace failure, I discovered the real beauty of these games. Since then I’ve spent countless hours with each of the titles that preceded Elden ring and I can honestly say that it distills the best attributes of each of those games into something close to perfection. Elden Ring is perhaps the most accessible souls game to date. While it can be immensely challenging from the start, the ability to explore a richly populated open world means that it’s not as relentlessly oppressive as the drudgery of reaching an impasse in previous titles. The revised combat and play forming mechanics imbue this game with a fluidity that makes it a joy to navigate, and the art style, visual effects and sound design are beautifully cinematic. It wasn’t until I defeated the first major boss that I caught a glimpse of the immense scale of this gaming world. What’s more impressive is how organic and living the environments and encounters feel. I am truly awe struck by this sublime creation. Admittedly I didn’t partake in much of the hype leading up to its release, and more or less bought it on a whim (usually I’d wait a few months until the game comes down in price); however, buying this game at launch is truly a worthy investment as the sense of community and discovery experienced by partaking in such a cultural phenomenon is nothing short of exhilarating. A word of advice for those finding themselves frustrated by its difficulty - try fingers, but hole.
this game is a huge pile of **** made by morons. The gameplay is lame, the graphics ****, everything is wrong in this turd
Buddy told me to check this game out I used to play some action games back on the PS2. Not really my jam these days, but I figured what they hell why not. Let me tell you this is no God of War. Booted this game up thought it looked okay, kind of like an old 360 game, but whatever. Must be a good story or something. Speaking of story I guess other than the one eyed girl and the crappy cutscene there isn't really one. Figured since it had the Game of Thrones writer on it it may be cool, but I guess this is the reason why everyone hates the damned show now. He must not be very good, probably another SJW propped up by the hollywood elites. Dodge mechanics are pretty clunky and don't seem to work quite right.. Seems like your character's hit box is larger than Nancy Pelosi's slush fund. Clipping seems to guarantee that the enemies kill you through walls and rocks and other crap, but you never seem to go through them. I presume it's some intentional feature to create a faux sense of challenge to the game. The alternative is that the programmers lack the technical wherewithal to pull of what they're striving for. Now that I think on that though it's probably the latter with the number of bugs this game has. Frame rate drops are pretty harsh and consistently occur on boss encounters. Maybe it would have been a cool game if the story was any interesting or if the developers were worth a lick, but they seem to be reaching for the stars when they can't even grab the dirt off the floor very well. Play God of War any of them and hard if you wanna play a real good game. I'll be taking this back to gamestop and telling them the damned thing is broken to get my money back because it's just awful.
Absolutely the best video game I've ever played. Do they even make other video games anymore?
just this... amazing. From Software never disappoints! I've been a fan since I first started with Bloodborne... then went to Souls... now this. Amazing. Beautiful landscapes... awesome music... epic boss fights.
Very good game.İ played it its graphics are nice but bosses are easy.Gameplay is good.There must be more objects in the **** i loved it.
It's too much for just a "Big Dark Souls" it's more like the evolution of Dark Souls. The only down for the PS4 version is the loading screen that sometimes take more than 1 minutes.
Poorly optimized and riddled with bugs. Don't buy the hype from the same people who told you Cyberpunk was a 10/10 masterpiece. Just another generic FromSoftware game.
PS4 is Old hardware for a new generation game - don't expect the flashiest of graphics. Great game otherwise. From Software at their best.
If you haven't played a Dark Souls game before - there's a steep learning curve ahead. As a seasoned DS veteran even I had a rough time starting this game. But for those newcomers, those who give up early and those who "don't get it" - you need to understand that it's your second attempt where things really kick off. Typically in a souls game you get crushed, you lose your souls, you invest in the wrong stats, but on your second attempt when you "get it", and you whack your souls in to your favourite weapon of choice you will breeze through what was previously difficult - and that's the hook to these games. For Dark Souls fans like myself - it's an odd start. It's unusual to have the wide open world, however everything else plays very much like Dark Souls. As soon as I found my first cave, learned how to summon and whacked a few points in Dex - I was hooked. You can open your map - find something that looks odd, whack a beacon there and travel. You will gladly get distracted by interests and oddities along the way - and every little settlement, cave and outpost feels meaningful, with great rewards. You have to trust in From. They have your user experience at heart. You have to know that these guys excel at hiding away incredible locations, quests and items for you to discover, and you're just not going to see any of that with 10 hours of gameplay. People are too quick to pick up a controller and give up nowadays. In the 90's when you had one game a year, you'd explore every inch. And that's how you play this game. It's a marathon not a sprint! Ultimately - it looks, plays and feels like Dark Souls in an open world, with lots of smaller interesting dungeons and bigger set pieces. No - the graphics aren't incredible, but the atmosphere is there. The souls series has never set out to be a graphical masterpiece - and I'd rather they keep doing what they are doing, producing compelling, stellar games - than bust out one boring yet graphically impression EA / Ubisoft title per year. You might be daunted by the big open world, whether you're a dark souls fan or not. I know I was - but trust the process and let it sink it's teeth in to you - and you'll be coming back to drop a 9 in these reviews.
This is probably the best Action RPG I ever played so far, it's challenging, always surprising, artistically stunning, I can't really find any gameplay flaws, it's just a joy to play for hours and hours.
From Software with another big winner. Incredible variety and level design. 11/10
Stupid idea to lock the language. Unless there is a patch to enable users to change the language to English, this game deserves 0 rating
This game is amazing. The art style, combat, the variaty of builds is unbeliaveble
A big map doesn't make a better game. Uninteresting, bland and boring. Doesn't deserve any of it's perfect scores. Heck, doesn't deserve more than a 6 if you stretch it a lot. The controls are just as bad as the "story" and visuals. The character feels heavy and moves so slow. Feels clunky. Sound was also uninteresting. Nothing sticks to mind. So, a very below average game that was overhyped by possibly one of the most toxic fanbases there are. This kind of game needs to stop being produced.
From Software has done it again. Defying tired gaming cliques and forcing gamers to come to grips with how much they don’t want to let go of handholding. ‘It’s got no story!’ - Yes. Yes it does. You just have to use your senses to bring it into focus. This is intentional. ‘The combat is janky!’ - No. No it’s not. You just don’t have any skill yet. Learning takes patience and effort. You’d probably be more at home in Call of Duty 47. The graphics ****!’ - Sigh. The art direction is inspired and may be the greatest example of visual storytelling in recent memory. I could go on. If you like being spoon fed a generic story and mashing buttons randomly this game probably isn’t for you. If you want the best combat in modern gaming, coupled with a rich environment that truly tests your skills this game is made but you.
Absolute masterpiece, as someone who loves the other SoulBorne games I am so happy to have this. I feel it is a good start for new comings to these types of games and for me personally believe this will be my game of the year as I find it hard to focus on one game for a long period of time but this game has already had many hours sunk into it. I don't usually rate anything 10 but for me it's awesome. LOVE IT!
…No underwater exploration, you can’t climb, you can’t glide… Graphically, it’s okay. Has neverwinter feel to it, I hate neverwinter. Combat, is horribly unresponsive. Enemies are cool to look at but a pain to kill. Unfortunately you have to cheese much of the enemies. Because they have unlimited stamina, so stupid. There’s one item in the game that wrecks everything especially bosses because it removes a huge chunk of %hp and it’s available early on in the game. There’s a difference between not having stamina on your character which keeps you from acting, BUT it’s horrible when you have full stamina and your character decides not to role or attack… or you can’t change weapon. Bosses have huge hit boxes… This game feels unfinished, like Anthem. I’m really not sure what music the reviewers are talking about, it’s the same combat music throughout the game. Repetitive… If you guys ever played dragons dogma, that’s basically the graphics. It’s especially noticeable on cloth clothing. R.R Martin really only gave suggestions, BTW not sure if they’ll get sued but a few of the enemies are from Game of Thrones… Example the tall soldiers with long white hair, frozen skin with ice javelins. Masterpiece… No… Decent maybe. I’ve lost a lot of respect for many of these profesional reviewers. It’s an okay game. There’s a formula to masterpiece games and Zelda nailed it. The map isn’t big, compared to other games. The only thing really going for this game is it’s pedigree. It’s like a minor upgrade from demon souls, and that’s even a thin line.
this game is really great, do yourself a favor and play it, i think for the next few years it will remain a game that is still followed and appreciated
After playing 129 hours of Elden Ring I've realised I just dont have the constitution for massive open worlds anymore. They are just too big now. The problem, in one word, is 'burnout'. More is not always more. And if you're like me, you want to see and do everything in every area before moving on, it starts to feel like it will never end. Loose ends and open loops quite literally give me acute anxiety. With a game as massive and jam-packed as ER the feeling of busily trying to cover every inch of the map becomes overwhelmingly stressful. And it's not to say that fromsoft haven't gone balls out with this game. They def have. It's big, in-depth, connected and mostly awe-inspiring. It's just, **** much. Especially for a semi functioning adult with other things in life to think about. You can have too much **** thing. So, it feels like this game is my life now until I complete it and honestly I dont think I want to even attempt another run. It takes so much effort and burden. The only thing that makes it tolerable now is how easy it is to summon helpers. When that eventually dies down and signs start to dry up there will be portions of the game that will be an even greater time sink. Also, yes, I like exploration but so much of this is repetitive. Caves, ruins, rune towers, bosses, dragons, castle, caravans etc. In previous Fromsoft entries each area had unique flare and individually crafted, specific detail incorporated into it. There's that here too. But, the sheer size of this game is made of quite bland filler. I guess that's the trade-off. But for me I'd gave preferred something 30% tighter, more focussed and memorable than this never ending cycle of busy work unearthing things you may or may not use. It's exhausting. Also, the NPC questlines are ridiculously obtuse. There's absolutely no way you could complete them without the use of guides and the internet. Fine. That's always been the case in DaS to some extent. But, these make no sense. The whole game is just so proud of the fact it leaves you to figure it out that it's actually silly. So much so I'm almost agreeing with the critics that say it's just needlessly hard. 129 hours of my run time could've been cut down by 50 hours of going online to search for answers. This game is not self-contained enough. Lastly, I've had this feeling with two other big games in recent years 1. RDR2 2. BOTW. By the end of both these games I just wanted it to end. I'd had enough of collecting every last trinket to the point of drudgery. You might say "just do the main questline". Well, FOMO is a strong emotion in these kinds of games and one that is hard to fight when its intentionally utilised and when you've spent £50 on it. There's so much to love about ER. It is stunning in places. So why do I feel like I'm burning out? It's just too much game. Too much quantity not enough quality. Less is more. Get rid of Torrent, pin back some of the scale, up some of the unique detail of repeated areas, tighten her up and we have a game that doesn't ask that you must cease all other things in your life to complete. Just wanted to add a somewhat crass analogy to sum it up. Have you ever been in bed with a girl you're really into, and it all feels exciting, sensuous, sensitive and horny, but at some point it just goes on that little too long and you're both carrying on to try to get back that earlier feeling, but by now youre only sinking more and more cost and energy into it, and the fun bit is now dwarfed by the effort bit, you're just covered in sweat and you start to forget the beautiful bit and question why you're still plugging away, but you still don't want to give up before you finish, but when you do it's not that romantic and beautiful? That's ER. I can't put it any other way. Apologies if that's too sexual but the shoe fits.
Aside form some performance issues this game is one of my favourites. Level of freedom and sence of discovery is staggering.
If you’re a fan of high fantasy, open world rpgs and the soulsbourne genre, then this is the game of your dreams. The world & character design is amazing. The scale of the world, the density, the verticality are incredible. There’s nothing else like it. Ignore the trolls reviews binging this game, it’s a masterpiece.
Its most of the best parts of previous games, just a lot more of it, placed in a large open world that's exciting to explore. What more can I say?
ELDEN RING＝An eternal masterpiece. The games this studio makes are great every time. Works beyond this may not come out anymore.
awesome game huge world to explore great graphic awesome world built great music choices best game i highly recommend it a must play don't let the bad reviews of Elden Ring steer you off make up your own mind it's nothing more then entitled gamers whining like babes cause they are ungrateful. the game is a perfect balance of dark souls and something new would highly recommend it for players that like a challenge.
An improvement over the previous games, world is fun to explore, cool secrets, loot and world bosses. The story is great and the bosses are very fun for the most part. There are some frame drops, most of which happen while mounted, or raining, . But there are no gamebreaking bugs, and the game was stable for me for 99% of the time, certainly more stable than Sekiro or DS3
10 hours in and I can I say it's one of the best game I've ever played! Story wise, gameplay wise, everything is amazing. I'm not saying everyone is gonna love it, but Fromsoft fans will absolutely love it.
WINDOWS 10 only? when Dark Souls 3 worked perfectly on Windows 7? Unacceptable
**** ass, no arabic I can't understand **** plus why the **** there's no gay ppl ?? Stop being so ****ing homophobic
From has really done it this time, this is one of the best games ever made.
the game graphics look like an old game, huge drops in frames especially in online, the online freezes the game sometimes and the only solution is to close it, the game was not ready to be released it's the cyberpunk soulslike version.
Elden Ring is a good game, but... The game has a big optimization problem. Looks like it's from 2017 on the graphisc. Musics bad. You should be ashamed of bluepoint. If we leave this aside there's a lot of sloppy work in the game. They enlarged a normal enemy in sekiro, bloodborne and dark souls and added it to the game as a boss. The venues were the same. How many more times will you use Anor Londo? Even the animations are the same. Also dualsense does not vibrate once. Aren't you ashamed to do this? I don't understand how they give 10 to this game. Did you get any money from the producers? Horizon F.W. 88 Elden Rind 97. Engrossing...
This game is incredible, don't be deterred by people rating it low they don't know what they're talking about. This game is legitimately in contention for one of the greatest games ever made, it's a masterpiece. It's like what BOTW did for Zelda, but pushed it further. Do not believe these low ratings from users, they aren't justified in the very least. This game is ground breaking in the accord of games like ocarina of time, metal gear solid, gear 5, etc
Runs just like dark souls 3 and Bloodborne do on PS4. I haven't seen bugs or crashes/frame rate drops. If you have played any other fromsoftware games on PS4, the performance won't affect your gameplay
Have people lost their mind? I had to make an account for this, because I couldnt believe the amount of bad reviews. This game is apart from not-the-best-but-totally-acceptible performance maybe the best From Soft Ware title they released so far. And to anybody, who has an idea how good these games usually are: yes, they die it again. If not better! Would give this a 9.5/10 just for the lack oft super smoothness. Everything else is flipping perfection! Kind of Dark Souls 3 mixed with Breath of the Wild ... Buy and play this masterpiece!
This game is so perfect, alive world... no comparation, i loved this history
elden ring need patch now freezes on boss fight please fix it so i can beat the game
This game is getting raving reviews from journalists, simply because FromSoft is trendy, and you gotta at least pretend to love them to be in. Sadly, the truth is that the game is the weakest of the Souls lot. The open world aspect is PS3 era, and so are the game mechanics. And while Fromsoft's visual style was brill back when Bloodborne launched, its all just rather dreary and dismal today. As a game its playable, like all souls games, after bit of practice. But like with earlier FromSoft games, it suffers from lack of story and lack of direction and meaningful goals. You just try to get your hero stronger to beat the next boss around, just like you did in previous games, and that is all. Way too basic to last. And as far as cinematics go, they're all pretty clumsy when compared to the utterly brill cinematics of Ghost of Tsushima. Would I recommend this game to anyone? Well, I loved the older Souls games, and this one, frankly, lacks the magic of them. So no. Wait till it is on sale, as by then they will have, hopefully, polished it up a bit as well.
This is just a 10/10 for me. The game play is really good and I love the diversity in enemies and landscape. Graphics are great. Its not like ultimate extra detailed but it still looks good and doesn´t look like a ps3 game like people are saying. I haven´t run in any major glitches but I did had some really noticeable frame-rate drops really low I don´t have a system of how I can see what my fps is but I didn´t die because of it happening and it only happened once and they probably going to fix that but for the rest I haven´t noticed anything bad. The open world is amazing and I could just walk or ride in a direction and I would find something new and cool. I like the starting class options a lot cooler than before with in my eyes more different option. People are still saying it´s not more accessible but it really is. You just have to take the lose and go a different direction or if its a fight in the open world run to it with your horse get your runes and run away and then go fight more enemies and level. I really recommend but you have to give it a real chance because the first boss you see is stronger than you on purpose so you learn to go away and level up.
Namco-Bandai's harebrained distribution choices for this game are what earns a score of zero. For some baffling reason this company decided to only release a Korean / Japanese / Chinese / Thai language version of this game for all of South East Asia and Hong Kong too. Even on Thai PSN, there isn't an option to even buy an English language copy of this game. They really messed up, I hope they patch this.
The best game ever. I think it's a historical masterpiece. Everyone should play this game. I was impressed. The supreme game. I love it.
shameless steal from bandai. Bought the game in thailand and English is not supported in the text, with no means to change the setting. How backward is that ? especially when it was advertised as english supported on the text. Extremely dissapointed. Stay away from this game in your are in asia.
Not playable after the patch today. There have been minor performance issues on the launch day but after a small update today there are missing frames. Maybe they turned on hardcore mode but how should you fight if the boss attacks you and it skips the attack frames. You are getting one hitted without being able to see what's happening or to react. Frame skipes and stuttering makes it unplayable .
Quite possibly the best FROMSOFT game to date, a shame that it has been infested with raiders to ruin it's score.
The game is truly living up to its expectations. Great graphics, mesmerizing music, the gameplay is so much satisfying, and for a rpg the amout of choices you can put in your character, either character creator or the equipement you can find, or the weapons moveset you can customize, it is a charm. The game is gigantic, over 100 hours if not more, ennemies changes depending of what zone you are in, the landscapes are very diverses and varied. Lot of side characters, and funnily enough the situation you meet them are so much unique. You can build the character you want. Dual wielding, knight, assassin, mage, priest there is not limit of what you can do. There is endless replayability. The game is alternating between challenging and easy, depending of your skills. And the liberty it give you is rewarding. It does not take you by the hand and tell you what to do. No it is your aventure! In that mindset, you will have a lot of fun. The world is so rich. Things are hidden everywhere, each situation is unique, the amount of details they putted into Elden Ring is insane. There is fps issue on pc and ps5 that I hears of, but on every other system tye game work like a charm. It is the best game I played since rdr2. No easy mode 10/10 would buy again.
AN AMAZING EXPERIENCE!!! 10/10 I recommend it yo everyone And also for performance it works incredibly well,
Software and Game industry should hire more testers and QA engineers to avoid buggy and terrible performance launches like this!
It´s perfect. Beautiful and perfect Gameplay. Simply 10/10. Dark Souls + Sekiro + Breath of the Wild.
Do you want to go with the red or white or if it was too long for you too if I don’t get the red one for the next time you
6.0 really? Guys, this game is amazing. Yes it has similarities with Dark Souls III… for the best! I understand the frame drop anger but remember how DS3 was at launch. Trust me, this game is worth it and does not deserve a 6.0. The main bosses are amazing, the new spells, weapons and armor sets are amazing, the OST is amazing. It’s just so great of game.
Simply 10/10, FromSoft perfected the Souls-formula, and delivers yet again!
I was not sure if Souls formula was going to work in open-world but From absolutely nailed it. Exploration is super rewarding with secrets and bosses almost everywhere.
FRAME RATE DROPS AND GRAPHICS AREN'T AS IMPORTANT AS THE GAMEPLAY. This game is amazing. The story, the music, the art style, the gameplay itself is all absolutely amazing. If you are debating on getting this game and love other Fromsoftware games: GET THIS GAME! It's incredibly fun, has good stealth, lots to do, great co-op and A LOT of fun. Seriously, it's the best game I've played in years.
I’m sorry, but a game releasing in 2022 with PS3 level graphics that constantly fluctuates from 30 - 60 FPS (even in performance mode) is unacceptable. Furthermore, even if we disregard the frame rate issues, I’m not impressed with the gameplay at all. This has easily the clunkiest combat of any souls game so far; I find the movement is often unresponsive, and the hit boxes are horribly implemented. I’ll also add that if you weren’t a fan of Dark Souls, this game isn’t for you. It’s effectively Dark Souls 3, but this time it’s open world. Speaking of open world, let’s discuss that shall we? The map is pretty big, and gives you a lot of freedom and exploration possibilities, which is nice. However, there’s very little environmental variety, like at all. It’s all a very similar bleak landscape that never changes. This would be fine if the game was linear, but, for a game that encourages exploration so much, it kinda makes it feel repetitive. Perhaps a bigger issue, however, is that there simply isn’t a whole lot going on in the world. In many of the reviews for this game (particularly ign’s), they state that the game has a lot of variety in special events happening in the open world. However, I found that most of these “special” events are limited to being ambushed by enemy’s. That’s really the meat of exploring the map, is being ambushed by enemies. This is alleviated somewhat by the fact that the game has excellent enemy variety, from both a visual and mechanical standpoint. Though I don’t think that’s enough to save it from feeling repetitive (especially considering that many of the enemies are recycled from past FromSoftware games). Finally, I’ll talk about the traversal itself. The main positive here is that this is the first FromSoftware title to add a jump button, which is pretty necessary for this game. Beyond that though, it sort of goes downhill from there. There’s no climbing mechanic, no underwater exploration, no flying mechanics, etc. Are these things necessary to the game? No. But for as much as the reviews emphasized the “freedom of exploration” this game provides to you, it sort of rings hollow once you actually enter the game. So yeah, those are my thoughts as of right now. I know I am very much in the minority when I say this, but that’s how I feel. I would’ve given it a higher rating if it simply had a framerate lock option (even at 30fps!). But for me, personally, I have a hard time playing game with fluctuating framerates (especially to this degree)
FROMSOFT delivers yet again. Please buy this; support this company, there one of the very few good ones left.
Elden Ring is a joy and a masterpiece. It's not only one of the best RPGs, but it's one of the best games in general.
No matter how many studios try to replicate the formula, From Software is the only one that can deliver authentic Souls experience. [Issue#259, p.36]
From combat, story to art direction the game is a masterpiece. The various weapons and spells are all mostly fun use The bosses are all greatly designed. All the areas are unique and fun to look at. My favorite bit of lore is about Lenny.
The apotheosis of Soulslike games, From Software's absolute masterpiece and one of the most beautiful games of all time. It marked me.
Almost perfect game ever. Only negative aspect is imbalance skill-based-match-making in duels. Dlc and base game players fight in the same arena. Very bad sbmm, because Dlc has very high damage talismans and weapons comparing to base game.
The game doesn't earn a 10 due to its lackluster co-op multiplayer. The most fun I had was battling tough foes in a dreamlike world with my friend. It's amusing to watch streamers struggle after you've beaten it.
Must play game, i spend 4 days to complete but i still need to explore so much more.
Elden Ring will still be talked about 30 - 40 years after its 2022 release date. And for good reasons, this is the perfect game. Challenging gameplay, breath-taking scenery, huge world to explore and full of lore. And on top of all the insane amount of content in the base game, the expansion is added to the buffet. 10/10 . Do yourself a favor and buy this game if you haven't already.
I have never played a game this good. This was the first souls game I played, and this has successfully made me fall in love with the genre. I cannot make any comments on the graphics because I was playing on a lower-end television, but I can comment on the boss design. Most of the bosses are incredible. Just incredibly well made fights, with the exception of a few, like Regal Ancestral Spirit. RAS was just simply not made for melee, which is the play style I always take up. I haven't ever completely a magic-only run, but from what I have heard magic is extremely fun to play. I just simply prefer the difficulty that comes with melee. Melee combat feels really, really good, although it does not flow as well as Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice. The majority of the weapons in the game are extremely well made and have some purpose. Bows and crossbows are pretty much entirely pointless, though. I have pretty much no complaints with the game, other than it not being cross-platform. I think if the game was cross-platform I'd only enjoy it more. I suppose the game could also benefit from Seamless Co-op being a vanilla feature, but other than that the game is flawless.
What can I say from Elden ring. This has been definitely the game that has challenged me the most but also the game that once I finished made me feel proud. On series X looks amazing, 10/10 in graphics,Lore 8/10 (because a lot of stuff is not told, you need to be reading descriptions or investigating by yourself), enemies 10/10 (f*** Malenia),movement 9/10, combat 10/10. Simply this game is amazing. Thanks FromSoftware!!!!!
This game is so terrible that I can honestly say I didn't enjoy a single moment of it. Total waste of money! Before this game was released paid reviews were everywhere saying how it's the best thing ever made. In reality you spend 8 hours trying to leave the starting area and never get anywhere, ever. Then you realize you've wasted money on this giant pile of crap.
100/100 The Godfather part 2 of gaming. Beautiful, challenging, rewarding, amazing weapons, great world, loads to do. An actual perfect game.
I’m wary of giving anything a 10, but considering I’d give it a 9.5 or 9.6, I think it’s fair to round up. Anyways, I haven’t touched a souls game in the past; this was my first. I was worried about the approachability of the game, and if that’s concern you have, it’s a fair one. However, I found myself loving the lack of hand-holding and level of challenge the game offers. It’s truly unlike any other open world game I’ve played—and I mean that in the best way. You have a ridiculous amount of freedom to tackle the game in the way that you want to. If you’d like a bit of help, there is a plethora of resources available online. You can use as few or as many of them as you’d wish. To be clear, you do not, in any way, need to use said guides—just meant to say the option is there. Even as a new player, I found myself consulting 3rd party guides sporadically at best. Maybe I’d be stuck on a boss. Or perhaps I wouldn’t quite understand damage scaling and its relation to particular stats. Even then, I took to the internet briefly, coming away with information that was helpful but, again, not absolutely necessary. As a whole, the game respects you as a player. In a world where open world games tend to feel the need to mark every single point of interest on a mini map, fearful that you might miss something, Elden Ring goes in the opposite direction. You will miss things. But when the lands between is as packed with content and secrets as it is, you’ll probably find that missing things is worth it when the trade-off is an almost overwhelming sense of discovery. Stumbling upon a seemingly innocuous tunnel only to find out that it contains a sprawling dungeon never gets old. If you’re worried about the reputation of the souls franchise and its unforgiving gameplay, don’t be. You’ll be fine. You won’t like the game if you despise any level of frustration in the games you play; however, if you like a challenge, you’re in for a treat.
One of the best games i've ever played. Truly masterpiece that combines excellency in his narrative with a very polished set of mechanics.
This dark souls-like and open-world adventure continues to mock the player in symbolism and difficulty. The experience is rewarding with detailed, immersive, and atmospheric aesthetics while punishing with little guidance for direction and strategy. Navigation is scenic and relaxing, however, traversal is sometimes difficult and frustrating. A companion guide wiki may seem desired for completion and during moments of uncertainty. Multiplayer is flexible, aiming for a choice-driven interaction whether it is pvp or co-op. Overall, it is a great game with demanding skill requirements.
Amazing game with incredible depth to its adventuring, gameplay and lore. Enough said. Play it.
I love souls games. I have played and finished almost all of them, especially the Bloodborne and Dark Souls series many times. But none of the final bosses were like this. All we can do is run away, run away, run away, this does not make the player feel like he is playing a game, or does not give the taste of that great final boss fight. It's no fun just running away and not hitting. This is the first time you've been disgusted with the end of a Souls game. Miyazaki, there was no need to spoil such a wonderful series to satisfy your own ego. I don't always want to run away, I also want to hit or kill sometimes. Worst final boss you've ever done.
Possibly the best Fromsoftware game ever. Some will say the gameplay is bad, the story is not existent or something along those lines. But that is simply not true, the game is great with the only down side being a few hard spots for platforming! Get this game it’s awesome
One of the best games of all time. I loved every second of it and it deserved game of the year. Brilliant boss ideas and great execution. The best feeling when you beat something that you have been on for hours. Great that you can play it in 30 different ways! Brilliant idea and just a great execution. The only thing I will say is that it did become hard to explore when unlocking all of the map.
does it even have to be said? game is a ten , hard and worth it. sad i wrote this review so late
I enjoyed a lot of Sekiro's gameplay, Bloodborne's ambiance and story, and DS3's overall vibe as a game. I had Elden Ring on my wishlist for almost two years, and when I finally got it, I was **** combat in Elden Ring quickly becomes monotonous. Once you acquire a good weapon, which requires some initial effort, you tend to stick with it for the rest of the game. This is because there are only a few truly effective weapons, and upgrading a weapon is such an investment that farming materials to level up another one feels **** game features a wide variety of enemies, but unfortunately, about 70% of them share the same moveset and slow behavior, making them easy to defeat in 2-3 hits. The most interesting enemies are the faster and more aggressive ones, but even they become repetitive after the first **** story is almost non-existent unless you delve into secondary quests, which often feel like you're just running errands.I wish this game were as engaging as Sekiro, Bloodborne, or Dark Souls 3. Those games reward exploration and provide a sense of progression through gameplay, rather than relying solely on character stats.
I have played Elden Ring for hundreds of hours. There will probably never ever be any other game which will come even close to this time investment. My first character, who is now in NG+2, has now about 300 hours on the clock and I am still enjoying playing this game a lot. So why, you might think, do I give this game only an average score? Other than probably many other players who started with Elden Ring as their first Soulslike game and who gave the game a higher score? I played all the original Souls games and I would like to rate the game as an evolution of the Souls genre that has been created by Fromsoft and which originated with Demon's Souls (2009) and which became popular with the widely acclaimed Dark Souls series (2011-2016). Elden Ring follows these footsteps and brings in new ideas, most importantly presents a coherent and massive open world. So for the first time a Soulslike game has this kind of setting and I generally like it that Fromsoft always try out new things with their brand instead of iterating the same type of game over and over again. However: the experiment failed this time. The open world in Elden Ring has just the same problems as many other action RPG's have that do not jail the player in combat encounters. Namely, the player can always run away and fight normal enemies or even bosses from a distance. While you would not do this most of the time, because it doesn't make much fun to play the game like this, the simple fact that this always is an option to the player removes any of the engaging atmospheres of the Dark Souls games where the environments are always spatially confined areas with a logical and challenging enemy placement combined sometimes with tricky platforming sections. All this is not well represented anymore in Elden Ring and I even have difficulties to see the game as a Soulslike game due to this when comparing it to other recent Soulslike games from other developers (Lies of P, Neowiz and Round8 (2023) and Lords of the Fallen, Hexworks (2023)). I can not list all the flaws of Elden Ring due to the openworld setting here, yet one aspect of it is very annoying and immersion breaking. Namely there are many field bosses who can despawn when you fought them on the edge of their spawn area. That is, enemies can not follow you across the whole map, but will eventually disappear in the middle (!) of the combat (!!) and you have to run back to their original spawning location to continue the fight. These are the situations where you notice: ah, yes, this is just a computer game made by bad programmers who do not understand (yet) how to build an open world with engaging enemy encounters. While this may sound harsh towards Fromsoft who made some of my most favourite games of all times, I think it is important that we, the players and fans of their games do not only see the good but also point to the bad design choices in their games. I also do not think that the Soulslike genre does not work well per se with an open world setting. But the above mentioned problems need to be addressed and maybe Fromsoft should take a look at other open world games in order to see how they can improve on their current iteration of the Soulslike games. To name but a few open world games: GTA5 or RDR2 by Rockstar Games are probably the best open world games ever made. They are not the same genre, of course, but what I mean here is, for example, that a police car that chases you in GTA5 will literally follow you across the whole map. The Rockstar open world games have no limits, no borders that restrict certain interactions. Another example I would like mention is Dragon's Dogma 2 (Capcom, 2024). Here the open world is in many areas segmented by spatial restrictions, like narrow valleys, rivers, buildings, caves, etc. Unlike Elden Ring's map, which has wide space areas most of the time. And this is a crucial distinction of the design of the map of both games. In fact, the environment with enemy encounters in DD2 are much more close to what one is used to in the classical Souls games which are non open world. In a nutshell: Elden Ring did not revolutionise open world games (as I have read in another review) but the developers still need to learn a lot on how to make a good open world game that supports the atmosphere and gameplay of a Souls game. Elden Ring was their first attempt on this, but it did not work out very well.
Very good game! Fromosft's best probally, really fun, very dark, very challenging, GOTY.
This is a good game and could be a great game if they fixed the multiplayer. Currently, if you are playing co-op, you will get invaded by a griefer. I would prefer a 5 minute unskippable ad for hemorrhoid cream. The griefers aren't particularly difficult, even with starting gear, but they interrupt the flow of the game. There should be an option to keep them out.
This is perfect down to every last detail. The gameplay is perfect and the story is incredible if you can understand it.
I got theplatform wrong on my first try of this review and everything I wrote gotdeleted when I changed it to xbox. I don't want to rewrite all that so I'll just say that it is an amazing game
Three stitches in my hand because of this game 10/10 would recommend for sure
This game legitimately blew my mind. The seemingly endless depth, combined with the seemingly endless breadth of content was just a massive eye opener.
I can't really put in Words how much I love this masterpiece. I got it when it came out and still play it. 100/10
GOTY. Nothing else to say. 10/10 game. My first Platina ever. Community is great. Graphics looks amazing. Story is really good too. One of 2 games that year that i can rate 10/10 along side Plague tale: Requiem. Both of these games for me GOTY.
The game is great, i loved all souls games, but i do hate that every place in the world has the same ingredients: Some Enemies, maybe an npc, items, maybe a boss and thats it. There is nothing special, nothing that really surprices you, but i do like the secrets, the enemy types, weapons, the items, the world. The whole game is great, but i hope if they do a new souls game one day, they will take a look at Baldus Gate 3 and think about a world with not the same ingredients with each part of the world. Also the loading times on xbox series S are sooooooo annyoing. But the game is my goty 2022.
its not that hard but always you have to getgud like other games... fromsoft for live
Flawless. Miyazaki does it again. This is an era defining game and will go down in history
Elden Ring's expansive world and abundant content are impressive, though at times, the streamlined experience of its predecessors felt more focused. Still, it's an exceptional game worth exploring.
This is a damn good game This being my second even FromSoftware game, I was met with surprise. The game was difficult but never felt unfair. The challenge was high but never impossible. The biggest gripe I had with the game was the rigid leveling system. Items and upgrading equipment had me very confused and even now, I am left having to YouTube/Google certain things. And I do have a slight issue with the late-game difficulty, where I felt rewarded for being upper-leveled to just feel like I'm at square one in the late game. However, the pros of this game outweigh the cons. I enjoy the world. Never has a world felt as rich as it does in an open-world video game. This cracks my top 3 open-world, right behind Red Dead II and Tears of the Kingdom. And then the combat... it's so fun. Learning the enemy move set and having the ability to use spells make the game so much more fun. I gained a whole other experience playing this game that I haven't felt since a Zelda title release. Definitely one of my favorite games of all time now.
The best boss fights gaming, incredible combat, complex lore, and one of the best sound tracks out there. While not perfect, it's the closest any game I've played has come to complete perfection.
the combat is fun and the loop is addictive. I think there are better “hard” games that ultimately feel more fair with better level design. Hollow Knight in particular comes to mind. However the world building in this game feels unparalleled and while a lot of the oversized bosses are not exactly fun to swing a sword at their feet, the spectacle is mostly interesting. The game is at it’s best when your working your way through any of the awesome legacy dungeon. There are a lot of walls you hit when level and stumbling into the wrong area (dragonbarrow for example). The game is probably too big and I would have been fine if they cut a 2 underground and 2 surface level areas. Ultimately the game is a ton of fun. World building, Leveling up, working on your build, finding the right weapon for the job are all amazing. There’s not a lot of talking or loading to impede the combat experience or immersion. these pros vastly outweigh the few cons. Once your done it’s a lot of fun to jump into co-op and help others beat up on hard bosses
It the best game ever Lore of game make you attract to the game Challenge make game special And the open world give the game more to explore Dont here this Negative Because they dont know how to play this master piece best miillon time than this **** buldr gate 3
This Game is HUGE!! There is SO much to do. So many weapons, a lot of upgrading and smithing, amazing dialogue, the bosses in this game are phenomenal, fighting is satisfying, awesome story, and overall, it being my first souls like game I have ever played, is a groundbreaking one.
I love the scale of the game and how the game ramps up in scale as you play the game. You start in an area that seems like a pretty big map already, then you start discovering more and more and add to that map that you originally thought was big until the area that you started in looks pretty much molecular compared to everywhere else that you’ve been. The areas are amazingly well crafted and are filled to the brim with things to do and items to collect, the story is interesting and easy to follow on the surface but becomes a satisfying tangled web as you start to dig deeper that only adds to the immersion of the game. Overall, the game is a masterpiece, but it isn’t my masterpiece. I’ll be the first to admit that I am bad at this game and actually have yet to finish it, I do love the story and everything that surrounds the game but I cannot for the life of me just sit down and complete the game. I am decently far into it and I know how the game ends but I am just unable to sit down and complete despite my love for the game.
This game is probably the most overrated game ever made. It’s not a masterpiece and it has too much problems to be considered great. Empty open world, bad loot system, repetitive dungeons and catacombs, reused bosses (only 9 are original and not reused vs 23 of Dark Souls) non existent narrative, no quest log, uneven difficulty progression, unfair boss fights… I can go on. 6 out of 10 is too much but I’m willing to admit the the first 10 hours or so were a lot of fun and I’m willing to recommend this game just for that and the fact that the game is very beautiful artistically.
Multiplayer - READ THIS BEFORE BUYING FOR CO-OP gameplay and more so, search Reddit posts about multiplayer, I really wish we had! Probably too late to return now for us. I don't generally review a lot of games unless they are really exceptional in one way or another. This one is so exceptionally bad for so called multiplayer that I literally signed up just to review it. If you search for Elden Ring and multiplayer - you will read the overwhelmingly bad reviews about broken game mechanics in places like Reddit about their so called multiplayer. It is so crippled as to be almost unplayable. If you are interested in a single player game, then Elden Ring *might* actually be worth playing - a lot of things seem otherwise well done and we've occasionally had fun for 5-10 minutes out of hours of gameplay. My friend and I purchased this game just to play together and hang out because it is specifically listed as a co-op game and has overall good ratings. We only play socially, don't have time to waste on single player. It is epically terrible. You have to, in game, summon your friend in to play, they also have to cast a spell to join you which works half or better of the time ... it is novel the first time, tedious and frustrating to get it to work, but novel. If that was it, cool, whatever, enjoy the rest of the evening. But, once your friend is in the game, you can't roam anywhere without hitting a wall that you can only pass as a single player - you have to kick them out, transit, re-invite them waste 5+ minutes if it works right for absolutely no reason. Some areas you can't invite them at all, or you're being attacked by a boss. Then lets say you get them in to play and you don't hit a wall blocking multiplayer passage, someone dies, you defeat a boss, someone's network glitches, they get dropped from your game and spawn halfway back across the map. You have to waste 10-15 minutes to virtually try and figure out a common place to spawn them back in, over and over again. It is like they just don't want people to actually enjoy their game and have fun playing with friends. Really, why even have a multiplayer if you can't do it halfway decently. Co-op progress is also only for the host, so if you also want to get a new item, sword, spell, save point, or otherwise move forward, after playing the exact same thing as your friend - you have to play back through the exact same thing in your world all over again, and deal with getting kicked and disconnected over and over yet again too. As if that isn't bad enough ...being a newer player right out of the gate who just wants to co-op and enjoy the game, you load into the world, you maybe get your friend in after 10 minutes of futzing around. About every 10 minutes a human player who is there to do nothing but go attack other human players randomly spawns in, they are probably 50+ levels above you! Typically, you hit them 4-5 times, and do maybe 5 percent damage - they hit you once and you die instantly. Your friend gets kicked out and back across the map, you respawn and it completely disrupts the game while adding nothing but frustration - this isn't difficulty - this is unwanted PvP disruption. You can't turn invasions off, you can't play multiplayer off-line, you can't just play with your friend. Sure, we defeated the invaders a couple of times, but they are almost always higher level players, disruptive! The game is already very hard from the start, you could be in the middle of fighting 3-4 tough enemies. Those enemies don't attack invaders, but the invaders will walk right up behind you while you are in an already difficult fight and one hit kill you from behind. There is a counter invasion, where you can *eventually* summon in a hunter to help you fight the human invader - you're probably dead before they actually summon in after a few minutes, and it still doesn't fix the terrible mechanic. If you want PvP have a flipping arena or turn the feature on via opt in. Some users argue that the only way to make the already challenging game challenging, is to keep the game disrupting invasions from human players - this is completely untrue and if I want a good co-op experience against the game, I shouldn't be forced to play with rando invaders disrupting the already terrible multiplayer mechanics. It seems like someone just likes harassing's other players and thinks they can somehow argue their desire to ruin other people's days as making good gameplay. (It should be an opt in ONLY feature if present at all, I'm sure the majority would opt out.) We unfortunately bought this a bit ago, knowing what I know now, we would have returned it immediately or skipped it altogether. Which is sad, because the game has promise - if multiplayer wasn't completely crippled. We still keep trying, hoping to have fun and just finding night after night of frustrating time wasting hoops and harassment preventing enjoyment of the actual gameplay.
Best game ever made. Best gameplay, art design,bosses, atmosphere,its just perfect
GOTY 2022 and one of the best games ever created. A unique game tha needs to be experienced by anyone who calls ****.
Elden Ring is an excellent game (GOTY 2022) and possibly the best soulslike ever created. What i really liked after 150 hours of playing and the platinum trophy is that this game wants and succeds on treating you like a clever person and not a dumb braindead gamer who only needs 2 buttons to play a game or watch 30 hours of cinematics or depend on QTEs in combat all the time. The game demands intelligence and imagination from you, from exploration to customization and from skill and technique to fast reflexes. I mean, Dark Souls 3 and Bloodborne already had these things but now they are even better. The ONLY 2 reasons that hold it back from true greatness imo (9/10 and not 10/10) are, first, the story is almost non-existent and second, the technical side in general, both in terms of graphics and music/sounds/ost, could be better. I mean, i played Hogwarts Legacy and then came back immediately to play again Elden Ring and it seemed to me like a game from 2015 or something. Nevertheless, a true must-buy for every soulslike lover or action rpg gamer in general.
While I think the game is fantastic in it's own area of gaming, It just doesn't compare to other games that are rated this highly. This game winning GOTY over God Of War Ragnorok was criminal, But then Dark Souls III losing to Overwatch was also criminal so I guess it balances itself out. While most of the game feels incredibly well designed and absolutely beautifully, some bosses and areas feel cheap and janky so this game is far from the 10/10 most people give it. Hope this helps
Absolutely incredible game. I played dark souls many years ago but never properly got into it or finished it, but my god this game is amazing. Beautiful world, great story, fun boss fights. Cannot wait for the expansion!
10/10 love the **** outta this game. So much gameplay and so many different combos and ways to play.
Possibly the best game ever made. A very strong gameplay loop and great story. There is a whole lot of brilliant side content in a huge and beautiful world. It is very difficult and filled with brilliant content. I have played many of fromsoft's previous masterpieces and can confidently say that it is the best. The few gripes that I a have are just that there is no boss rush mode or good duo boss. I have no doubt in my mind that the is issues will be fixed in the upcoming DLC. This game is as close as any game has ever gotten and it well deserved game of the year in 2022.
I am confident in saying that Elden Ring is one of the greatest souls of all time. I have played from the first soul, "Demon Souls," to "Sekiro," the last one. But Elden Ring had changed all points of view about soul games. The Open World, mixed with classic souls, is a huge success. As soon as you start playing, you feel the soul's atmosphere, but in a huge and fascinating open world. And you don't know where to go. Elden Ring is better than previous games in all things: new game mechanics, hardest boss battles, well-made design maps, new weapons and magic setups, epic music, fantastic art design, and multiple endings. I strongly recommend both newcomers and veteran players. Final score 10/10
W GAME 500+ hours and I'm still discovering new things, the replayability insane
Awesome Love it
Somewhat flawed in world design, levels look amazing but often lack in interconnection and atmosphere. The map feels too large and the best parts are often the legacy dungeons which feel like actual souls levels. The areas are beautiful to look at and you can basically go everywhere you see which is cool but it could’ve been considerably smaller so it could cut down on all those repeat bosses. Downgrade from older instalments feels like a minor upgrade from DS3 with slim quality of life improvements. Some bosses are great and fun or other are too easy and boring while others are unfair and poorly designed. This game is great but definitely has flaws and is no masterpiece Pros and some thoughts- -Build variety and amount of weapons -Spectacle and area settings (areas are often beautiful to look at and it has some good world building with how your in a world that’s been lost to a war) -Legacy dungeons (Leyndell, Volcano Manor, Stormviel) -Underground areas (Nokstella and Nokron) -Lore for certain bosses and the world is fascinating -Combat is rewarding and learning movesets can be enjoyable -Some boss OSTs are memorable (Fortisaxx and Godskin duo) those are some notable ones for me -Good overall quality of life improvements compared to past instalments but doesn’t add any new crazy gameplay mechanics -Very accessible with its open world allowing you to explore and gain levels from 150 repeat dungeon and catacomb bosses -2/4 of remembrance bosses are enjoyable and all are very unique and have great design and depth to their movesets and gameplay mechanics It succeeds at theses pros all at different levels but overall it was decently well rounded with design flaws and with its positives Also Fias quest is the best in the game it’s a better journey than Ranni’s and actually has some meaning and backstory to it. I Cons- -The enemy reskins and re fights (157 total bosses and only 9 are unique that you only fight once, they are Renala, Rykard, Radahn, Malenia, Fire Giant, Placidusaxx, Sir Gideon, Maliketh, & Radagon. Every other boss in the game you refight more than once. The game should’ve been cut in size because this is just completely unnecessary and can ruin how memorable and unique these boss fights are supposed to be. The fights are fun but there’s too much repetition. I know other games do this but maybe not to this extent. This ruins the value of the world and makes it feel meaningless and ruins immersion. Ruins the standard of the other games -Broken weapons (Bleed related in particular) - lots poorly designed bosses(Malenia, Fire Giant, elden beast, all 30 of the basic dragon refights, tree avatars, Godskin duo. There is more but these are the best examples) -Awful camera in boss fights it is the true enemy -Lore is too vague and reading item descriptions doesn’t pay off to tell a complete story. It tries to hard to be mysterious and it never has any reasons for anything. Vagueness is what we are used to with this series yet this one doesn’t succeed in it for the most part. -Open world is bland and exploring got boring and annoying it doesn’t add much and is a schlock to go through again on NG+. I don’t feel engaged exploring the world it takes no risks, has too many bonfires and checkpoints everywhere, there’s no interconnection and no reason to make a mental memory of everything when there’s no risk. It feels like DS3 level design but I guess slightly better. The world only exists to be a spectacle and doesn’t do anything else to interweave the map and immerse you. It’s hollow and only succeeds in legacy dungeons. I think having a dedicated map is a main reason for this feeling for me. I’d rather explore the unknown rather than have a map and a player marker. -Side quest are quite literally impossible to do without a guide it’s absurd, the map is just too big to actually complete it yourself and the dialogue is too vague to tell you to do anything. The community has normalized using guides and the wiki for everything. The proof is there: the 16 step ranni quest has a 25% completion rate. This is bad quest design - I swear every single boss arena is a circle with a different background. No environmental hazards no different strategies for unique arenas, nothing and that’s boring. Only one I can think of is malikeths arena with the ledges. -Delayed attacks on every boss. Lots of aoe and unpredictable speedy, long range attacks that catch you in a 8 hit combo that will often get you killed. I don’t want to spend 10 hours on a boss, it doesn’t prove anything to anyone. 2-4 hours is a good amount. Most are boring and unfun and don’t teach the player anything at all other than to get annoyed at the **** is all just roll, get 2 hits in for most bosses. It can feel unreactable at times and ruins the experience. This game chooses spectacle over meaningful mechanics in a fight, it looks cool but it doesn’t actually play well Overall it’s a great game but no masterpiece
This Is Actually An Interesting Game Of The Year To Make Sony Pony Fanboys Salty 10/10.
My favorite souls like game. Great replay ability you'll find yourself discovering secrets and fighting engaging bosses. I would recommend this to anyone who likes a challenge.
An absolute masterpiece. I didn't understand the hype around the soulbourne games. How could anyone find ridiculously hard games fun. I was sorely mistaken. Happy to say that this game rightfully deserved the 130+ hour I put into it in order to 100% complete it. A masterpiece.
Eldin Ring is a fantastic game. My only complaint is with it being open world you want to run around and explore, but when you come across enemies you can't do anything about you can't really explore that area.
One of the best, RPGs of all time. This game DOES NOT, hold your hand. It doesn't tell you where to go or really what to do. You are tarnished, and your goal? Become the Elden Lord. No path you take is wrong, decide you adventure you want, at the pace you decide. This game is difficult, Its a Souls game, but unlike other souls games, Elden Ring is much more forgiving and rewarding.
Elden Ring offers up a gorgeous open world that is enticing and exciting to explore, along with excellent combat variety, amazing bosses to fight, and intricate dungeons to tackle. It might feel a little familiar, but this could well be FromSoftware’s best game to date. TGG – 9 / 10 AUDIO 9/10 The music in Elden Ring is excellent, and each boss fight track gives the battle its own vibe. Ambient sounds help to make the open world feel more alive, and what voice acting there is in the game is very high quality. VISUALS 9/10 Elden Ring’s art direction is absolutely stunning, and the steep cliffs, golden trees, and misty lakes of the game’s open world are wonderful to behold. Unfortunately, some technical problems hold the game back, with particle effects like fire not loading into view until you’re extremely close to them. PLAYABILITY 9/10 Elden Ring takes the combat of Dark Souls and expands upon it in interesting and worthwhile ways. Stealth is a welcome addition, combat atop your steed Torrent feels epic, and the vast array of magic spells and weapon abilities mean there’s plenty of ways to take down your foes. DELIVERY 9/10 Elden Ring’s open world is a joy to explore, with something new to discover around every corner, and it offers a ton of verticality, as well as wide open areas. The more linear dungeons are really well made, but progression can be a little bit confusing at times. Loading times are far too long, as well.
One of the greatest games ever. Perfected the open world. Something unique hiding in every corner. No bloat. No filler. All killer. Tremendous game.
Elden Ring is the first Souls game I’ve ever liked. Tried DS1 ages ago and couldn’t get into it, but this game makes me want to go back and try all of them. An all time classic and deserving GOTY, the story is haunting, the gameplay is addicting and rewarding, and the environment is beautifully constructed with multiple characters that really grab and tug at the heartstrings. Phenomenal experience for this foul Tarnished.
My first Souls-like / Fromsoftware game and one of the best video game experience I've ever had. This game is fantastic. I've played 150 hours of it (up to NG+2) and never felt bored. It's challenging but rewarding. Beautiful and well paced. Can't wait for the DLC... My only regret is that I was playing it while I was waiting for Starfield launch and now I'm in a void... I'm considering buying Dark Souls 3 to forget Bethesda's crap, but I fear the difficulty gap. ^^'
Way better than starfield, that game was terrible. If you liked starfield play this instead.
this game is the closest we will get to a perfect open world souls game, from software really got out of their confort zone and still delivered a true gem, anything bellow an 9 for this game is just plain wrong.
For me an absolute Must play Not Inlay dir Soulsänger Fans. Style handling Performance
The most beautifully written and well crafted video game in the history of video games. Elden Ring proves to be a massively intimidating but intensely captivating experience with a focused yet ever expansive goal. The excellence of the world building provided by George R.R. Martin and the powerful writing of Hidetaka Miyazaki mesh extremely well into a very cohesive experience rivalling the most popular intellectual property the fantasy genre has to date. Its use of the visual and interactive medium to convey messages, evoke emotion, and to inspire awe reflect the work of true masters of the craft. The game plays as an evolution to From Softwares flagship series, Dark Souls, with an infusion of elements from their more recent breakout hit, Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice. It goes further to add its own unique characteristic’s providing the player with a large and varied toolset allowing for a wide choice of play-styles. It’s more subtle take on quests is impactful and requires actively engaging with games story in a way many games never come close to accomplishing. As you move through the ever-growing world, you begin to acquire the sense of just how vast the play-space is, and how small and inconsequential you feel in comparison to it. The stories multiple endings provide the ability for a second or third play through with a breath of fresh air, making great use of the games new game plus feature. Like all games, it doesn’t come without its flaws though. Its high difficulty being a major barrier to entry is one of the best examples, but stands as one that is important to the fundamental experience itself. Another would be its strange approach to cooperative play, being overly restrictive in the modern era of co-op games. Despite its potential flaws, Elden Ring stands as one of the very few titles worthy of the masterpiece rating.
I originally gave this game a negative review on Steam as I found that the lack of direction really hurt the games flow. I still hold that sentiment about Elden Ring. I don't expect the game to give me a guided tour or arrows on the hud to tell me where exactly where to go, but at times I was wandering into zones I clearly shouldn't be in, undergeared, not high enough level and still on like 4 flasks to top me up. Recently I picked this back up and followed a guide, yes I know what a scrub, but I thought that if I can get a rough guide on what weapons are where, and how I should reasonbly progress, I will then get along with this game. Sure enough, I fell in love. Now is this game perfect? No. Is it loyal to it's core audience? Absolutely. If Demon or Dark Souls are something you enjoyed or even love-hated for it's punish factor, you will adore this game. The amount of times I just took a minute to appreciate the glorious views is countless, yes even dreary Caelid. Once you get into the swing of things you really can't put the game down, it envelopes you with it's "push on" layout. So after clearly with a bit ****, I will replay this for sure, might make a meme build or even the Holiest build, Jesus Himself.
This game is one of the best rpg's i have ever played. Combat in this game is unique and very good
The GOTY. Simply, very fun, very challenging and with serious replayability. Without a doubt, one of the best games ever made. Looking foward to play the upcoming DLC. Carian Knights are the best.
Extremely hard, no story. But love it as there's no pop ups telling you to get your credit card out to buy something. Thanks for just making a game and not trying to get every penny I have
My favourite game of all time so far. Almost faultless!! The writing and story is unique & the gameplay is truly top notch. It's really going to take something truly special to knock this off my topspot. Well done fromsoft!!
Great game I ended the game 7 times
Rating; 9.7 This game is probably my favorite game of all time, and for good reason. I am a huge fan of Fromsoftware games, and have played every single one. This game lives up to all those previous games legacy, with a fantastic world to explore, marvelous combat, weapon as well as magic variety, and wicked bosses. Plus, all of the new mechanics that this game offers to the souls like genre are marvelously done, with the horse feeling pretty good, jumping adding a whole nother layer to combat as well as exploration, and the open world, which is just phenomenal. Now, this game isn’t perfect. To start off with there is numerous repeated boss fight’s, and the dungeons are really, in most instances, underwhelming. Overall, this is a game that I would always recommend to fans of the souls series, and I would even recommend anyone who haven’t play the Souls game before, to give this one a shot.
If u love souls like games this game will take over u.Final limit of the Software.
An absolute masterpiece and i am not a souls-like lover at all. The menus could have be done better and the ai and the balance the enemies is sometime a mess but from an artistic point of view is something unreachable
very very beautiful game Miyazaki he's a **** game has graphics never seen before.
Its hilarious to me that in all the 0s and 1s review this game is getting, they can only complain about the graphics being last gen and lack of cutscenes. Nothing screams GIT GUD more than seeing reviews like this. Im glad fromsoft have stuck to their guns and kept the handholding out of their games as is their tradition.
A software engineer, a hardware engineer, and their manager are driving to a meeting when the car they are in gets a flat tire. The software engineer says, "Let's run diagnostics to see if we can identify the issue." The hardware engineer suggests, "Let's swap out the tire and see if that fixes the problem." The manager chimes in, "How about we get out of the car, and then get back in. Maybe it will start working again!"
Superb game with amazing game-play and environments. First time playing I was blown away by the sheer number of things to do, weapons to collect, monsters to kill. And the most importantly, not game passes or micro-transactions.
GOAT Ring is the best FromSoft title and one of the best games I have ever played. Just a pure joy from gameplay and discovering the world and all of it's secrets. Simply beautiful and most importantly fun.
First off, I love the unforgiving combat system typical of souls-like games. It's a steep learning curve but rewarding when you finally get it down. The visuals are fantastic and at first I enjoyed exploring the open world. In the end, I found the world too open and too repetitive. I can see why some people may love it, but for me I just found it good and not great in the end.
Outstanding world building and lore. From software took everything they learned in all of their games to create an absolute sprawling masterpiece.
One of the best Open World Games of all time. It's an instant classic and an absolute pleasure to explore. From the technical side it's pretty underwhelming though... Performance is honestly terrible and the music isn't as good as DS3 or Bloodborne.
One of the most overrated games of all time. I was only 1.5 hours in before I decided to return it (for PC, Steam). Not exactly sure why there was so much hype. It's essentially like an early 2000's game with 2020's graphics. Narrative-wise... well there isn't really one. Combat-wise... well it's just the exact same, dated combat system from Dark Souls. Seriously. This game is overrated and did not deserve the hype it got. Baldur's Gate 3 IS as groundbreaking as everyone said this game was. Skip this one and pick up BG3.
I don‘t understand the bad reviews. Never experienced any frame drops on performance mode and the game looks beautiful. Apart from that the gameplay loop is probably the best I‘ve seen in recent years. Never have I been so addicted to a video game that I played it over 30 hours on the first 3 days and I still only scratched the surface. The game rewards you every time you venture off the
This is easily the worst From Soft game ever made. Played through this game entirely feeling as though it was the end of From Software making good games. Where do I even start, the game will either overpower you in certain areas, or be under-powered compared to the areas you may have previously traversed. The would feels lazily made with many rehash enemies and bosses from previous areas in this game and other From Soft games. The world is really more or less a "Souls-borne gallery" with no real heart, passion, or soul poured into the making of the game.
As of 2023, no more interesting game exists. Once you play this game, any other game will seem ridiculous and you won't be able to play it anymore.
Flawed Masterpiece. The world is the best looking in gaming history Really satisfying exploration and the way the dungeons are scattered really encourages exploration The main Bosses are just too great And all legacy dungeons are awesome On the other hand ..Reusing bosses a lot was really annoying and prevents me from calling this game the best in history .
Pros - Fluid combat, huge amount of choice. - Main Story bosses are well designed. - The Areas feel alive, I actually wanted to explore just to see new areas. Cons - The amount of reused bosses and assets in some of the the side dungeons / areas is fairly lazy. There are 2 Mohg's too, which really doesn't make since as he's a pinnacle boss. - Much of the story just doesn't make sense and feels low effort to make the player interpret much of what is going on. - The 'toughest boss' in the game's entire gimmick is waterfowl dance, the most unfun to react to ability in the game.
Good: -Story -Music -Atmosphere -Game play -Level design -World design -Customization -Boss fights -Enemy design -Enemy placement
After 156 hours I completed Elden Ring along with about 95% of the character side quests and all optional and main bosses. This game has one of the best worlds to explore I've ever seen in any game I have played; the visuals are spectacular and not one single inch feels wasted. One of my favorite things about this game is every weapon and spell looks cool but also feel viable to the point you can pretty much make any build you want. This game is the peak of From Software's design in Dark Souls in giving freedom to the players to play however they want. The fluid combat and the added ability to jump add to the great experience of fighting and exploring in this game. The games story like other soul's games is very obscure but also very rich if you are willing to look for it. The characters are mostly good, but I felt they could have done more with certain ones. Most main game bosses feel and look very cool and are fun to fight. Some people don't like the reuse of enemies throughout the game but overall, I think they did a good job of making them unique to the areas you fight them and the powers they use, making them feel like new enemies. Difficulty wise Elden Ring is probably the 2nd easiest soul's game with Dark Souls 2 being the easiest. With 85 deaths in Elden Ring total, 46 of which were due to Malenia leaving 39 from the rest of the game compared to, 38 deaths in Dark Souls 1, 55 deaths in Dark Souls 3, and 9 deaths in Dark souls 2 (DS2 just felt extremely easy). One problem I had was Malenia and her being able to use her waterfowl dance 5 times in the span of a 2 minutes using it every other attack, if I could change one thing, I would give that move a 60 second cool down after she uses it. Overall, Elden Ring has slight issues with difficulty balancing but they are so small that it doesn't change how amazing this game is.
Love this game, so much fun leveling new characters just to test weapons I can’t wait for the expansion.
A world where you get so lost in adventure, you forget how u found it. A world so unparalleled in size, yet scaled ro nearest reach, to furthest of horizons perfectly. A world so varied, yet so deliberate in layout; and every perspective guiding towards some point of view. A world, Elden Ring; is one of if not the finest in gaming: Art direction/Boss Enemy variety/Build variety/Layout/Scale/Variation, it has no rival; nothing close to an equal. a bold continuation/ defined evolution of Fromsoftware's games, and often total succession of their prior ventures.
100hours+ Once I open the game, I feel I’m the character. Try to fight every battle in elden ring. At the end, I become the king. Wish I can play it again
It was the best souls game l ever had Trust me If you don't give up, it will impress you
Elden Ring is an extraordinary and rewarding gaming experience that celebrates exploration and discovery. With no hand-holding or markers to guide the player, it offers a vast and immersive world filled with hidden corners and remarkable caves. Despite occasional challenges with cooperative play, the game's stunning visuals and seamless gameplay make it a triumph, solidifying its place among the greatest role-playing games ever created. FromSoftware has skillfully blended the mechanics of Dark Souls with refined exploration, resulting in a fresh perspective that sets Elden Ring apart in the oversaturated market of open-world games. It is a remarkable achievement that pushes the boundaries of the genre and leaves an indelible mark on its players. Elden Ring represents a significant milestone for its developers and stands as one of the most exceptional titles in recent years. It combines the brilliance and challenge of its predecessors with captivating innovations, offering a gaming experience that transcends mere entertainment. While some may lament the departure from familiar tropes, Elden Ring retains the best mechanics and delivers a wealth of new and captivating elements, establishing itself as a groundbreaking evolution in the genre. It is a testament to the beauty of progress and firmly establishes FromSoftware's magnum opus.
My favorite FromSoft game, and my favorite open world game. Be patient, and you will be rewarded.
just manus and ornstein and smough more difficult than the bosses of this game the game is great like i want to play that game 900 SAAT. definitely best game ever made, definitely best soulsborne game. Suitable for 900 SAAT
Goat THis game is the Goat. Great Story, comabt, hell i could play this game for years.
No balance. Some of the mechanics are simply clunky. Neither aesthetics, nor balance, fights, story and this huge empty world
Beautiful game, amazing music, fun bosses. Whats not to like from a game with such a history as hard but rewarding game play!
Amazing, Stunning and Exhilarating. Perfect difficulty and gives a true feeling of having earned something each and everytime you overcome a challenge.
Boring, repetitive combat and should be called Tedious the game. If you want fun look somewhere else.
Elden Ring is an expansive, jaw-droppingly beautiful game with what is probably the best open world in terms of it's scale, every location looks like its out of a piece of concept art for a fantasy world. So much love and effort was put into the world of this game and I loved every minute of dying over and over in attempts to find treasure in every corner of the map, just to be trapped and transported to a region with outlandish creatures far above my level. You never know what to expect in the world, what abominations await you around ever corner. Even better are the Shard Bearer boss battles each in their own region, theme and each with meticulously designed move sets to be just difficult enough to be near impossible at certain levels, but still doable. Exploration is key in this world as it can award you a plethora of unique weapons, magics and summons that can help aid you in these colossal fights with the demi-human giants. Gameplay honestly could do with a little tweaking, the lock on system is a little dodgy at times. It isn't bad enough to warrant any kind of negative score for though just a bit of criticism. The starting area is also a little difficult if you aren't familiar with the way the levelling system works. Some items can be scarce at the beginning, but with patience and time you will build up your arsenal slowly and progressively quicker as the game goes on. If you are willing to pour dozens of hours into the game you get a fantastic experience, but you have to understand what it is you're getting into, you will die - A LOT - but that gives you the experience you need to progress further into the game. Don't give up, keep trying or come back to that area at a later time with better gear and a new strategy. 10/10 one of the best games you can play if you love giant boss battles and beautiful open worlds.
I have always struggled and gave very quickly on soulslike games but Elden Ring changed everything for **** you are still one of those please try again and stick to it until the end it will be an amazing experience and you will become a fan.
This is one of the best games I've ever played. It's challenging, addictive, and fun. Exploring is rewarded and there's lots of hidden details including some of the side quests, which are one of the best parts of the game. The world feels so rich and full of life compared to most other open world games, it's refreshing. It may be challenging, but this game has the best boss fights I've ever played. It can be annoying to get stuck on a boss, but learning the attack pattern is part of the fun.
This game had it all. This is literally the dark souls version of breath of the wild. Bosses and all enemies are very well designed. Open world is a masterpiece and there is literally something to do everywhere. The variety of weapons, spells and items to use was very impressive and it kept the game addictive and replay-able as there was so many ways to beat and explore the game. Radahn is also the best boss in all of soulsborne and one of the best bosses of all time. Another amazing part of the game is Volcano manor- a masterpiece of a side dungeon that has many ways to reach the final boss- the final boss is also amazing as Rykrad is an incredibly fun and cinematic boss fight. The dungeon level designs are mostly perfect as they are not too linear and they give you many things to do in them. Overall a masterpiece ****.
My second Souls game and I didn't even know how much it would drag me into this hole souls franchise. The Game is probably a once in a century thing. Even most people agreed that it was good and only few "attention" people said something else. Before I just repeat what everyone said before me: +Music +Gameplay +World Design +Enemy Design ++Story +++Ranni ++++George R. R. Martin And even though there were some FPS problems sometimes 10/10 -Let Me Solo Her
The first time you overlook Liurnia is breathtaking. ER is possibly more beautiful than Witcher 3 and Horizon: Zero Dawn, and definitely on par with RDR2.
Beautiful World, best boss fights, good story, best build variety of any game. This is a Masterpiece, this is a true piece of art.
Contrary to what some players claim, it's definitely not a masterpiece. The user interface and menu navigation are anything but ergonomic, nothing is clearly explained, it is still buggy and poorly optimized more than a year after launch, graphics are mediocre at best, activating ray-tracing makes the frame rate so low that the game becomes unplayable. Nothing in this game makes it comparable to true masterpieces such as Red Dead Redemption 2 or Breath of the Wild. And most importantly: it's not fun at all.
Every time I play this game I go DAMN this game is good and I can't understand how a game could be this great. I love how the game doesn't care if you miss things, and this leads you to discover whole secret dungeons and feel like you're the only one that's been there. One thing is I don't like the attribute system where you need a certain level of something to use something because I spent an hour hammering away at a boss only to be rewarded with a spell that I needed 40 faith to use when I only had 13.
I really wanted to like this game and the world was interesting to **** first. Then it got a bit repetitive. However, about 70% into the game, I simply could not progress. The difficulty is simply too much to handle for me. I really tried everything I could, but after 70 hours I just got sick and tired of dying hundreds of times. I do not find this to be fun at all. if the difficulty was even 10% easier, that could have been enough for me to progress further.
Absolutely the best game I have to ever played in my life. There is no hand holding. You get an immersive open world experience. The battles are challenging but thrilling. I love the fact that skill
Fights with a bad camera, technical graphics are not pleasing to the heart.
Beutiful, hard as f game... The hate people bring here is pathetic, most of them didnt even own the game.
Finally a game that works how it should and has been properly produced and tested by the developer. Gaming at its finest. Dark Souls on steroids.
Elden Ring is the pinnacle of game design and a breath of fresh air. Bold words, I know but in an era of handholding, barren open worlds, micro transactions and stuffed HUD’s elden ring stands apart. The score and sound design are epic, the gameplay is tight, the art direction is the best in gaming and the boss battles are both numerous and challenging making it a game ****, a game that may steer game direction in the coming years.
This game sets the bar so high in almost every single aspect, that it has made me disappointed in one way or another of almost every single other game I've played since.
Great game in every aspect. Only negative is the recycling and some later part of the game can be a bit dull.
Not typically a fan of souls like but elden ring is Fantastic, a brilliant way to introduce someone to the souls like formula whilst it can be difficult, you can also take your time with it
The world is fun to explore, good replay value. Lots of great bosses,fantastic music,and good lore, and a dung eater.
Really annoying mechanics. I love a good challenge and loved Dark Souls but when a game resorts to **** and sneaky tricks to beat the player, that's when it loses me. It's hard but in a more frustrating and hollow way than in a fun and practical way. Not a horrible game by any means but if you don't have the endless hours to grind or pour in the time to get really good, I wouldn't bother to pick it up.
This game is incredible; the devs added an absurd amount of content, all of which is masterfully implemented into a visually, audibly, and narratively beautiful world, but they forgot one thing--they forgot to make it particularly fun.
Elden Ring is honestly a masterpiece ****. I was quite hesitant on the SoulsBorne series but after playing this game for the first time I was blown away. I honestly regret not trying it sooner. From Graphics to gameplay, this game is a play everyone should play once. I understand that the difficulty is a turn off for a lot of people but the feeling of beating a boss is one of the greatest feelings I've ever had. The lands between is such an amazing open world map, the fact that everything you can see everything in the distance is really there is baffling, a lot of games simply put a jpg in the background and call it a day but in Elden Ring you can go to anything you see. FromSoftware seriously out-did themselves with this and I cant recommend it enough. Please go play this game.
Another FromSoftware masterpiece. Need to be top of Microsoft's acquisition list.
It's great. It's the best game I've ever seen. The picture is exquisite, the movement is smooth, and the design is exquisite.
My favourite game ever made! A beautiful and deep open world with an interesting and engaging story and lore. Great and challenging bosses! A true masterpiece.
I'm jealous of people who didn't experience frame drops. On the series S the grass render is SO bad. Needs more side quest and NPC's... Honestly that is all the bad. Everything else is perfect to a T. Ranni is so cool! The other NPC's are all cool too. They definitely did a Dark Souls open world the right way. Plenty of stuff to keep you looking around, exploring. Sad the DLC took so long and is Multiplayer based. You'll wanna dive into the lore.
I have been playing video games for more than 20 years now, but never have I enjoyed anything so unique and grand. The horrible difficulty fades into the background and gives way to the amazing art design and the unbelievable sense of exploration unmatched by any game ever made. I took my sweet time and conquered the Lands Between in every square meter, undigging all its secrets and stepping into every cave I could find. I got hooked on the loss of direction forcing me to explore every nook and cranny. Only Breath of the Wild could give me that sense of freedom before. Never will I experience anything like this again, which makes me kinda sad, but the feeling after beating the final boss brought true tears of joy to my eyes.
I finally bought this game and why did I wait so long!? It might be the best game I've ever played. It is true magic, over and over again. It's my first souls game and at first I wasn't sure about it. But slowly I figured things out. I did a restart once a few hours in but then that was it. I have never been so consistently awed by a game. The world is fascinating and immense. The art is mind blowing and beautiful. It rewards patience, so go into it thinking it will test you. It will, but the rewards are well worth it. I love this game thank you to the devs, incredible!!
This game **** this is just a copy of Elder Scrolls series they could have at least be original with their game do not recommend buying this for you your son or any of your family including your grandma but your grandma will probably die if she sees this game
One in a lifetime gaming experience. This game already is one of the best in history and his legacy is only gonna get bigger. Not much to say that hasnt been said yet, deserved 10/10 score.
This game is literally up there with Zelda, BOTW and Witcher 3. And the biggest compliment I can give to this game is: I have beaten this game 3 times. PONS: • Great story (but not the best) • Addicting combat • HUGE open-world • Full of content • Amazing Boss-Design • Breathtaking visuals • So much replay value • Vast variety of weapons and builds CONS: • The bosses Post-Game feel a lot harder than usual (for example Malenia) This game absolutely deserved GOTY 2022
Incredible, life changing game, there is so much to this masterpiece! It is a must play and us so magical.
tasty but too much dirt
This is a **** masterpiece, the world is beautiful the gameplay is addicting like crack and the story is also hella good you just need to make some research and you'll understand everything.
Probably the best video game world you could get lost in. Kinda wish I could experience it for the first time again
Loved it took me a while to find the right build for me once i found it i started to have a bunch of fun
What can be said that hasn’t been said. One of the greatest games of the last decade. (Edit) 2 years later and 500+ hours this became my favorite game of all time. It’s hard to quantify just how monumental this game is. Even more so after the DLC came out.
Would rate it lower if I could. 0 storyline. Bosses are all the same. Yet another copy and paste game like the rest of fromsoft. Trash.
Best game of the year no doubt, packed with more content then most games and doesn’t even have dlc yet.
A worthy new title to follow up the sublime Dark Souls series. Fixed and improved upon almost every issue I had with Dark Souls III, and the Ash of War system is a worthy successor to the Weapon Art system. The open world is admirable and is up there with the greats of open world games.
Elden ring is a very good game to start in the souls saga since it has the difficulty of a souls and it is also open world, a very good game if you have not played any souls game postdata: the soundtrack is very good what a masterpiece, but I rate it with an 8 because if you are a casual gamer Elden ring could be quite difficult for you and that is somewhat frustrating at least for me
What a game, i mean like Fromsoftware this is a MASTERPIECE. The story, Gameplay, RPG elements are all amazing.
Amazing game is amazing, It's sad to see such upset people, I dont think there gamers. Anyways it's a really awesome experience everything should play it. It won Game of the year after all!
Simply amazing I have nothing else to say ... It has the best boss fights and soundtrack and also some of the best scenery that are in the souls game
Revolutionary in open world game design. Takes the dark souls formula and builds on it masterfully. The lore that can be found around the world really adds to the game as well. Despite the great game design in most of the legacy dungeons, for every lyendell capital there is also a caelid or a mountaintops of the giants. As a completionist, I found the mini dungeons extremely repetitive and not adding much in value as far as rewards. Also unfortunately the game suffers in balancing when you get to the late game.
First game in a long time where you get exactly what you payed for and exactly what was advertised, no micro transactions, no battle pass, just a massive playground where the only one limiting your enjoyment and progression is you. My advice, explore the world when you get stuck on a boss, go off the beaten path, strike first, strike hard, No mercy.
Poor level design with a lot of copy&paste Few good boss fights and that’s all the game has to offer
Amazing game. However, due to how long it is, repeated boss fights are annoying. The game is long enough they could have just omitted these. (And I'd recommend just skipping them when possible) This is the only thing stopping it from getting a 10/10 from me. It would have been nice if it had more true challenges late game, past Radahn (pre nerf) the game definitely goes straight into easy mode, until the final boss where it tips upwards, slightly. Subsequent playthroughs were also a little disappointing as Radahn's nerf really made him a joke. Glad I got to do the fight in its original form.
Before Elden Ring, Zelda Breath of the Wild was easily my favourite game. After 100 hours of this game, I'm not really even that bothered about the Tears of the Kingdom sequel though. Elden ring is fairly similar to Breath of the Wild but the combat feels way more realistic and evolved and there's much more to do. The only problem with it is that it's slightly spoilt all other games. It's hard going back to other adventures when you've experienced a game this good.
Elden ring is the perfection of the saga with the uptades i can finally play this game and have fun of exploring the lands betweens
I've been playing games for a while, but this is the epitome. Best game I've ever played in my life, toping games I had on my rank for 15+ years. Really incredible.
First off if you think Elden ring is “too hard” you’re not taking advantage of the games mechanics, there are plenty of ways to make the game easier if not too easy at times to be considered a souls game . First time playing I found it difficult until I figured out what areas to go to first and where to come back too. The areas in elden ring are set up perfectly to where you can progress without a serious challenge depending where you go next. If you have a problem with leveling up then you have yet to explore many areas because I found myself getting too strong for the main game . Lastly I hear a lot of complaints about the story being too hard to understand and I’m gonna tell you right now it’s only hard if you can’t put 2 and 2 together . You’re gonna need to google some words and maybe play the game a few times but you will understand the story as long as you can read and have an expanded vocabulary. Nearly every item description plays a role in telling you the story, you NEED to take your time and remember what npcs tell you . If you’re not able to do these things you will not understand anything and have a hard time for sure. And if you’re not willing to put in the work of unraveling this incredible story then don’t even bother writing a review about something you haven’t even fully experienced
I finished in 45 day. If you have a free time this is the best game you can purchase. Whenever I get bored, game always gives me new visuals, secrets, dungeons, interesting weapons and spells.Variety of enemies insane... If you choose right built like(rotten dragon incantation with faith) , game become too easy at somepoint. Choose wisely.
all time great "souls like" elden ring has a whopping 72 bosses and a insane amount of world to explore. Elden ring catches the players attention by throwing something new at them in every corner, want to go explore the crazy cool floating tree? oh look a castle on the side of the map for you to explore and get new weapons or items, elden ring is also rich in character customization and weapon selection, massive halberds, flaming swords, magic wands and enchantments you can cast upon them. Elden ring brings choice to its player aswell letting you choose which bosses you want to fight and it flows so smoothly there is no dull moments, serious recommend game of the year
What to say? A masterpiece. I really enjoy the start of the game, the rest is still so good but so much more difficult. I’m now almost at the end (finish ed the story line but still have to face the last HiSense zone).
Although artistically perfect, some things are missing that I can't explain. Definitely one of the best games of the year!
Loved it. Cant get enough..keep going back to it. I love the detail, hars to find lore, exlploration, and co oping woth friends. Im not a fan of pvp so im not sure about that other than fighting the (red guys)!
The first few hours is great, but after that it gets frustrating. Some of the mechanics are simply clunky. There isn't a pause menu in the game. To me it seems the developers have issues on the technical side and they settle down with it. "It's not a bug it's a feature". I don't see what is the point making a game, If you already know only 10% of the buyers will finish it. This game isn't hard, it is clunky, because the developers can't Scale difficulty and they label it as souls like. The world and the enemy design looks cool, but as an entertainment product it fails to entertain. It is like jerking off with a cheese grater.
I love the lore of Dark souls and Bloodborne and this is no exception, with each NPC dealing in his own way with the desperation of living the end of the world. It's a journey, and the sensation of achievement at the end has no price.
Simply amazing, superb, without a doubt Elden Ring is From Software's best game
Best open world discovery in a video game. Every time I play it I find a new area or boss, even after 100 percenting
My very first souls game and i loved it every single thing in this game just mixes well with me
Fantastic game, love everything about, the visuals, the soundtrack, the gameplay. More FROM please!
The best gaming experience I had in years. Incredible art style and gameplay.
Why is this game so much better then God of War? I notice how every negative review mentions it, and I think it deserved to beat it at the Game Awards. Sorry Kratos fanboys, you loose ;)
Fantastic game. One of the best i've played. Has everything you want, an amazing openworld, monsters to fight!
Elden Ring is one of the best games I played in my life along with titles like GTA RDR Fallout and Skyrim so it totally deserve a perfect score even if it’s not total perfect!
This game is skyrim for a new generation, it deserves all the praise it has gotten so far.
It's a shame God of War can't even compare to this game. What a shame, but oh well, we won Game of the Year!
This game is AMZING. One of the best games of all time. These people are insane who are lowing the review score. Screw them
Cons: No animation canceling making the game feel clunky as your not able to tell your character what to do as its stuck in a 2s animation you can’t get out of in the middle of a fight Roll animation and roll negation damaged are not synced as you will take hits within your roll animation constantly. Little support for PC controls PC performance bugs, such as game freezing up and not responding every time to click quit game Cutscenes are awkward as they are stuck behind cutting in and out of black screens and changing camera perspective Little explanation for the game and the mechanics, it didn’t tell me the imperative detail of progression being leveling up until I had played for almost 4 hours Insufficient explanation of core game design decisions and mechanics that the developers left to hope the players would just spend hours without this knowledge until they figured it out Lack of early game narrative gives your character a lack of purpose as your just running around a world you know nothing about and don’t care about to kill enemies you know nothing about and care nothing about It’s hard to call a game like this an “RPG” because RPGs usually have good immersion however the immersion is broken with this game once you get a loading screen and are teleported away every time you die, which happens a lot by design with this game Enemies always respawning also breaks immersion and makes you clearing an area feel unrewarding Overall this game is a **** fest where you spawn in with no purpose and are tasked with killing enemies that attack quicker than half your attacks, attack animation duration(something you can’t cancel). Who also hit you during your roll animation(not synced to negation bad game design) making the core draw of this game the combat a poor experience. Pros Good character creation Expansive world A lot of unique enemies Difficulty Customization of combat style Although this game has some pros they are greatly overshadowed by the long list of cons
Same graphics , same gameplay, full of bugs , **** story , it's an awful game , so overrated
Disgusting gameply Boring af Too big Doesnt deserve goty tbh Would definately not recommend
The worst 549 SEK (equivalent to ca. $53 or £43.4) ever spent. Save your money for some other game.
Easiest souls game with a lackluster story and ps4 graphics in 2022 actually so disappointing
this game is empty, not interesting and also not SO hard as people talk about it lol
Elden Ring is developed by From Software and published by Bandai Namco Games
Elden Ring was my first FromSoft game. I had heard about soulslike games before, but wasn't exactly sure what it was about. I had the impression the games were difficult and provided quite a lot of challenge. When I bought Elden Ring I was prepared to die, a lot, while learning the mechanics. However it wasn't only the build variety and the funny combat situations I found myself in that were the cream of the crop. It was the atmosphere, the main story, the NPCs stories, the bosse's unique personalities and traits, the landscapes that stretched as far as the eye could see, the long and solitary rides with Torrent to places unknown (and way above my level). Then, there were the caves, catacombs, tunnels, graves and all the underground areas that made for an intense sense of exploration, danger and reward. It progressively felt that the game was released with way too much, so much was the content to get into. The map was enormous, overwhelming, and I so much enjoyed it that I didn't want it to end. In terms of replayability I prefered to go through smaller and contained legacy dungeons than going through the immense open areas and all the dungeons once more. I ended up repeating some in subsequent playthroughs. All main bosses were memorable to me. Malenia was the most challenging boss I ever fought. After I beat her I went into co-op and helped others beating her too. It was such good fun finding a nice group and savouring our victory together! To wrap things up, Elden Ring was not only the game of the year to me, but also one of the best games - if not the best game - I ever played. It was the game I needed to play, and it came exactly at the right time.
Good game for the dark souls genre. But ultimately a gimmick riddled experience where they tie the players hands in ridiculous way, thinking that’s what fun is. Does not deserve game of the year for sure. The best part of the game is the lore/story, and after 400 hours later (6play throughs) I still had to find a YouTube video explains 50% of the lore.
Garbage trash only **** play this peice of this What a garbage of the year damn lol
While I don't necessarily think this is FromSoftware's best game to date, this is easily the game I would recommend to play first for anyone wondering where to start in the series. It has immense challenge for players who are up for it; Malenia is easily the hardest boss in any Soulsborne game ever. But for newer players, the game provides many ways to make their playing experience more manageable. So for anyone looking to get into FromSoft games, this is the best place to start imo. This game absolutely masters the art of the open world game like few have done before it. The only other open world games I've played that live up to the open world design of Elden Ring are Skyrim and Breath of the Wild. This was by far the most surprising thing about this game to me. FromSoft had always been known for their intricate 3D Metroidvania style games, so a fully realized and incredibly detailed open world game isn't what I was expecting from them. But it just works so well here. Also, their more narrow, non-linear, metroidvania style level design is still abundantly present in the NUMEROUS castles found throughout the map. Bosses are good. Best storyline that FromSoft has delivered so far. Still very much leaning into that alternative form of storytelling where you need to think about the context of why certain enemies are where they are, and you need to look through item descriptions to understand the story.
Overall the game was dammmm perfect . the type of game which i needed for years. though it lacks a bit in graphic a little bit more and its gonna break the world
I don’t like the general warts in it. But Alexander the Great negs in my booty hole
I don’t like soul style. Because really hard and a lot of stress. But im buyed dl version.
If you rush you can make it the hardest Souls game you've ever played. If you take it a bit slower, it will be similar in difficulty to the old games. If you take it very slow and out-level content it also fits the bit more casual player, although don't think it will be easy. The open world and "questing system" are the new benchmark for the entire genre. For me it's one of the best games I've ever played.
The best game of the year, mechanics, lore, world, enviroment, boss fights, weapons, magic, etc. I think the OW not the best for this genre but i enjoyed it for 3 month. Waiting for the DLCs.
This is a great game from the souls saga, together with Shekiro and Bloodborn it seems to me to be the best of the studio.
a great addition to the soulsborne menagerie of games, its difficult and beautiful, punishing and stunning, the amount of cool weapons and unique trinkets you can find is amazing, and even though i thoroughly raged at Starscourged i think the game is amazing
Nah it just stupid i played it like 1 and its worst don't buy this game i not good.
Finished it on all consoles now. I cant remember how often I finished this game already. I have already over 2 thousand hours in it. It is teh best game ever. Easiest Goty ever.
The best Souls, the art, the music, the difficulty is what I ask from this kind of games and they knew how to do it, several bosses, several hours, open world, a lot to do, a lot to see.
To it's cool just cool into the mouth NICE. No regrets, no more problems, no more panic for the industry
Looks and plays like a ps3 game, no story, poor graphics, gameplay loop, characters etc are all **** imo
One of the Greatest Videogames ever made. Definitely top 10. It does everything right. It’s so fun to explore and you can do it with a friend. Incredible.
Amazing game, I only have a single complaint, the optimization for PC is far from being good. Other than that I would really recommend that you finish this game without cheesing any bosses. I cheesed every boss I could on my first playthrough and deeply regretted it.
Masterpiece. 120 hours spent without getting bored of it. This game is the perfection to the souls formula. I would have liked if they wanted to invest a bit more in the narrative of thoe game, but we know they are FromSoftware. A game to be remembered forever.
Game of the Year! Not a souls like fan but this game took me in, had its way with me and spat me out and I kept coming back for more. 10/10
It's literally just a walking simulator except you might have a dagger sometimes.
Elden Ring is everything I was hoping for and more. The large epic open world is carefully crafted to have secrets around every corner and is filled with a wide assortment of interesting enemies and landmarks to explore. With its tight controls and intense boss fights this game is packed with amazing action. Elden Ring however still manages to craft a compelling narrative with deep lore and interesting characters. This is easily going to win game of the year!
Best game this year It’s not for everyone but arguably is the most content complete game out on the market which is a rarity these days,
For disclaimer: I made 100% of the three games in the Souls franchise. When I saw the trailer for Elden Ring, it was like I was witnessing Miyazaki's new challenge to the gaming industry. Since Demons Souls (2009) and Dark Souls (2011) went down in history as innovative and challenging games, the first thing to think about would be: "How will Elden Ring innovate?"... The answer came through the gameplay. I never imagined that From Software would be able to create something so epic, mixing an amazing OST (made by Yuka Kitamura), a magical setting and such fantastic mechanics. Elden Ring gives me the same feeling as Skyrim, a feeling of a vast world to explore, with different possibilities, for me, these two games are like brothers, things that only appear from decade to decade in the gaming world. The bosses never disappoint, no matter if it's a dungeon boss, or a main boss, their theme songs are amazing, and you really feel that the moment is a certain tension. The dubbing of the game is to be praised, all the voice actors managed to highlight the presence of their characters well, and this is something that I see little commented on. There are different builds, for all tastes, for all the bosses you want, and this goes back to what I said before, Skyrim and Elden Ring are brothers, both games give you immense possibilities for gameplay, magic, archery, one hand, two hands, punch. You'll never run out of ideas for an NG+. In short: Elden Ring is the kind of game you only see every decade, and it's been a real pleasure to write about this masterpiece by Miyazaki.
the best game of 2022, really, over GOW Ragnarok, is a monster of open worlds, hours and hours of gameplay
Bland mostly empty open world, only thing to do is fight randomly generated looking deformed enemies that lack creativity, basically they're deformed and ugly looking, only cool looking enemy is the last boss called the elden beast because he isn't a cliche lame deformed ugly monster like every other enemy. The world is depressing and the game just puts you in a bad mood, story is non existent aside from some convoluted item descriptions and they make no sense anyways, everything is vague and dumb. Combat is the only thing to do and it **** too, just hit, block, dodge repeat, it is slow and boring, there are some weapons that do a special type of attack like laser beam and such but they even managed to make those special weapon attacks slow and boring. The game is just bad, most overrated game I've ever seen. Avoid it and save your money.
I was hoping for something to completely reinvent gameplay and story based off of the hype but what I got was just yet another game with very similar esthetics, mechanics, and ambiguity with certain story elements and characters. It's a decent game to some I'm sure but after so many similar titles, I've had all the fun I personally think I can with such subtle growth and change. If something very fresh and new is what you're looking for then I'd definitely recommend looking elsewhere.
a beautiful and Challenging Game. ask for help in Multiplayer to continue your adventure, enjoy or suffer with your friends. Recommended for Dedicated Players.
Elden Ring starts out slowly and painfully (especially for newcomers to the Souls games). But stick it out and you will be rewarded with a game that is incredibly satisfying to progress in, unlike most other games today. The world design is also just incredible - the further in the game you come, the more amazing world design becomes. It is an incredible game that stands out above everything else made in many years. I've played the game on PC, Xbox Series X and PS5, and while not perfect on any platform, it is decent and is a must-play for anyone.
True masterpiece. Must play for enthusiast of From Software games. It is not easily approachable, but so are other From Software games. You need to spend some time to drown into the Elden Ring world. Map is overwhelming with number of locations and secrets. Boss fights are spectacular. Glued me to the console for long time.
One of the best games this generation and a must play. It feels good to die ++.
One of the Greatest video games I have ever played. Truly beautiful and immersive world with some of the best variety I have ever seen.
I loved this game. The art, difficulty, everything. Praise the sun you lowly dung eaters.
Horrible designed game. Controls are outdated and you can't escape reality in this game. There is no story and no direction here
Fromsoft continues making the best games of all time. I don't know how they do it.
Amazing game! This is my first soul's like game and it slaps. Challenging yet fun, customization is great alot of different builds and bosses, its open world and plenty of quests. It kind of reminds me of dragons dogma in a way, Good job fromsoftware.
Probably goty material, Eldin Ring was my introduction to Fromsoft games and damn it had me hooked the whole time, the environment and gameplay are unbeatable and there's not a think to complain about.
loved every moment of this game, all of the weapons are satisfying to use. the bosses are really fun to fight, especially godfrey.
Perfect, everything thing they could've done right, they overacheived at. The graphics are beautiful enough that I legit stop to just look around. The music is amazing whether in intense combat or exploring the world. The characters and worldbuilding is A+ too, I could go on for ages. The gameplay is amazing too, build variety and the absolutely wild amount of weapons and spells means I've been able to replay the game 3 times already and not be bored once. This is more than game of the year, it should be game of the decade.
It's really good. First souls like entry for me. With guides it's enjoyable
no words needed This game is the best game in the world. 2022 GOTY Elden Ring
Must play game! World rendering, Weapon clipping and hitbox issues. However a majority of the bosses are fresh and fun and great. Some bosses are just lazy but other Dark Souls games have had this issue. But this doesnt excuse them fromy
Not sure how this game has so many great reviews. Lots of rough edges with just simple things (like game menus). There is a story unfolding but the narrative is not nearly as strong as other RPGs.
the best game I've played in my life, you can see that the world was made with kindness and love, it's a game that everybody should play at least one day
the game is big garbage, the world is empty, graphics like from 2013 2014, overrated game
Same Combat mechanics for 13 years already (2009) just added with a Open World more like Open Field...
Overhyped Darksouls Game. Just another Darksouls with open world and boring story.
Elden Ring takes the FromSoft formula and cranks it to 11. Combining the level design and sorry telling they perfected years ago and somehow integrating it into an open world is pure alchemy and I love it. I've always seen it as a labor of love to struggle and push to complete their other titles but this one hits different, I've completed it 5x and it's the only title that of theirs that I 100%, every weapon, armor and spell!
It’s okay never been fan of this style of games but it will find its hardcore fans gameplay is slow and unimpressive
Looks pretty, but the very poor design is just lazy. Making Bosses massively, vastly overpowered and giving players a feather duster weapon to wave at a Boss travelling at you like an atomic bomb is terrible unbalanced rubbish. Fanboys and propellor heads with nothing better to do probably like this kind of junk, everyone else will just demand a refund for a completely unplayable game.
In one word,I want to say unique masterpiece...............................
There's a huge amount of Bosses that look amazing and creepy but the Gameplay & Inconsistency of the bosses gets a bit annoying overtime.
Phenomenal game, every boss was a rush. The combat is fluid and feels rewarding for specking into, magic is very powerful but doesn’t feel cheap so excited for dlc!
exceptional game, exceptional future a game that deserves to be tested and enjoyed. The atmosphere, the music, the gameplay, the bosses, the open world... everything is perfect and with an appreciable difficulty that will not leave anyone indifferent
It's a very intriguing game and very difficult, if you want to make the game easier in any way then your only option for the casual and hardcore gamer is to RUNE FARM and level up your character. Doing this allowed me to get better and stronger and able to defeat and beat the game. It still is a challenge but being at a high level makes things easier, YES even in Elden Ring it makes it Easier!
The best Dark Souls style game. From Soft absolutely annihlates every single open world game every made(besides outerwilds and botw). Instead of cluttering you ADHD ridden brain will waypoints and objecitve markers found by climbing a ubisoft tower, elden ring actively hides its content in obscure places that prompt you to actually explore the map. The map itself is iconic and memorable. Most regions in the map are easily recognizable and enjoyable to explore. The combat is as refined as single player combat can become. Elden ring is almost like a competitive single player game in terms of how it makes you feel while playing. My only complaint is that the game is so long, I got burnt out around 50 hours in, and I beat it after about 80 hours.
It has been over 7 years since I have been able to actually sit down with a game and forget real life for the moment I am playing. This game did that for me. First time playing it I played for 13 hours before I noticed rays of light coming from the sunrise outside my home - this was on a Tuesday night. Went to uni feeling like I was living in a fever dream, planning what my next move in the game would be. I was as hooked as one can be. Absolutely amazing game design and attention to detail. My first soulslike game, but a very good place to start. Objectively game of the year. Only downside is the occasional frame drops - which, after some research, seems like a relatively usual issue with Fromsoftware games.
Evolution of a Souls series. All components are greater and feeling much more organic then before. Difficulty level is raising step by step so u will evade this Daemons Souls feeling. Graphics and animation are nice, as well, as music and sound. Great work, master Miyazaki, thank u! I am Malenia, Blade of Miquella!
Very average game incredibly overrated. First hours fighting and exploring was fun but it then becomes really repetitive and boring so I had to stop playing. There are much better RPGs. I rate it a 6/10.
I didn't play a game that takes all my time and all my thinking After Witcher 3 And I'm not a fan of souls games. But this made me play it and finish it, it's a game of history.
One of the best Games i have ever played. Great mechanices, huge beautiful openworld, good Story with much details. Very hard and complex, but funny playstile with a lot of different weapons to Play. A must play title!
Open World Dark Souls what's not to love? Such an amazing game holy crap. It's GOTY
I've put many hours into this game, and I can finally say - I am no longer maidenless. Would recommend.
Fantastic game. The fake reviews on this are really sad. It's very shameful
Lord of the Rings wishes it was as epic as Elden Ring. Such a fantastic game.
A great and amazing game. Truly game of the year material. Still playing to today.
I love this game, it's really fun. Alot of build variety, tons of content, and alot of fan support.
Granphic is terible in 2022 very bad story is understinable no points where to go
The game is not perfect, but offers a huge and nice journey providing a good user experience, well developed lands, boss fights, OSTs, asthetics and also a rich lore, for me it's 10+.
Elden Ring is the absolute perfection of the souls formula brought to an open world. The strange lands between are filled with creative and astonishing areas and amazing bossen that will offer a great challenge.
Amazing game, just the wonder of what you will run into next and the world design. This game is a phenomenon.
Best videogame in years, I honestly don't understand the negative reviews except for performance issues.
This game can prove that you can definitely have too much **** thing. To say the map is big is a massive understatement. The verticality of the game world on top of the area size is absolute overkill. I haven't even reached the Capital yet and I feel. Burnt. Out. I'm so mixed on it. I love the world design but it does feel somewhat endless and a bit hollow? I do feel like tye enemies have more predictable attack patterns but the variety is there until you start to notice a somewhat shameless reuse of assets. This game has 165 Bosses! I think dark souls 2 only had 40 or so? I wish I could appreciate this game more and I respect the effort put into it. But somehow. Its too much for me personally. Which is weird. Maybe they should change the multiplayer mechanics so that you can interact with players in real time with no summon signs. Instead of summons it could end up being alot more organic. I'm sure covenants could still be implemented in some form or fashion. I just think if you're going to have such a large open world. You may as well make it more social. It would feel alot less empty I suppose as a result.
boring and overrated, the genre urgently needs fresh air and its combat system already looks outdated for today's times, a shame I was expecting something more ambitious.
I didn't like the Dark Souls series. But this game awakened a sense of adventure that I had long forgotten.
This game is just amazing!! The most impressive game in the souls like games!
Best game ever played thanks a lot Fromsoftware . Keep up you are on the right way
How the hell you made this game. It's pure art. Please play the game and then judge it. Just if you play u get the genius behind. Highly recommend it.
I have never played a FROMSOFTWARE game before and I usually don't like hard games but I now have 70 hours in the game and I am still only 80% through the game. There are so many new areas to explore and over 200 bosses. All in all I love this game.
Quite simply one of the best games of all time. Ive been gaming for 30 years and it is an incredible game. Think dark souls series but in an open world with a better storyline and plot. Ive seen some of the reviews on here and believe these are gamers whom havent played souls games prior to playing elden ring.
This game is a breathe of fresh air when it comes to the open world genre. It’s quality scenery shows up through out the entire game as a entire piece of art you get to participate in. Not only that the gameplay is phenomenal in its weapon choices and styles. The games can be difficult at times but using many of the games mechanics can help you get through hard areas. You can play the game in many different ways to make it fun. Overall in my 100+ hours I can say for a fact I enjoyed this game and it was worth playing.
The game was my first ever 'souls-like' so take my review carely. I fall in love with this game, the story, the carachters, the gameplay, everything is put in the exact position you would wish. The score in not 10 out of 10 because a lot of boss/mini-boss are pretty much the same in all the game, but this in understable because the map is very big so i understand why is like that. Overall is a masterpiece for everyone
By far the worst souls game ever made, the open world is extremely boring and full of copy+paste content. There is no fun way to traverse the open world. Boss fights are low quality and again a lot of them are copy+paste, I am talking about big story bosses that get shamelessly reused! It shows that FromSoftware didn't have enough time to develop this game properly. The boring empty open world is filled with wannabe pokemon summons called spirit ashe summons, you like collecting pokemons in your souls games? I don't. There is no meaningful reward, the game is too big for its own good, next time provide less quantity and more QUALITY, like previous souls games.
Fromsoftware did an amazing job with the unique open world that is elden ring. It dungeons may have been kinda copy and paste but still fun. The characters were interesting that follows up well with the fantastic story. The only problem i have with elden ring is that i feel that it isnt a new ip. Yes it may be in a new universe and everything but just like the dungeons everything feels copy and paste to dark souls. Bonfires? Naw grace sites. Stone/crystals? Naw fingers. You see what im saying. But overall elden ring is still a fantasic game i would recommend to anyone that wants a challenging game to play.
My life saved by this game. Best project by far. I love it so much. I.. I.. don't have any words to explain how i like this game. You need to be a dog to not try this piece of haven by youre self
Loads of content, great art direction, good graphics, good story, great gameplay and great boss fights. This was my first from software game and i can safely say that i will be playing the others after this.
ss23 says it perfectly (With Elden Ring, Fromsoft proves it has finally lost sight of what makes their games fair and rewarding and has caved in completely to artificial difficulty. Fights in this game are either trivial or littered with poorly thought out fast attacks and combos, with dramatic AOE effects in bossrooms to cover up the horrible design choices. The gameplay has barely changed since DS3 and does not equip the player with the appropriate toolset to handle its range of enemies. Even worse, they have somehow regressed in quality, with slower rolls, less i frames, input buffering, input delay, inputs disappearing. The damage done in the last third of the game is so bizarre that I cannot even begin to comprehend the thought process. It feels like From really wanted to make an open world game, designed a huge and interconnecting map, and everything else just played second fiddle: littering the landscape with uncreative, sparse and repeated dungeons and encounters, scrapping together unused boss and enemy designs from previous games and slapping it together without thorough playtesting or thoughtful user-oriented design. In summary, after several hundred hours of From games, this is the game that has now tarnished my image of From as a company that holds their games to high standards and respects the player.) i cant say it better.
One of the worst open world games I've played. The graphics are dated and uninspired. Constant FPS issues even on console. The publishers boasted that they consulted George R.R. Martin for the story. There is no story. This game is a soul-less mess where players will constantly have to look up guides just to find out how to finish "quests". Game difficulty is artificially too difficult in some parts with stupid gimmicks. Boss fights are boring and repetitive. The UI is horrible and many of the stats (for a stat based game) are not shown in game. This is another game where the reviewers and various streamers are paid shills. I would have more fun poking my dogs petrified poop for 12 hours with a stick on a 102 degree day then continuing to play this garbage game.
The game is good, but it fails with certain bosses. Either they're repetitive or unbalanced (AOE spamming fest). But for a Skyrim sized open world soulslike, it's definitely worth a try.
It's an okay game. Dare I say, even good. But it's not the second coming of christ that a lot of people are making it out to be. I just played Sekiro, and damn, that game is incredible. It's challenging, with a great story, and visceral combat. Which is everything this game isn't, so going from that to this was just jarring. Combat in this game consists of rolling around like runaway tire while bosses spam attacks, and then occasionally getting a smack or two in. The fact that defense still consists of the same crap dark souls had 10 years ago is lame. All an agility character can do is roll around like a moron. Why didn't they at least try and put sekiro's parry in? Why isn't there a smaller step dodge that's actually useful? All you can do is roll 5 times in a row, then get one hit in. The story is, well, vague. Meh. That's all I have to say. Coming from Sekiro's story to this was disappointing. In past souls type games by Fromsoft, you'd adventure a while, and encounter a boss, and get stuck on it a long time then finally have that "hell yeah" moment when you beat it. Just coming from Sekiro, each boss was exhilarating. Overcoming boss enemies in this game **** ass. Why? The density. Everywhere you throw a stone there's a goddamn boss. It's so tedious. There's no pacing, it's all just boss enemies everywhere all over the world that you'll die to 5+ times, and then actual turbo bosses that you'll die on 30+ times in the dungeon areas. There's another issue with combat. In the open world, fighting on the horse is optimal nearly all the time. Like 99% of the time. In a game where death is so punishing, it would be stupid to not do the most optimal thing. It's also optimal to just run past and completely ignore the existence of a lot of enemies. The reward for killing them just isn't worth the time. Who the hell designs a game where you're just supposed to bypass things people put weeks of work into designing? The open world is good I guess, if a bit monochromatic, with a few exception areas that are incredible to behold. Some areas are really fun to explore. Some are awful and incredibly aggravating. Fast travel is a thing. A big thing. There are bonfires every 10 feet. And you'll be fast traveling between them all the time because of the tedium factor involved. I really dislike fast travel like this but whatever. Overall I'd just call this game amazing, annoying, tedious, and fun, all at the same time. It's definitely not a 10/10. It's dark souls with a bigger (and less good, in my opinion) world. It'll give you a good 150, 200 hours of playtime. I really wish they at least tried to innovate on the crappy and dated dark souls combat, instead of making us roll more than a stoner in a joint factory.
Just a poor excuse ****. Tired of games focusing on graphics only and people highly praising gaming companies for it when the story and controls are lack luster.
I won’t go into spoilers but this game is great, it isn’t for everyone but that’s okay, I believe it is perfect for the type of people that would play it
Overall a very fun game and a must play if you are a souls fan. Although there are some issues that are very present the game is still a blast and it's easy to sink hours into.
One piece is your uncle and this game is a piece of **** because its **** did you create the game with a phone or what? 10/0 relly bad game
That was my first entry in the "Souls" genre, and not the least I think. In my opinion, yes this is a diffcult game but it is manageable thanks to the rewarding exploration and the level up possibilities of your character. Games like Cuphead are way more difficult since you cannot power up to such an extent. I found the artistic direction is effective and coherent, musics subtle but adapted to the action and with powerful moments. Yes, jumps are unprecise, the story is somewhat vague but this game was really remarkable and somewhat unique to me, and there is clearly a before and after Elden Ring.
It's a sad state of affairs if this is what apparently passes for a masterpiece. It's just a sandbox game where you wander aimlessly around. If you are not watching the mandatory 100 YouTube videos that let you make sense of this mess ****, then you have very little chance to complete any quest at all. And that also goes for the story, which by the way is the dumbest **** I have ever heard. A story where you would have to collect tax from Marika would make more sense than this mess. The bar is now so low, that an OK game at best is hailed as a masterpiece. Tragic.
Best soulsborne game before dark souls **** you like souls-like games you should DEFINITELY try it.From Software did it.I don't think there is a chance for this game to be bad :)
I'm a 41-year-old married life-long gamer with limited gaming time. Still, I play all sorts of games, have several subscription services - always looking for that next masterpiece ****. I rarely come across masterpieces nowadays and I've completed very few action or RPG games the last decade. And then came Elden Ring. Elden Ring is a masterpiece. I just finished putting just over 200 hours into my first playthrough, during which I searched every nook and cranny, tried to fight every enemy and boss, tried to find every item, tried to finish every quest, and accomplished most of that. A masterpiece. Beautiful. It's a modern and mature Zelda, a new gen and darker Skyrim with greater difficulty and less time-consuming and useless systems. It's grand. It's art. And I recommend it to every gamer. If you can get over the difficulty, you will be rewarded. And I never liked Souls-type games one bit before ER, but I see dopeness and beauty even in death in Elden Ring - how cool the enemy looks as he stalks over your body, the environment, the graphics and grandeur of it all. A masterpiece. Bravo, FromSoftware.
This game is mediocre in every way. Biggest difference between other souls games is the huge size of the map. That means they had to put a lot of filler in to the map to accommodate for a full open world. This game has more in common than latest assassin's creed games than to souls/bourne games. What a disappointment...
This game has game progression bugs that will make you unable to continue the game. Bandai Namco refuses to fix it. Steam post dated may 13, 2022 ****/app/1245620/discussions/0/4417479689917543303/ Here's a post on steam from april 25, 2022 ****/app/1245620/discussions/0/3279192886601937642/ Reddit post on March, 2022 with the latest comment saying it happened a month ago. ****/r/Eldenring/comments/tkkrbp/malekith_gamebreaking_progression_bug_no_cutscene/ Twitter user claiming same bug on march 22, 2022 ****/kumikats/status/1506470329275027459 Twitter user claiming same happened to them. It follows the pattern said by multiple people online of and even mentions the detail some users notice of the bug occuring after dying at the same time as Malekith.
It sure is a great game, and anyone hating the game for it's difficulty has played too many ubisoft games. The issue is this is an open world dark souls game. Yes the visuals look better and you have a horse! But there's is no difference from ds3. After playing dark souls I thought elden ring would be different but the whole gameplay system, sounds, controls, movement and everything is reused from dark souls 3, and I'm burnt out on that. It's the reason they made this huge game so quickly. Still though, I'm 60 hours in and I'd recommend it. It's the same old dark souls that we all love, but I would only wish for some more innovation.
Amazing game, one of my favorites has the best balance of all of FROM's game
Bad **** doesen't look like game,which cant run in stable 60fps on xsx
GOTY. This game is the best piece of art that has ever existed, very complete and beautiful, only experienced players of high standards will understand that this game has everything that is required to be the best. Those who do not think so, are probably inexperienced and get frustrated very easily with games of this type and it is understandable, the challenge is not for everyone. Those who consider it a bad game do so because they themselves play easy games.
Is a newcomer to the souls franchise, I can safely say that Elden Ring is the perfect balance between difficulty and fun. The combat feels fluid, satisfying, and fair. Never was there a point during my 100 hours in the game so far where I had felt completely defeated; I was always improving learning the moves of bosses and standard enemies alike. A challenge was not the only thing Elden Ring brings to the table, it also features a vast open world that is constantly rewarding the player for exploring. There are an absurd amount of weapons, talismans, sorceries, and incantations to be found; and just as many unique variants of said gear that feel different. I played Elden Ring on my Xbox One S and the graphics absolutely still hold up a generation behind. In my entire Elden Ring experience the game only stuttered a few times when certain open world weather effects were active. I imagine that this wouldn’t be a problem on current Gen, and even so it wasn’t inconvenient enough to take away from what I’d consider to be a perfect game.
I'm a big dark souls fan. Completed each multiple times. Elden ring is an amazing game, it has the most refined mechanics, and the most variety in gear and spells. However the map is terrible. The legacy areas are incredibly short, then the rest of the game is large empty fields with copy paste dungeons + boss fights. It feels like I've finished the game 5 times in a row and I've lost any interest in ever replaying it. If I was to ever replay this game, I would likely just skip all optional stuff unless I need it for my build, which means skipping 90% of the content.
Great visuals, large world, extremely unintuitive gameplay. Combat? Ridiculously off balance area of effects and hitboxes that dont match visuals, laggy responsiveness, AI counters everything while you get to slash at an ankle here and there ad naseum, one slight screw up and your dead. Combat is a complete turn off, totally regret this purchase.
if we ignore multiplayer this game is a complete masterpiece, but like all fromsoftware games the busted magic ruins it a lot, however just the amount of replay-ability the game offers is amazing people like iron pineapple have pushed the the game and seen what you can do with it and its amazing. i'm started my third playthough of the game and i want to attempt the summon only run
Greatest sense of exploration and discovery I’ve ever felt from a game. I’ve also never felt more powerful at the end **** as I did when becoming Elden Lord
So much to do, so many secrets to find, so many giant weapons to swing at so many giant enemies. Best Fromsoft game yet. I wish more current game developers would rip a page out of Fromsoft's book because no game i can think of in the last few years even compare. 2022 game of the year hand down, possibly game of the decade.
The open world is amazing, there is so much detail to this game. But I can’t really call Elden Ring a game, because games are fun. Elden Ring is not fun. Its very simple why it is terrible. Elden Ring punishes you in more ways than just charging you $70, by giving you re-used Bosses, lots of dead ends, terrible game logic, zero fun, and a broken controller. Its mainly the terrible boss design, I get killed at full health in two hits while taking 30 minutes to recover from the last attack! And to just arrive at the boss fight, you have to deal with a plethora of nuisances that deal unreasonable amounts of damage. And by late game, you can only really level up your character and weapons by killing the bosses that kill you in less that 10 seconds. What really aggravated me and lots of other Elden Ring players was the Godskin Duo, the most annoying boss in the entire game. They are near impossible to fight without dying immediately. I know Elden Ring has one of the largest and most detailed maps, good graphics, and is a great challenge, but it all comes down to how much fun and joy you can have. There is no fun and joy in this. Zero. It is mentally draining to play. You should only buy Elden Ring if you an absurd amount of time on your hands and if you hate yourself.
Fanboy fodder. Games that do not have a save-on-demand feature are by the very definition, insane. Why would anyone want to traipse across a vast world, with little to no help against enemies that are way too difficult and not scaled? I am incredibly biased because I hated Dark Souls. This seems to be because it was developed to be an MMORPG, not a single player. I played for about 30 hours and wasn't enjoying running around collecting items that didn't have any effect. To me, this was a waste of time, and other than the decent graphics (except for the clipping) I saw no reason to play this, nor the reviews being as positive as they are.
I'm not an old From Software player and for me, the storyline is weird and unclear. But in other aspects this game is rock.
It's surely is one of the best games in the last 10+ years. Amazing music, story, combat, and lore. I 1000/1000 it because it was so fun. Very rarely would I say a game is perfect, but it pretty much is.
this game is one of the best souls like games ever! happy passing for everyone!
Elden Ring is easily 2022's GOTY. Open world, massive content, tons of items, perfectly balanced gameplay. The only letdown is the graphics, and some nasty performance issues nevertheless I have enjoyed playing the game 360 hours in, and still going strong.
The guys have a half-truth in the "complexity of such games", this particular one is raw, they kill through the walls, the enemies often teleport or stand on the contrary (I just met this xs mb), but to say that "this is a Masterpiece!" in my personal opinion, insanity. Teach Don't Teach Boss Movements, of course this can help depending on the person and their degree of assimilation (and this is time and nerves, a **** cloud of nerves). So why is it needed at all, will it be fixed? Clean up bugs, right?And after all, the problems that I indicated above exist in many games that came out, but for some reason, the pancake "master's creation" scored 97 on metacritic, what did it deserve? The only thing to praise the game for is the visual, everything is half of the game, and most of it just migrated from other games in the series, including enemies and bosses with slightly changed textures ("Schaub is not exactly the same" and some still scold ubisoft for monotony, seriously ?). So do you really need such a game with twisted boss stats, so that when you get 10-15 deaths, you go back to farm souls in the previous locations?In my opinion, this is **** I did not pay for the game, I confess, but I always do this, first the torrent if I feel that the game is worth it, I buy it. And this creation causes the most ambiguous feelings. So no, until they fix it, I see no reason to take it.
This game is a steaming pile of garbage. how it got 10 out of 10 across the entire critical spectrum is beyond my comprehension. It fails all three metrics I consider important for judging the quality ****, which are Gameplay, Story, and Graphics. The gameplay is just your standard Dark Souls gameplay with the added feature of a jump button. The story is told so indirectly it might as well be non-existent. and graphically it's seriously outdated. I swear the developer must have paid off the critics to give them 10 out of 10 across the board. This is not a 10 out of 10 game. I probably would have been more generous in my review if the reviews of this game were honest. It's at best a 7 out of 10 game. But the hype surrounding this game has made the critics and whole gaming community lose their collective minds. Don't drink the Cool-aid. This game is not nearly as good as people want you to believe it is.
Lots of bugs in the world Boring repetitive gameplay Duplicate enemies Riding system during combat is not interesting Music is only good when the bass is similar to Ubisoft games Duplicate camps This is a set of problems I'm surprised critics also score because of the bugs They did not reduce it because in other games, a score of 0.5 to 1 was reduced due to these problems. The votes are in favor and are not correct.
This is the first soulsborne game that I have ever played and it's probably one of my most favorite games. Although after getting all the endings, getting all achievements, and also completing all dungeons, there's not really much that I want to do. Other people probably just try out different builds or do challenges or something like that but I just don't really want to do that. Overall, great game.
It's a great addition to the Soulsborne series. There are some flaws, the big one being the PC stutter but it plays great most of the time regardless. My personal issues are the erroneous amount of delayed attacks and some seemingly unavoidable attacks.
After fully completing the game and putting in 140 hours, I think the critics nailed it, this game really is an open world masterpiece which is guaranteed to influence open world rpgs and maybe even open world shooters moving forward. The artistic, design, sound, exploration, immersion, combat, lore, enemy/area/boss/weapon/spell variety and size of the world are literally off the charts. It's also challenging while not being unfair and it gives you options to trivialise absolutely anything if you have no interest in the challenge. If they had charged $100 (EA or Ubisoft would have) it would be understandable but at 60 it's a steal. This game is almost certainly going to win GOTY 2022.
First 10h of gameplay, I made a conclusion that I have to make fun by myself, but after I spend some time to find something interesting I understood that even to me who can't stand the "make fun by myself" games It was so exciting. The most interesting part of this game, starting like at lvl 40 and ending at the finish.
This might be my favorite game of all time. It is a breath of fresh air from the other souls-like games. The beauty of Elden ring is that there are a million different ways to play it. If you ever get stuck on one boss, you can do 10 other things and come back when you're stronger. Not to mention that visually this game is stunning. Some of the views were truly amazing. 10/10 could not recommend more.
It always seems like some of the greatest games I have ever played always sneak up on me. I've played all 3 Dark Souls games, and while I liked them, I never really considered myself a fan. I knew that this game was on the horizon for a while, but my excitement for it didn't begin until about a week before it dropped, and when it did it was like the worlds worst itch meeting a backscratcher. Elden Ring is functionally the same as any of the Dark Souls games, albeit with From Software's approach on an open world. I was curious going in how the very clever world and level design from previous games would be affected by this, and I'm happy to say they nailed it. The open parts of the map are filled with areas that naturally peak curiosity and reward it with interesting events, good environmental story telling, or sometimes even just a beautiful vista. Pair that with more sectioned off areas that have a more traditional From Software level design and you have what, in my opinion, is the best of both worlds. Combat, like the Dark Souls games is solid, and while it may seem difficult at first, this game is better than it's predecessors at easing you into it. Leveling up and character building is a little obtuse like the other games, with little to guide you aside from finding a weapon you think is neat, but I feel like figuring things out like that is a bit of the fun in these types of games. That being said, as great a game as it is, nothing is without criticism. However in the grand scheme of what this game has to offer, I would say this is more nitpicking than anything. First of all, as with all From Software game I have played thus far, the multiplayer still feels a little obtuse and at times confusing to use. Myself and a lot of my friends were at different points in the story at different times, and not knowing where and where they could not be summoned in a world as open and with as much stuff to do as this one was frustrating. I didn't realize until 60 hours in that you can't summon someone in an area that you have already defeated the boss in, why not? Second is more a personal gripe than it is anything, but I played an Int/Dex build (original I know). My other friends that played with Arcane and Wisdom builds were throwing fire from their hands, summoning dragon heads to breathe damaging elements at things, and summoning lighting to smite their enemies. Meanwhile with my intelligence build I had... 10 different types of the same glintstone shard to fire. I ended up liking my build don't get me wrong, but I wish that intelligence builds had the same variety. Lastly, I wish that the smaller dungeons that veered off in the open world sections had a little bit more variety. I liked the ones I did, but by the last bit of the game I just stopped doing them all together because by that point I had my fill of caves, mines, and crypts. All in all, Elden Ring is phenomenal. Easily one of the best action rpgs I have ever played.
Such a beautiful, mayestatic and juicy game. Unluckily, it was a bit too big and too long for me. 120 hours and I still missed a lot of things miss!
First FromSoftware game that I’ve ever played. Also the first video game played at all since 2012. Very satisfying to complete the first time and still satisfying to continue playing. I have played through the game 5 times now and strongly recommend it to newcomers and RPG fans.
Can be really hard, but extremely rewarding, one of the best games I have ever played!
Guess you REALLY have to be into this kind of game. Incredibly boring, walk around kill things,die. Not much in the way of any story. The world design is nice, just a shame the graphics look several generations old. I'd sum this up as very tedious. Wish i hadn't bought digital now as i can't sell it to some from software bum boy who likes playing the same game over and over.
Pros: Amazing Graphics and art style, Fluid Combat with a wide array of weapons. Cons:, Late game difficulty spike that makes you feel like your back at Level 1(And I've beaten Dark souls 1), All of a sudden past the 35 hour mark Bosses suddenly take years to kill because of there high health pool, they have stupid fast attacks which is not a problem by itself, but those fast attacks hit for your entire health bar, what should be like is that Fast and hard to dodge attacks should hit for a little less, while easier to dodge attacks should hit for much more like it was in ds1. But the reason I don't give this game a lower score is because all these issues can be fixed by one guy with a slider tool. Just tweak some of the enemy health and damage. And this game is a solid 10/10.
This game is awesome a must play. Very long map can play different classes that suits you. I played astrologer my first playthrough. Bosses are fun and addictive to beat.
This game is incredibly addictive. I give my highest possible recommendation. So much fun. The open world is so expansive and riddled with secrets, it's insane.
If you wanna begin your journey with souls-like games then this title is for you. It is way easier than Bloodborn, Demon Souls or Sekiro. You'll die quite often but there are several optional bosses and gaining experience while exploring the map is fun. Horse and Site of Graces help a lot. The graphics are not that great and performance can be medicore. If you have SeriesX and tv supporting VRR it is not an issue.
So far I’ve been 135+ hours into this game, I can say this is one of the best games I’ve ever played in my life and I’m 33 years old, this is one of those games that marks a generation like Zelda OOT, Mario 64, FFVII, Halo, Elder Scrolls: Oblivion & Skyrim back then. Open world is HUGE and BEAUTIFUL, Combat mechanics are superb, difficulty is rough but extremely fun and the satisfaction after beating a hard boss is the best I’ve felt in ages, the scenarios are so beautiful, there’s many different builds you can try, weapons/spells/bows/crossbows/swords/pikes/axes…there’s just too many variety for you to choose, Incantations and Sorceries are so fun as well. This is a game you must at least try and the strongest contender for 2022’s GOTY hands down
A great game. Improved Dark Souls 3 in every way. It's hard but not unfair, with skill and good planing on character development, the game can be considered easy.
After 70+ hours of gameplay and realizing how vast this game is already knowing how much I've yet to explore, I am truly floored by the sheer size of the game. "But so what? Far Cry games are huge and it doesn't make them good." Except this....this is how it's done. This has all the intensity and frustration of a souls game with a level of immersion that would make Bethesda blush. Imagine all of that with creative story arc and add in multiplayer features. Yeah. It takes awhile to truly understand the greatness of this game, but once you do you'll quickly realize like I did that anything short of a 10 would be a disgrace
Elden Ring is a colossal game that involves fantastic combat encounters across the expansive world of the Lands Between. This game has at least 100 hours of rewarding and exciting content on a first play through. The open world is refreshing and stands out amongst the crowd of mediocre Ubisoft games. The world is densely populated with challenging bosses, dungeons and fascinating characters and quest lines. Customization is fantastic, you can select from many builds such as a glass cannon mage, a tanky knight or an adept bandit and that can be changed and reformed throughout the game. Elden Ring is the first FROM SOFTWARE game that I have played and it is excellent for beginners of the Souls sub-genre of games. There is lots of mechanics that make this game easier for newcomers but they can also be ignored if you want a greater challenge. This game is quite difficult but it rarely becomes grindy and repetitive. This game builds on the open world foundation left by Breath of The Wild and manages to be one of the most memorable, challenging and fun games I have ever played.
Yet another repetitive entry in the most overrated franchise in the history of mankind. Do you enjoy clunky, garbage combat with backwards controls, tons of unoriginal enemies, boss and minion alike, praised by the bird brained who seek validation in getting "gud" but if animations had any accuracy - would be insta-killed every dodge? Don't worry, those massive monsters usually die by attacking their feet in between the five minutes it takes for them to even attempt to stomp you. Do you enjoy the most empty world full of useless items with deep empty names, unintuitive crafting and boring levelling? You prefer your UI to look like Paint developed assets, a map that looks like a coffee-spilled archeological wastebin bag and your cutscenes to be **** since every NPC is supposedly great by speaking slow, utterly nonsensical lines? Better dodge roll spam away from any Fromsoftware product and every mentally deficient idiot that praises these pure garbage games. That's the real difficulty these titles present the gaming community.
Elden Ring is a superb experience, bringing From Soft's Dark Souls combat to a new level and open world. Easily the most accessible Souls game with hard but fair game play that rewards the user. The bosses are fun for the most part and the open world always has somthing to find and lack the soullessness of modern open world games. No game is perfect and Elden Ring has a few quibbles, such as some of the bosses being a little too big for the camera to see and the lock on system is flawed. However a 10/10 is not saying a game is perfect and I can give this game no less then that. One of the best games i have ever played neck and neck with Fallout New Vegas for my favorite open world game.
Apart from performance issues, this is one the best games ever. If you have a next gen console (xbox series/ ps5) buy it. Just buy it.
Elden Ring is a great game in my opion yeah it has his flaws, but for me the world-building and enemy-placement is so good on its on what it makes up for all the little flaws and stuff like what and what where only 2 points of so many. And no where is no need for an easy mode at all, you can explore from the beginning on other areas and loot them or just use summons :)
Superior successor of Dark Souls 2. This game is not a souls game, it's most likely a next game that trying to copy mechanics from dark souls. Input reading, enemy speed from sekiro but you character stuck at speed from dark souls 1, enemies deal so much damage, area damage everywhere, repeatability - enemies, areas
As somebody new to the souls games i wasn't sure what to expect from Elden Ring but it absolutely blew me away from the story to the combat and world design. In my opinion 10/10 may not even do the game justice.
Love this game! Ultimate souls game with INSANE beautiful world full of new stuff to explore and find out all by yourself! Game has multiple mechanics u can try its just there its letting u do it how u want to defeat it and has like 6 endings u can do by your actions/quests/idk am still finding out :D. I played like 200hrs till i defeated it but still i have a lot to explore so. If u want a game that lets u do whatever u want and like u want it just there :) just writing this cuz many kids dont know how to play this game cuz todays games are just so dum :D anyway :D love it cant wait for dlc :) just play it by yourself :) love u fromsoft
I'm new to from software games if You want a challeging and long aventure, Elden ring is for You theres a lot to learn and Discover and might take time. But it's totally worth, despite of some guys that suggets that the world is "empty" which I dont understand ( or probably due the lack of friendly npcs because everything wants to kill You) but theres more content per square inch than any Game I ever experiencia before. This Is not, not your average 3 hours adventure Game and thats what I love the most. You learn adapt overcome.
Masterpiece in making... game should be like eldenring ,more to game play than money ..
An uphill fight and can be super frustrating, but when you finally push through, its the best feeling in the world. the distilled essence of Dark Souls. a must play.
Elden Ring is a masterpiece and possibly my favorite game of all time, let me explain why. First of all, the gameplay. It is a hybrid of dark souls 3's combat system and general movement combined with aspects of Sekiro's mobility, such as jumping and stealth. In my opinion, it works perfectly well, combining methodical and agressive mechanicals into one. Secondly, the atmosphere and the open world. It truly is one of the most immersive games I've ever played. It's a beautiful game filled with diverse landscapes and beautiful music. Every area feels like your walking into a living, breathing painting. Next, the story in this game. It's fantastically vague and fleshed out, much like it's predecessors. The story itself is interesting and captivating, perhaps the best in the entire series. Now for the npcs and side quests. Almost every npc character in this game has a quest line. These are almost always amazing and generate a connection between the npc and the player. The problem of finding the npc in a hidden location is mostly gone now that a character marker has been added, although not completely. Finally, the cinematic and fantastic boss fights. My favorite part of all the souls games have always been the boss fights, duels with mythical knights and gigantic beasts are almost always done so well in the souls series. Elden Ring is no exception. So many bosses in this game are amazing! These aspects of the game add up to elden ring being a masterpiece. However, it's not perfect, nowhere near it.
lost so many hours of gameplay. I always properly exit the game, but when I came back, it said i didn't exit properly (i did). As soon as i read it, I knew something was wrong. Now i have 4 less hours on my save file, and all of my items i just got are gone. I'm not going to spend the next 4 hours just trying to get to where i ALREADY WAS. this was a problem when the game first came out. FIX YOUR GAME. i was stupid for thinking FROM would have fixed this asap or that it wouldn't happen to me because it hadn't happened yet. you'd have to be the biggest chump to play after something like that. I'm not gonna try to get my stuff back just for it to delete again. the worst games I have ever played saved properly. Regardless of literally anything else in the game, it not saving makes it garbage.
This easily became top 3 of my favorites games, the absolutely phenomenal story, the insane boss fights, good, fluid, controls. FromSoft put an absolute **** load of work into it, and you can tell. Absolutely perfect, one of the only games I've 100%. 10/10 will be playing through again.
Pros- A massive open environment with nooks and crannies galore. The freedom to build your character the way you want, and respec (once you reach a certain point in the game) when you want to try a different play style are nice options to have. There is loot and weapons and armor galore, several different spirit ashes to find and use, which are essentially NPC's that you summon to help you in battle, and numerous different talismans which give you boosts to different abilities and stats. The freedom to truly mold you character into the type of fighter you want them to be is superb. The gameplay is mostly solid, and teaming up with a friend in co-op is a whole lot of fun. The game is gorgeous and the world is very immersive at times. The ability to sort of create your own stories within the game and talk about it with your friends is a highlight for sure. I'll never forget discussing strategies for certain areas and bosses with a couple of my friends that also play the game. Cons- Terrible camera angles at times. I don't know how many times I can legit blame dying on awful angles while fighting enemies in confined areas simply because I couldn't see them due to the camera positions. The targeting system when there are multiple enemies gets frustrating, and as fun as co-op is, they make it way too complicated to summon a friend. It seems ridiculous that I have to go farm plants to craft the items I need just to play cooperatively. Let me send them an invite and roam the Lands Between at will. I don't like that Torrent cannot be used at all during co-op either. It makes traversing the vast open world with friends seem more like a task than a good time. Story... Yeah. I just don't find it interesting. Not only is it really vague, but it is also bland and essentially non-existent at most times. There isn't much to keep me going other than the thrill of the next kill and a desire to explore. The NPC's are all stoic and dull, and lack personality. You feel no connection to anyone in the game. As far as RPG's go, this is at the bottom of the list in that aspect. I also dislike the total lack of hubs. No populated areas, whatsoever. Not one single town or city with any signs of life. That is more of a personal preference than a knock on the game, because that is obviously intentional to leave this type of thing out, but still- It makes the huge open world seem very bleak, lifeless, and empty. Several bosses are repeated, as are dungeons (outside of legacy dungeons and the main bosses) and that also eventually begins detracting from the overall experience. All in all, it's solid. I have plenty of gripes and opinions on what I think would make it a much better game, but that is all subjective, personal preference. If you are a fan of Souls games, you will most likely love this one. If you are used to open worlds such as The Elder Scrolls, Witcher 3, GTA, Red Dead, etc... You may feel like I do.
I was initially a bit intimidated into the onboarding of this game (from attempting a souls game) but got **** in from the high scores on reviews. I felt like by NOT playing this, I would possibly be missing out on a game of the year candidate. The game is absolutely deserving of it's high marks and I'm blown away about how much I actually enjoy this game. The first couple of hours were a bit daunting and I started to wonder what I got my self into. It felt like "Well here comes another game I shouldn't have bought". But I pushed through to learn the mechanics and how the game wanted me to play and at this point, every time I turn on the Series X, its the first thing I click on. The world is highly satisfying to explore. The graphics look great on an OLED (Not sure what others have issues with, it definitely looks like a next gen game). The game is challenging which isn't easy to come by these days, but remains rewarding. The gear/progression system is addicting and I believe the game has very long legs as something you play off and on for the entire year. I'm a shooter/sports/sometimes RPG fan. This game should not be in my wheelhouse. But the hooks are in deep and at this point I couldn't be happier I decided to check this out. FromSoftware is now a "must check out" their new game developer for me alongside studios like Bethesda. Do yourself a favor, stop contimplating it. Stop getting stuck on people throwing hate because they don't enjoy the challenge. It's a game that doesn't hold your hand and that's rare right now and should be praised. We come to video games for escape and emergence. It's ****'s Elden Ring.
this game does everything better than most other games, the gameplay, the graphics, the world, everything is on point
I am not the type of person writing a lot of reviews, but in this case I believ it is an obligation to warn those players out there that this game is definitely not for everyone. I bought the game for a lot of money and expected a huge challenge, as I knew about the difficulty of souls games. I was prepared. I thought. After 19 hours I decided to get rid off the most frustrating gaming experience I have ever experienced from my consol and deleted the game. Not one minute did I feel any kind of fun spending with this game. In my opinion it is completely unfair and thus annoying. Furthermore there is basically 0 story. Vague storytelling? No. It is no storytelling. Terrible. Beautiful graphics? I would not consider it such. Often times I was not even able to realize there is an NPC next to me, because it disolved into the background. Music? When my 6 year old son without watching, just listening to what I am doing points out how terrible the music of the game is, I realize why my frustration spending with this title is so big. I honestly do not understand the extremely high critics reviews, why they call this game a milestone. Maybe for a niche group of players who like to be annoyed and frustrated by a game, it delivers, but I did not have fun with it for any second.
Its hard but worth it bla bla bla. IT was only made hard to cover up the fact that it would take 2 hours to beat on easy mode.
Best game I ever play, everyone should atleast give it a shot, might not be for every player ofc but still.
Not bad reminds me to 2001-2013 GTA 3+4+5 and 2018 Red Dead Redemption Two kinda sounds 2006-2015 Edmonton Rush tho.
Elden Ring is the pinnacle of gaming. A masterpiece of gaming. In a era of “Please hold my hand daddy” games, with screens littered with go here, do this icons all over the place, Elden Ring throws you in a world and says nothing because it’s your journey to make, survive, craft, loot gear, take in the scenery, run away from hard enemies. Every inch of the map is explorable and serves a purpose. The boss fights are intense and satisfying. Keep in mind while other developers have been updating their engines, this is still the same engine that brought us Demon Souls way back when. There’s a lot more to be said about Elden Ring but I’ll let you figure it out on your own. This last message is for a certain group of people, Stop asking for a easy mode.
There is no such thing as perfection but if I could score it 9.9 that would be more accurate. After 160hrs in my first playthrough Elden Ring has become my favorite game ever, as for the performance issues that some of the reviews mention, I played the game on quality mode on Xbox series X without V-sync or any fancy monitors and I didn't notice any frame drops, to be fair I started gaming in the 90's when 30fps was only a dream. Visuals: 9.9/10 (not realistic but jaw dropping and with a few glitches) Music and sound design: 10/10 (perfect balance between chilling exploration and intense masterpieces on boss battles) Story: 9.0/10 (hard to put everything together but worth it with an amazing lore) The open world: 10/10 (massive, rich with landmarks and filled with tons of challenging enemies and bosses) Gameplay: 9.5/10 (The very best of past from software games with a ton of additions to improve it, but it's lacking an in game journal to remove the need of so many online guides) A masterpiece that will undoubtedly become a classic for the ages and a must play for any serious gamer.
This game gives me anxiety. People think it's a classic, personally it's the least amount of fun I've had playing a game. It was torture.
First of all, let me preface by saying that it is never acceptable to knowingly release software that clearly cannot perform its main function reliably. Why should this be any different with Elden Ring's frame stutters? It has been a month and a half without any real fixes. I do not recall the same level of compassion with Cyberpunk. With Elden Ring, Fromsoft proves it has finally lost sight of what makes their games fair and rewarding and has caved in completely to artificial difficulty. Fights in this game are either trivial or littered with poorly thought out fast attacks and combos, with dramatic AOE effects in bossrooms to cover up the horrible design choices. The gameplay has barely changed since DS3 and does not equip the player with the appropriate toolset to handle its range of enemies. Even worse, they have somehow regressed in quality, with slower rolls, less i frames, input buffering, input delay, inputs disappearing. The damage done in the last third of the game is so bizarre that I cannot even begin to comprehend the thought process. It feels like From really wanted to make an open world game, designed a huge and interconnecting map, and everything else just played second fiddle: littering the landscape with uncreative, sparse and repeated dungeons and encounters, scrapping together unused boss and enemy designs from previous games and slapping it together without thorough playtesting or thoughtful user-oriented design. In summary, after several hundred hours of From games, this is the game that has now tarnished my image of From as a company that holds their games to high standards and respects the player.
Never had a single problem, glitch, bug, or stuttering frames, outside what would be expected from any other game. Frames aren't the highest, but it is consistent.
Genuinely one of my favorite gaming experiences and one of the few times I have taken the time to 100% complete an open world game.
This game is amazing… I always had Witcher 3 as the best game I have ever played but finally elden ring has stolen the spot. The games world building is awesome when you just start the game your just lost in this world. I get so sidetracked form the main story because the world is just so amazing to explore. The boss fights are top notch some better then other. But this is the game where you dream to be something you can be it. This game is for the hardcore fans and new ones. Just if you are new just give it sometime to get used to it and I promise once you get a hang of the movement’s and fighting controls it’s rewarding. But I have put in over 200 hours in this game and still find new stuff all the time. But this game deserves the praise the best I’ve ever played.
Upon starting this game, I realized that I had underestimated how hard this game was going to be. I was unfamiliar with the levelling system, I had trouble with the combat, all of the symptoms of "first souls game" syndrome. After a while of trying, grinding, and dying, I finally understood. I finally understood the magical game hiding behind the difficulty mask. I was immersed in the breathtaking graphics, the complex lore, and the grinding of armaments. But be warned; and this is a bit of a hot take. The game only starts to be fun after you beat the first story boss. Even though I am very far from completing the game, I can confidently say that I am extremely happy and satisfied with my purchase of Elden Ring
This was my first dark souls type game and its amazing. I love this game. The hype in this game is understandable. Its very beginner friendly if you have a brain. There are a few issues with frames but its never been a big problem personally.
Lê Văn An (Vietnamese: Lê Văn An) better known as Balls, is an American League of Legends player who most recently played professionally as the top laner for FlyQuest. As a member of Cloud9, Balls won the League of Legends Championship Series North America (NA LCS) twice and qualified for the League of Legends World Championship every year he was a part of the team
Horrible game. Constantly get immediately killed in any area I explore. Only critical hit from behind works. No objectives are shown. Guarding with shield does little to stop damage. Can't tell if you've completed the objective in an area. Can't tell the strength of the opponent. I get that I normally have to work my up in level but then the game should start with the immediate areas around me being easy. It offers a piece of equipment but then tells you it's not useful in its current form. Young S/W developers with egos try to develop a game that beats the player. Someone needs to tell them that the point of playing a video game is to have fun and enjoy it. This game is miserable. Waste of money.
I have to be honest, at first I tought it is over-ranked.. But now, I am about only 26 hours in, 33rd level Samurai.. Man, I haven’t played better balanced open world game ever - it is simply art and so much to be unfold in front of me. There probably is story (probably like it was in Diablo II back than), but I didn’t really need to follow anything, I am just discovering this massive highly occupied world, meeting these unique foes, some of them bosses, some of them over my level - even harder than bosses, so opening this map and going elsewhere discovering something new. Along the journey realising, there were very few games that got stocked in my memories as a such a enjoyment as this one and we are really going to past at start of the 90s.. There is no doubt it is GOTY of 2022, this game right now aspires to be one of the greatest since Diablo II - if you loved that one, this one is must. If You loved Sekiro, this one is must. Revolutionary title, that got far beyond of the competition. We can all speak about Horizon, we all know, that Starfield or God of War probably will be great, but at the same time we know what previous titles from these studios were, gameplay never been the first thing - not in the way predecessors of the Elden Ring were - and gameplay is the thing for me, reason I wanna play. Don’t get me wrong, I love to watch, but I have HBO max, Netflix and etc for this. If we compare this game to Witcher 3, which is another great game, full of cutscenes, first try to openworld and it was just great - I really enjoyed it, but longer I played, interest were lower, story was interesting, but I just got in this feeling that every fight is same, no challange, after 15 hours of play and that is the way Witcher I remember
One of the best games I've ever played! It could be a 10 but there are a few things holding it back. My biggest issues are with visuals. The game looks amazing but I've run into numerous glitches. Sometimes an enemy will disappear. One place I noticed this was a cave with large ants. Another was on a coast one just disappeared into a rock. Also sometimes the grass or other parts of the landscape seem to glitch out. I know some criticism comes from the difficulty but it's designed to make the player actually work to become better.
Don't expect an open world full of things, this is a soul game, so you'll die a lot and the "open world" will be full of tough monsters/knights to farm in order to level up. Unfortunately, you'll have to rely on guides to find what to do at the beginning. The game is good, but certainly not goty! Graphics are disappointing for ps5/xbox series x, there's a lot of bugs. Gameplay is archaic. Fan of the Souls serie will love it, but again isn't for everyone and is certainly not as good as all the reviews says.
I freaking LOVE this Game. Its phenomenal and everything I wanted from Fromsoft. For a more in depth Review you can use my backlogged link: ****/u/filmanwalt/reviews/ A little Sneak: gameplay The heart at the end. a) Territories I could rave all day about the diversity of the individual areas. There is so much to explore. Caelid, decomposed by rot, Limgrave as an open landscape with many castles and towers, Liurnia with a grandiose academy or the beautiful city of Leyndell. This is just part of the many areas to explore. The areas are a big part of the incessantly generating motivation. It's unbelievable that Fromsoft managed to establish their level structure, the clear recognition value even in an open world that is so big. Despite the new world, you always feel at home and always try to compare some sections, places, etc. with previous parts or are reminded of them. The drawn map is a dream. You don't have question marks everywhere, but prominent spots on the map where you decide for yourself: something could be there. From the drawing, there could be something there. Most of the time you are simply rewarded for your curiosity and basically get useful things. Secret doors, at some point there are a lot of them, are simply part of it and I like this uncertainty that you always have at Fromsoft because you don't want to miss anything. You can always find something somewhere, whether it's backtracking or unlocking a shortcut. The top of it is that in the last few hours I've discovered so many more areas and because of that I've been able to kill a lot of bosses. Not only the boss kill but also finding an area gives you so much joy at Fromsoft. b) bosses Big or small, optional or story boss, I thought so many were terrific. Radahn, Malenia, just to name two really great fights, show what boss gameplay can do. I especially liked Malenia, who couldn't supplant my favorite boss, Sister Friede. Although it is now the undisputed boss with the most tries for me, that never spoiled the fight for me. I also liked the multitude of optional bosses. But the recycling bothered me a bit, especially e.g. the black cavalry riders, who were always ABSOLUTELY IDENTICAL, was much too easy for me. The bosses, which then turn into trash mobs, are terrific and typically fromsoft, and they often made me sweat. The game is also getting more and more difficult, especially the last three areas are really tough. The game also gives you various options to act with different bosses (e.g. Mohg). Ultimately, the fat bosses also give you armor or weapons, and here too you have to make decisions and choose carefully. c) fight Whether magician, two-handed warrior or double katana samurai. There is so much possibility to change your character in Elden Ring, even during the game. I played with katanas for a long time, but also tried different weapons again and again. Later I even trained in faith and prepared myself with invocations before every fight. Halberds, fist weapons, daggers, swords, shields, bows, whips and much more. The Elden Ring arsenal is vast and only a small part of the greater whole. All weapons can be enhanced in various ways. Frost & Bleed? YES. Fire? YES flash? YES. Elden Ring gives you a kit and you can totally lose yourself in it in a positive way. Talismans replace the rings and only expand the hero's repertoire even more. There are also consumables and a crafting system. Especially the crafting shows Fromsoft's strength: If you read through here, if you look for the books together, then you will be given really important and good opportunities to strengthen your character. Gathering resources was never annoying, just well integrated. Each resource has its own look and at some point you also know what the item is that you collected there. It's not one size fits all, it doesn't all look the same. In addition to the possibility of PvE co-op NPCs or online partners, you can also summon different spirits. A great feature, but I only used it more often when clearing warehouses. For almost all bosses I personally left them out. Among them there are also really cool items with great figures. I finally used PvP and co-op a lot. I've helped people with Mohg so much because there were just so many runes for it, which gave me the opportunity to buy a lot of crafting stones to try out more weapons. PvP went much better than in the other parts (fewer lagging opponents) but there are already a lot of brutally strong meta builds here. I played with bleeding a lot. Conclusion 10/10 ELDEN LORDS. I love the game and it has climbed the Fromsoft throne for me. My beloved Dark Souls III has been supplanted and in my eyes it deserves Elden Ring. I had 107 hours (+15 with my magician) of constant fun, going through a lot of emotions and just a really good experience.
This is my first FromSoftware game so take it from someone who's not a FanBoy, I mean I've been wanting to play Dark Souls for the longest time but never got around to actually picking one up. But after playing Elden Ring for the first time, maybe I'll try FromSoftware other games. I haven't finished Elden Ring yet but this game is too good, that I have to give it a rating and review. The exploration is fun and big. The art work and the graphics are awesome. Especially playing this on an Xbox Series S. The storyline makes you want to play more. And the best part, the rewards you get for defeating a boss, after being defeated over 100 times. Yes there are some little frame drops here and there, to be honest I hardly notice them that much. And yes the bosses are ridiculously difficult, but that is what to be expected from FromSoftware games. But they give you the option to always run away, level up and fight the bosses again. This game easily is a 10/10 for me and I have to say it feels like the game of the year. Without a doubt this game is worth buying.
Nothing special. Wooden mechanics sold as features. I spend like 5 hours and I have hard time to force myself to continue.
The game is good, no microtransactions and a fantastic world. The game is worth you money
Absolutely one of my favorite games I’ve ever played, and quite possibly my favorite fromsoft game.
I was not a Dark Souls fan at all. In fact, I hated all the snobish souls culture. But this game just caught me like probably no game except for Skyrim or New Vegas 10 years ago. It is one of the best gaming experiences I had in my life.
friendship ended with breath of the wild, elden ring is my new best friends
The best game this gen has seen so far, excellent story and polished mechanics
Difficulty perferction. Organic and not a arbitrary "easy/normal/hard" or "Give me just the story/journalist mode" before the game even begins. Amazing artstyle, combat, traversal, atmosphere, direction, soumdtrack, quest design, story, ending/s, bossfights and, as always, level design. Truly their most thought-out work.
It’s one of my favorite games. If you don’t like it because you’re bad or don’t like it’s fine because the games not for everyone but if hate on it because your bad your a ****
This is easily one of the best games i have ever played, and believe me when i say I’ve played many. I joined the feeble cohorts of console gaming when the SEGA Master system was cool. This was the start of a life long infatuation with gaming. Thats where it started. NIntendo,PS, Xbox, indeed even a PC or two have graced this household with its presence. Ive played many, many great games. I’ve rescued the Milky way from fearsome reapers, liberated the nuclear wasteland, stolen thousands of cars, liberated tropical islands, won countless Stanley cups and to boot l, a few world cups. I’ve planned and built cities and I’ve protected man kind in the name if our God emperor! Ive played over 200 hours of Elden ring on my Series X , not nearly as many as I’ve spent on Dark souls one, two or three. But i predict this game will be one of the greats. One of those you keep coming back to. I truly have loved every moment of it. The open world keeps distracting you, leading you astray from your true quest. Visually stunning vistas and alluring lore that keeps you hooked on lorevids on Youtube is accompanied by stellar fighting mechanics and that ever present feeling of joy and fear at the same time. You know the one, where you never know whats next on the epic journey. Bossfights in line with what we’ve come to expect when it comes to FROM, secret and rare items, dragons, fire, magic, stellar soundtrack and of course..Patches! This game has earned a spot in my all time top ten of games. It is a few patches from top five. (Software updates, that is ;). ) Never wrote a review before.. This seemed like a good time to start! /Razz
Fantastic game. Brutal at times but absolute the best game of the last 3 years and the best RPG I've ever played. Not to be confused with Skyrim - far more rewarding and much better combat at the cost of serious difficulty increase. One complaint - it could use in-depth tutorial for newcomers.
It’s a mixed bag – not very newcomers friendly nor satisfying for veterans. A lot of n000bs friendly mechanics (summons, bleed, assists, too closely placed “bonfires”) ruined the experience. No longer I have a sense of archievement. I was forced to limit myself to play with pure melee build without cheating (enchanting, spells, summons etc.) to get a mildly harder adventure. Those From Software “lifehacks” gone too far – now You’re not even forced to talk to NPC, to get a map icon info who he is…for example it completely ruined first encounter with Blaidd. Game is vast and You’re hyped at the beginning – first area (Limgrave) has the best environmental structure (dragon, dungeons, mini-boss, big cart, camp). Landscape is immersive and for the moment I was feeling epic adventure vibe. Sadly, this bait for beta access reviewers is going down very fast – too big and empty, stretched without common sense, not rewarding for your time invested… Dragons are too easy, quests are too complicated for open world, crafting unnecessary (you can’t craft weapons nor armors), legendary weapons are easier to upgrade than normal, dungeons too small, framerate at 35-50 fps, pop-in everywhere, unbalanced weapons (colossal zweihander damage and stagger equal to claymore…), etc… After 150 hours I’m bored. It’s a promise unfullfiled. Elden Ring is very overrated and not a masterpiece. From Software – You can’t put souls series into mainstream. You sell 12M copies but people are angry and this 7,5 Metacritic rating is VERY accurate.
If it is this hard to find summons halfway through the game just after its release, it will be completely dead within a year. The game is too sprawling for coop to work as well as it did in DS3. I am hoping they went with the name, Elden Ring, to leave room for a DS4 that returns to the winning formula they had before they decided to make a DS/AC hybrid. I got over 1000 hours of playtime with DS3. ER ends for me at 50.
As someone who avoided "souls" games, this one really blew me away! When my last try was "Demon's Souls" on the PS3 and I walked away from it near the beginning, thinking this was just not something I wanted to waste my time on, I never took Elden Ring serious as something I would play. From recommendations and watching some streams, I figured why not give it a shot. And wow, with the HUGE open world you didn't even have to bother about the bosses till you really felt the urge for it. With this open world concept, the entire "souls" genre changes, leaving the difficulty scaling up to the players. You can try to tackle the bosses head on, doing the old school masochist style marathon to the final boss, or you can run around and explore, expand your arsenal with weapons and spells and even level up as you please, before returning to the "now very easy" headaches known as bosses. If you are in need of wasting a huge amount of hours, this is the game for you! Because, once you pop.... I have personally played through this game three times by now, it should be considered as addictive as crack!
Excellently done. There are some balancing, networking, and bug issues but really not bad considering what other devs push as "finished games". FromSoftware has done a great job and I could only imagine what they could have done with another 6 months or a year. For people complaining about repeating enemies; it's a valid complaint. However, given the shear magnitude of the game I don't fault them for it. Thank goodness they didn't give us 100s of useless fetch quest like other open world games.
I haven't finished elden ring yet, however, I suspect I'm getting close. This is my first souls type game, and I can say without a doubt this game is very accessible to players new to the painful power struggle that is a fromsoft game. That being said instead of praising the game I will point out my only real problem with the game. Simply put, the game is extremely unintuitive, this can be seen in the way lock-ons work, as well as in navigating the menus. This is nowhere more apparent than in the quest design, and I absolutely adore the open ended quest design, however there are a lot of times when you are given a quest unexpectedly, and then must remember a name or location with no way to repeat dialog. It's frustrating at times but the rest of the game completely sweeps away this frustration. TLDR: The HUD and Menus are bad, and the quest design is annoying
Simply the best open world game ever. Mystery behind every corner, great gameplay and beautiful world design.
This has been one of the most engrossing and addicting gameplay experiences I have had in years. This is a difficult and dark experience that is not for everyone, and that's ok. For me it's been a nonstop thrill ride where death awaits on every corner and new locations come with amazingly detailed environments and new terrible adversaries. It can feel like a 'Breath of the Wild' fever dream. I've enjoyed FromSoftware games in the past but never to this level, each hour of play is rewarded with awesome weapons, unlockable items, enemies, and jaw dropping landscapes. There are bug fixes needed, and it appears that they are being handled in a timely manner, and that is why for me this has been a close to perfect experience.
So frustrating. I raged quit tonight after putting in over 100 hours. Not even due to a boss fight. The game is unbalanced in its difficulty. This game is for a tiny subset of gamers. I have a stressful job, I look to games to blow off steam and this game achieved the opposite. I don't even feel accomplished after defeating a boss, just relief. Why would anyone subject themselves to this?
Fromsoftware does it again! They are the best in the industry and deserve all the attention and credit they are receiving. The game is an absolute masterpiece, Miyazaki’s Magnum Opus, beautifully created world enthralling story that seems vague on the surface but gets deeper as you explore and progress through the game and read item descriptions (this has been their model for all their games and it works wonderfully). I’ll expect and accept nothing less than Game Of The Year for this sensational game! It features a gigantic map with over a hundred hours of content in a single play through. Fromsoftware Reigns Supreme and I couldn’t be happier! I’ve been a Fan since discovering them around the time when Dark Souls 1 came out and they have never disappointed me!
I've registered on MetaCritic only to give a fair review for PC version. This game is so bad. An indie game with such basic issues would receive 0 points, so this is how much I give it. Bad controls, outdated graphics, input delays. Lacks concealed as "being hard to play", and strangely high critics reviews.
Game of the century. I haven't played with such passion as an explorer in a long time. It is very good that no one will lead you by the hand in the game. You yourself must experience the world of ELDEN RING.
Horrible empty open world, very generic, literally the same as the other souls games.
It's fur sure the best game Fromsoftware ever made . It has some reused assets but other than that this game is a masterpiece
PS2 graphics? Check! Awful controls? Check! Insanely overhyped? Check! Absolutely overrated? Check! Same animations as DS3? Check! You can't swim in this open world game that has water? Check! Boring empty open world? Check! Praised by critic as next level of open world games? Check! Fanboys treating it as best video game of all time? Check! Should you waste 60 dollars on this "Masterpiece"? Never!
So cool, So good. Just like DS1. I honestly love this game. 10/10. just like magic.
so BIG, so deep, so interesting, like nextgen zelda. Many secrets, many interesting bosses, many locations. U play the game and game doesn't meant to end.
I really love this game, the way it tells its story, the bosses design, the only thing I don’t like so much it’s the necessity to spend a lot of time to be able to have a good level to defeat a boos at the beginning of the game, but I know this is how you play a Souls game, so it’s fine!
I dont like it too much. Neither aesthetics, nor balance, fights, story and this huge empty world. It requires very much time for exploring and game rewards your exploration with very little of something. Sekiro is like million times better. Cant understand how same team was able to make ingenuous sekiro and this. Continue to playing however - maybe later will change my mind
Bloody hell, this game is bad. Let me be clear : If you've ever played a soulsborne (Sekiro was different. Bad, but different.), you've already played Elden Ring : same animation, same layout, same concepts... at this point, From Soft became a caricature of themselves. Dark Souls 3 and Bloorborne were good, though. So what's the difference ? Both were known for their excellent level design. With this open world, the laziness is over 9'000 : you're dropped in the middle of and empty land and have to figure out not only how to do things but worse, what to do. This game is a disgrace.
Unbelievable game from FromSoftware probably the best game they have ever produced, I've played them all and 100%'d them all too; this was an absolute standout. I'd say it was a solid 9.5/10
Best damn game I’ve ever played. GOTY. Haven’t put so many hours in a title in a long time.
This is a pretty awesome game. Great fight mechanics, deep RPG upgrade system, lots of customisation loot and an immense open world that just keeps coming. The only reason I give it a 9 and birth a 10 is the performance issues; it’s not very well optimised on series x. The ray tracing mode doesn’t look any different to the performance mode… apart from the frame drop, frame rate is a bit jerky and some pop in is seen. I also think that the dialogue and story elements are too sparse to make a cohesive feeling story. However, it’s a fantastic and well designed open world. The enemies are original and imaginative. I can see why people think they’re cut and paste, but that’s the point of the souls borne games. You learn the patterns and apply your style to each enemy as they present themselves. It has an original feel, although it’s in the dark souls format. No micro transactions or crowbarred in multiplayer. It’s a genuine, honest to god single player experience. It’s got no cynical angles to it. The grind is real but balanced. Just don’t expect it to hold your hand!
I couldn't have asked for more from this release by From Software. The game exceeded my expectations in every regard.
My final and brief opinion on Elden Ring: They were right on many things, they were wrong on many others as well. The first experience is incredibly memorable and the main bosses are amazing, the lore is nothing to talk about, although I think it's very similar to Dark Souls and lacks a bit of originality. The problem is that there comes a point, more precisely in the second half of the game, that it gets very repetitive, the optional bosses are very forgettable, the boss repetition is ridiculously annoying and the game balance is so unstable to the point that you are OP without nor make effort, spoiling the Experience. The soundtrack is far inferior to past games, especially if we compare it to Dark Souls 3 and Bloodborne, you can count on your fingers which ones are really memorable and incredible. The exploration of the world itself is phenomenal and intuitive, it's really a revolution of the open world system, but unfortunately that's only true for the first time playing, making the game have very little replay factor, as you've already seen all the new exploration. In short, the game is amazing and extremely fun and addictive, it has a lot of successes but it also has a lot of flaws. For FromSoftware's first open world game, I'd say they are to be congratulated, they improved a lot from the other games, but honestly it could have been better. If they had more creativity and time, the game would be immensely more memorable and most of the game's serious flaws would be minimized. Overall, it's an unforgettable game on your first playthrough and it's really worth it, it's not quite a masterpiece as many have said, for me it's basically an open world Dark Souls 4, but it's worth the investment, especially nowadays where the market of Videogames only cares about money and quantity, while FromSoftware cares more about the artistic factor and quality in their games. Final rating: 8/10
TLDR recap: - no local multiplayer (two family members would need two systems and two disks) $$$$ stupid - the skill level needed, constant dying, almost non-existent margin of error for the average gamer make the game WAYYYYY less fun. I didn't come here for a part time job. (and this is coming from someone who beat Targit at lvl 23 with an Astrologer) - forced into pvp just to play with friends. Stupid, lazy, and bordering on straight up jerkdom (1) No true local multiplayer. A family needs TWO xbox units & TWO disks to play what I should be able with one each. It borders on criminal negligence in today's game market. Period. (2) First From Software game. To say the survival learning curve is hideous is a laugh. You die over and over for no reason other than developers thinking it's FUN for professional people with families wanting to relax playing a video game. There's no such luck with this title. I understand learning a game and getting better skill, but there is no margin for error for simple mistakes. This is coming from someone who killed Margit at lvl 23 as an Astrologer...farmed the meteorite staff etc....I researched. I improved skill. Still the learning curve is STEEP and unnecessarily harsh. Think of the average player not the try hards or make tiers like so many other games do to fix it. (3) Forcing me to play multiplayer in today's gaming world when I don't want to adds to my frustration. So I have to have two systems and two disks to play the game with family already and NOW you force us to play pvp vs randoms if we try to play with help. It doesn't make the game fun for those that don't want pvp. Just stop it. It borders on being jerks to your player base. It's lazy. Make a separate pvp system without forcing us to comply with it. Fix these three issues and my rating goes to a 9.
1st review I write here, 1st souls game. This has to be a 10. Even if its not your style of game one has to admire the sheer scope and game design. Finally a recent game respecting your intelligence and time. No bloat, no railed experiences, 70h in and still hungry! Performance would make it a 9.5 but I’m countering the 0s, PLEASE don’t let those reviews fool you, this game is special
Some of the complaints from "Souls veterans" can be easily debunked. The graphics are maybe a 7/10 at best but the way FromSoft displays their art style that's been developed over the years, in this colossal world, really shines brightly. I found myself stopping at times looking around at the gorgeous view especially on top of large cliffs or mountains. The time of day changes can create different shots as well. The open world in Elden Ring is done better than most open world games today. That's what's considered "Revolutionary". They kept the souls-like feel despite going open-world which is more than what most game devs are able to do with their games when going in that direction. The way they reuse assets in this game is done properly. The world isn't littered with garbage and utterly useless items making the game feel repetitive (*cough cough Ubisoft games). Some of the bosses you fight early in the game become tough regular enemies later in the game making you as the player feel stronger and accomplished with the knowledge of how to defeat such enemies. The catacombs/dungeons are structured in a way that feel the same but each have their own set of enemies, traps, secrets, rewards and items. There's a reason to go into a specific dungeon because you may want that talisman, weapon, or ash. The recycling of assets in Elden Ring is done in a way that other developers should look at as an example of how to make a game feel fresh for 100 hours. The only other game that has done this well that I've played is Batman Arkham Knight I wouldn't call the combat boring in any way even if you've been playing Souls games from the beginning. I mean, maybe you're just bored of it? I'm not a souls veteran by any means but I have played Souls 1, Sekiro and now this game. There is a clear difference in scale and choices in Elden Ring. The amount of different builds you can design lets the player choose from literally 50+ options of how to play the game. You can look up builds on youtube as there are many literally just making builds for this game. I think this was FromSoft's way of adding more variety but it may have also added an "easy mode" as there are some builds/weapons that are considered by the community OP and an easy way of running through Elden Ring. (ie. Moonveil, Magic, etc) Overall, I highly recommend this game to any gamer. It is still difficult compared to your average RPG but will be worth the time and effort if you stick through it.
Masterpiece! Wow this game has blown me away not sure what to do with myself now anything else I play just feels empty
To me it's the best fromsoftware game I have played dark souls 1,2 and 3 I played about 20hours of 1 and only 3hours of 2 and about 80hours when I finished 3 I also finished bloodborne which was great fun and spent 140 hours playing sekiro which was hard but really satisfying as well, elden ring is great for vets and new people as well because you can fight bosses when it's very hard or go and explore and fight the boss and beat them easily the explanation is the best part for me and we'll the combat is also great, if you have ever thought about trying these types of games out this is the one to try first
This was my first FromSoft game and I never expected to finish it because of that. But I just finished with my 3rd playthrough and got 100% of the achievements. The game is that good. It is really fun to just explore around conquering bosses as you come across them. There are hidden secrets everywhere, it doesn't feel like any of the space is wasted like in so many open world games. It does have some problems though. The first problem is that there is no quest interface whatsoever. There are certainly quests, just no way to keep track of them without doing it manually (eg. pen and paper) or the more realistic solution: just google everything. The 2nd big issue is that co-op is just backwards. With most games with jump-in co-op you would ask for help, and people answer. In this game, people have to volunteer to help and then wait around for someone to ask for it. If you want to just co-op the entire game with friends, well you can't, it doesn't work that way. Co-op ends as soon as a player dies or a boss does and you have to set it up all over again. Definitely could have been done better.
Repetitive, the most efficient way to play is to find the weapon with the most damage and do a jumping attack, pvp is lousy unless you like to be ganked by 2-3 people and if by some miracle you win the rewards are not worth it, in late game bosses are very unfair, decent game but Sekiro has better combat, Bloodborne better story.
Absolutely phenomenal I've tried many soul's games but haven't like any of it but this one is my key the to soul's world it's fantastic!
Beautiful game. Great combat, customization of character, and world. Truly feels like a video game whose soul purpose is to entertain No micro transaction or pay to win mechanics makes me feel like I’m playing a game from the early to mid 2000’s again If you enjoy a game that is classic in nature, leveling up your character, exploring the world and defeating satisfying bosses, please support and pick this game up
The Worst game ever made by From Software, the details lack polishing, a step backward in all aspects compared to the previous work. If you want play a From Software's game, Elden Ring is the least worthwhile work to play.
Tough as all hell but I really enjoyed playing it. The lore and enemies are fantastic and the world is so immersive. I normally dont play these sorts of games so I struggled with basically everything but I must be a glutton for punishment as I still managed to make it to the end. Overall I would recommend if you like the challenge.
Welp, im just here to raise awareness for my fellow asian players on the language issue who can't play because the game is locked in select languages like chinese, korean, taiwanese. For my fellow users that have to create a hong kong, japan acc for their credit cards to work because it doesn't work if the region is for example the united states. For my fellow users who don't have physical copies on sale on the stores near them. For my fellow players who can't get a refund
I am giving this game a 5 because this game is like every previous Souls game, with the only difference being that this one is open-world. Also because the circlejerking fanboys need to chill. This game isn't the best game ever, far from it, the gameplay is very repetitive, the controls are cluncky, the story is very basic, there are performance issues and the graphics far from being as good as some people make them to be. And before you start crying while reading this review, I am not a salty Sony Pony/Horizon fanboy that is triggered this game got more attention than Forbidden West. I think Forbidden West is even worse this game.
Having very little experience completing a souls game. I put myself at the task of finally taking down this game. It took a lot of work multiple restarts of new characters finding different styles and guides to help me out. Yes I did beat it first using the astrologer. It was not easy by no stretch in fact my second time through the game I did the vagabond and used the glorious golden halberd which did make most bosses feel super easy but once I took one the dual wielding great swords did this game feel truly special. All of this to say that the freedom in this game is what truly sets itself apart from former games in the series and the unguided nature of the game sets it apart from other open world games minus a few that did it first. I recommend giving this game a try and once you do finally beat this massive undertaking give new game plus a try as well and don’t be afraid to hit every single spot in the game it makes it that much sweeter.
Elden Ring reminds me of why I got into gaming years ago. 180 hours in and just finished first play through. SO MUCH CONTENT
This game is very overrated. its not a bad game but its not a great one either. There is no story, IF you are expecting a Horizon: Zero Dawn story where the characters are engaging then look elsewhere. The combat is bad and most of the enemies are frustrating. I enjoy a challenge but their is a difference between a challenging game and a frustrating one. The graphics are not that good for a game in 2022. The world is huge but what's the point if most of the world is empty. If you are expecting an rpg with towns like elder scrolls then you will be disappointment. I dont see how so many critics are giving this game perfect scores. You will spend a lot of hours grinding to level up and your character will still be weak. I don't see the point in leveling up my health by 50 levels and I can still die in 3 hits. This game is a 7 at best. This is my first souls game and i would probably never play another game from this developer. RPGs are some of my favorite games but i never been so frustrated from playing one.
I hold a few games in my collection to be saved for the future generations. Elden Ring is one of them.
To start, this is my 1st from soft game I have ever played. Linear games where you die over and over again were never my cup of tea. That being said here is my review of ER after becoming the Elden Lord. Pros: The game is absolutely huge. The world Is amazing to explore and almost every nook and crannie holds something to find or discover. Boss fights are epic but can't get a little frustrating if you play certain classes. The character building /level up system is pretty good as well. Cons: The story is very hard to follow as you are told something once and you have no record of anything you were told so if you forgot something you're pretty much clueless unless you look it up online. Same goes for the hidden sidequest throughout the game. It's one of the most poorly constructed quest /side mission implementation I've ever seen in any game. The enemies that are supposed to be trash mobs running around the open world are sometimes harder than the main bosses which is ridiculous on its own. Recap. All in all it is a good game If you want to randomly run around the amazing open world and kill stuff with no rhyme or reason or any way to look back to see what npc's have told you along the way. If you are into story or dialog this is definitely not a game for you.
The only time I've ever even considered giving a game a perfect 10/10. The perfect mix of exploration, challenge, Boss Fights, Lore, amazing sound and music and Out-right fun. This game is not for people who want their hands held, or are hell bent on a linear game play style. Don't go into this if you're expecting another Skyrim, it will teach you a brutal lesson, that only gets more and more brutal, as seen by many reviews. Just scroll through and most scores under 9 will be complaining about a lack of direction, or too much difficulty in a game that's about discovery and choreography, more than it is grinding to be over-leveled, which seems to be something people can't understand, very curious. The game that breaks the mold and managed to create what i believe is the greatest souls game, and perhaps one of the greatest games of all time! In this case, most bad reviews can be seen as a good way to feel better about your own gameplay experience!
I liked the previous souls games and this one is the best so far. The world is fun to explore and looks great. The difficulty seems a bit more doable and bosses are varied. Definitely check this out if you like other from software games but this will probably not change you didn’t like previous instances.
I'll give it a ten once the game is well optimized, because I prefer smooth 60 fps gameplay without ray tracing and no 4K to 30 fps and 4K gameplay. The performance mode needs to be reviewed, you can do without a drop in resolution or detail to have a game at 60 fps anyway, make an effort for the performance mode.
This game is so **** ass i hope who ever made it loses their keys every morning when they are late to work and gets shampoo in their eyes every time they shower
The title of this game is Elden Ring Not Dark Souls. If you told everyone this game was gonna be like that with a terrible multiplayer that is the dumbest thing i have EVER EXPERIENCED as far as the process to get friends to join. You advertise a Open world Co-Op multiplayer game , but in actuality its a single player game that has a limited co-op/ restricted multiplayer access availability. False advertising. Yes this is a beautiful game but it is really made to be a single player game. Also button inputs do not register they are delayed, there is also camera lock issues as well. Sorry but this is my opinion, its kinda harsh but the game i thought i was gonna get to play wasn't what i saw in leading up to the hype.
I wanted to give this a 9.5 but felt it was worth the round up. Is the game perfect? no. It has minor technical issues. However, the Gameplay is absolutely fantastic. The world is massive, rich and detailed in ways that will have you constantly surprised. I am currently on my second play through and still finding new things constantly. It is a tough game, but don't be afraid to explore and level up when you hit a wall, and remember to summon other players, we are all here to help. Have fun in the lands between! UPDATE: I now have over 170 hours in this game and can flat out say it is worth that 10.
Love this game. There is a ton of build diversity and plenty of weapons or spells that you can use. You’re not limited to using the “best” weapons and builds. There are a few difficulty spikes when the enemies in a new area get a lot stronger, but if you just explore the world you should be able to level up easily. This game has a lot to do and it never felt like I was grinding. There are always new dungeons or bosses you find and the satisfaction after finally taken down a tough boss feels great. One of my favorite game.
Even after all the weapons nerfing that came with later patches, it was an overall great experience. A real open world souls with memorable battles and images that will remain in our memories.
Quite honestly the best game in years it’s story depth and gameplay o the gameplay it is the most recent masterpiece in modern days
One of the best games I have ever played, i am 40 years old and absolutly live this game. It is not easy for sure but it is a fair game and a stunning one. I can only recomend this game 100% and try it for your self. In xbsx runs perfect. You will love it! (Btw it is my first fromsoftware game and was afraid of the difficulty but it is not that difficult)
As a huge souls fan I have to give this game a 10/10!!!! The world, the art, the enemies, the amount of hidden items and areas, it's just perfect!!! Game of the Year!!! Hands down!
Elden Ring has some great attributes... It looks nice, there is a lot to explore and discover, etc... But the reason I can't give it more than 6/10 is because... Well... It isnt fun. To get anywhere you have to grind and repeat over and over and over and over. I don't think I've ever put the game down whilst feeling satisfied. I usually quit feeling irritated or bored to death. There is a fine line between difficult and dumb/irritating. I'm a big Metroid fan, so hard games arent usually an issue. But this game just makes itself hard for the sake of it. It's not fun, it's just boring. The controls arent responsive enough imo to warrant the difficulty. I'm level 155 and the game goes from killing soliders with one hit to getting my ass handed to me in two hits by the same soldiers 2 minutes later. In summary, the game isnt fun. It's tedious
Elden Ring is a totally average game. Don't believe the trolls and the toxic community talk. Many people consider From Software to be the originator of the Souls genre. It actually has its origins in Nihon Falcom. Therefore, according to them, Miyazaki is a messiah. However, Miyazaki and the Souls team is still making the same mistakes. Objective problems: -Hitboxes are not good. There are times when it reminds me of the DS2. -Boss designs are very unbalanced. They didn't really work well with many bosses. -The game gets too repetitive. Open world exploration is nice, but it gets boring quickly. -There seems to be a lot of items, but in the end, a few items are the most useful. The game forces you for make to broken builds. Because some boss designs require it. All builds look alike. For example, more than half of even PvP uses blood builds. -Optimization is still not fixed and every update is getting worse. -Spells are powerful. Playing spell builds are more advantageous in many ways. -Camera angles are not good. It really causes trouble. When the number of enemies is high, you cannot control field of view. -Lore quality is definitely a controversial topic. However, it has the same lore in other Souls games. Only their names have changed. George R. R. Martin is just PR work. -Enemies are just based on nonstop spawn attacks with endless stamina as like most of bosses. -Many of the bosses repeat themselves. Most bosses are either the same or reskin version. -The hit feeling is not good. Especially the bosses don't even react properly to your attacks. -It has a toxic and cancerous player base. -Artificial intelligence problems. A real disaster. -It is a headache for some attacks in the game to pass through objects. Conclusion: This game is not a masterpiece. Not on a new ip. It's just Dark Souls 4 with open world.
Full disclosure, I am a fairly big fan of the Dark Souls series of games and have been playing Souls games for nearly a decade now; so take that into consideration. With that out of the way, I would like to say that Elden Ring is simply incredible. I have not experienced a newly released RPG that has enthralled me this much with its world and gameplay since Fallout 4 - back in 2015. The diversity in builds and play styles, the humongous amount of interesting dungeons and environments, the plentiful and awesome loot, and of course the difficult but very fun to fight enemies and bosses - all of these elements are done very, very well in Elden Ring. There are some technical problems here and there, mainly with the frame rate and some controller delay - but this will not destroy the awesome experience. As a send off I want to say this, Elden Ring is not short and it does not hold your hand, this could seem overwhelming to some gamers, but I want to say that Elden Ring hardly ever felt like a chore. While Elden Ring is a long game, it's so open and has so much in it that I hardly felt like I was spending too much time playing it. Even if you are crunched for time from work or school, I still would highly recommend trying out this awesome game.
World building was great, gameplay unfortunately made it very challenging to enjoy. heavy input lag on most actions as well.
Amazing game! Plays best on the XSX with VRR. Game of the year easily. People have no clue who rate this game under a 9. Best game of the last 5/6 years
Probably the best game I've ever played. Combat feels amazing, one of the most full and interesting open worlds I've played, and an insanely captivating world and story.
As someone who’s been playing games since Atari 2600 and with 200 hours and 1 ending into the game, I can easily say that this is the best game I’ve every played.
This has to be my absolute favorite Souls-like and From Software game. The game delivers on its promises of retaining that soul's formula. This game had me dying in my first 5 minutes of playtime. This will come across as frustrating for some, but that's what it's intended to be. The open-world nature of the Lands Bettwen is majestic in even the most colorless regions. One of the main reasons I found Sekiro to be boring is that all locations had the same feel. Most of the enemies were natural and earthly, looking to be rememberable. Elden RIng is everything I was hoping for in a From game. And if I could give a more accurate rating, I would give this a 9.9 because Elden RIng, in my eye, is flawless in world-building and charter design. I have one major criticism of the game, and I admit it is quite a funny criticism. In my eye, it has one of the worst opening theme songs in any of the From games. But besides that main criticism, this game is flawless and my pick for a possible match of the year.
This is literally everything a videogame should ever strive to be. Masterfully created world with great lore, the most accessibility on any FromSoftware game to date, awesome boss fights and seemingly never ending content. The last time I felt like a game was so much worth the asking price was in 2017 with Persona 5. Elden Ring is one of the best experiences I’ve ever had in general and the world would be a better place if everything was made with so much care and respect for the target audience.
And the copy and paste was unreal I rolled my eyes seeing the same structures and layouts repeatedly and the bosses where worse, the amount of times the godskin bosses showed up was especially lazy. Also had some bosses just flat out go afk in the battle like the Dragonlord placidusax. Not a bad game, above average but the overhype is real
The best open world game since the witcher 3 and zelda breath of the wild !!!
don't believe the negative reviews.. game is running smooth on my xbox s ..the world is great and all you would want from a game like this.. from software nailed it, this is game of the year content and absolutely flawless.. of course you should like dark souls or bloodborne as the game mechanics are the same.. if you are not into that search for something else but if you are this will be pure gaming heaven
Awesome game. Just finished it last night. Hope to see more from FromSofetware….
Amazing game. The open world is absolutely huge and each area has a distinct personality all its own. I haven't played a game in so long that has me wanting to keep playing, even after 140+ hours. Yes, it can be quite brutal for newcomers who have not played a Souls game but do a bit of research and you'll be fighting bosses like the rest of us. Don't be shy on using your ash spirits or summoning randoms to assist. Congrats to From Software on an amazing, one of a kind experience.
amazing game best of fromsoftware yet. Im curious what will be there next game after this succes.
I don't like this game, this game same like the other Souls gamee, the combat is meh, can't swim, i hate this game
I didn't know what to expect from the game since I'm not a soul lover, but I really liked this game, one of the best in recent years.
I am not going to lie this is my first dark souls style game I am about 20 hours into it and I can honestly say I cannot stop playing for the life of me from reading stupid messages saying beautiful sights and fighting bosses that are way too difficult I can't get enough it makes me want to play all the other games
Fabulous game !. GOTY 2022!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
No story, boring combat, copy paste dungeons, lots of grinding. I don't understand how the critics gave this game 10.
Loved the game, but lost all my 40 hours of progress because of a stupid bug
Wow. Make more. The scale of this is what DS was missing. Buy this. Play this.
After a rough start on xbox side of things, this game is now a true masterpiece. Definitely as of writing this in March is the GOTY and probably will be top contender come the end of the year still. Though the game doesnt hold your hand throughout like most open world MMO games it is balanced enough so that you can go out explore as much as you want and still have a sense of direction on the path to complete game via sites of grace placed throughout the massive world. With dangers around every corner and bosses ranging from small to towering giants this game has it all, the added ability to play with your friends and explore together is a much loved bonus. Because sometimes (most times) you'll find yourself needing that extra hand to help defeat a boss or dungeon. No friends to play eith? No worries elden rings also gives you thr ability early on to summon spirits to your side to help you fight and defeat enemies as well as summon random players from other worlds into yours to help, along with you being summoned to theirs if wanted. In all this game really dies have it all. And will leave you wondering what's next throughout as you rise your steed around slashing or using magical abilities to decimate hordes of enemies.
Optimization is too vicious. I7 10700K + RTX 2070 SUPER. When I fight with the boss, I don't get 60FPS. It's really a tremendous optimization. I can't believe it's a 2022 game. I don't support 21:9 monitors and 144Hz! The server has many errors. Multi-play is often disconnected!
This game is NOT accessible to everyone despite what the paid reviewers have said. I should have known as most content creators are just looking to get paid, not actually be helpful in any way. I had some experience with From games going in. I did almost beat the base game Dark Souls 3. I did play a bit of Bloodborne. So it’s not like I came in blind or unsuspecting. But watching footage and listening to “reviewers” say this game is accessible gave me hope that maybe this would be a more fun version of the previous titles I played through. Nope. This is just as painful as any other souls game. And what’s worse is I convinced a friend to pick it up thinking that and he had zero experience with these kind of games and basically ally wasted $60. I’ve put around 30 hours into the game. I’ve over-leveled myself because I just wanted to experience the game and the world in a more casual fashion. I don’t care to be a pro at this game. The open world is fantastic. It’s one of the best open world maps I’ve ever seen. Extremely dense. No place is the same. Packed with stuff to actually find and see. It’s filled with caves and dungeons and open world bosses everywhere. I can’t even count the amount of enemy types. So the world, the combat, the exploration, are all top notch as usual. But it’s brutal out there. I often find myself dying still in a few shoots to almost anything. Arrows and rocks are buried from across the map from enemies that will destroy you. Trying to get out of combat just to use your map again is tedious. I guess I expected the open world part to be more casual and to have a decent way for leveling but this is not the case. Glitch farming methods are the only real way you can even level in this game and it’s no wonder everyone cheeses them. Questing is absurd. I understand and accept that this is how From does it. I’m not here to try and change it. But doing quests is insanely confusing, and I just end up watching guides because I don’t want to spend hundreds of hours and multiple play throughs to do them. Many quests can be missed. Bosses themselves haven’t been too bad depending on play style. But again, I over-leveled with a broken farming method and play a Mage so I’ve got range and a general OPness to me. But even at that you still die in a couple shots if not careful. So anyone who thinks they can over-level to the point of 1 shoting bosses or tanking all their attacks will be let down. I hate when gaming companies do this — lure you into a false sense of being powerful. I think that happens here. Even though you can get more powerful in ER than any other game they’ve made, you won’t really feel it and still die a ton. I think a 7 is very appropriate for this title. There’s still plenty more to say, both good and bad, but I digress. It’s a good game. It’s not game if the year. It’s not game if the decade. It’s just a really solid game from a really solid developer. It’s just a game that’s not meant for everyone, despite how much I hate that statement and think it’s a terrible one. If your not a Souls player and lover, this game is not a entry to it.
This game is going to be the best game of this year, I strongly recommend playing it on Xbox Series X, the only platform where it does not give problems with lag or fps, from software did it again but this time better than ever, it brought together the best of all the video games they have released to date in one, with a beautiful open world as well.
Elden Ring is the game Souls fans have been waiting for. From the open world design, to riding into battle on Torrent's back, and the dark narrative woven through the world, this is a clear Game of the Year frontrunner that will have us all ensnared for a long time to come.
From its humble beginnings as a weird, brutally difficult new project that even its publisher had little faith in, the Souls series has grown into a vessel through which FromSoftware has helped change how we look at, and play, video games. And now, Elden Ring does the same for the Souls series itself. Years of gameplay refinements and revisions blend together with major franchise shifts such as the move to an open world and giving players far more freedom in how they set about saving said world. The result is a title that goes beyond anything Hidetaka Miyazaki and his team have given us before, both as a game and as an experience.
Miyazaki and company have delivered a fantasy epic that viciously scrapes and claws its way into the pantheon of unforgettably important video games like Castlevania: Symphony of the Night and The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild. Elden Ring is FromSoftware's most remarkable work so far and stands confidently as one of the greatest RPGs of all time.
Miyazaki and his team deliver one of the best video games ever made that elevates open-world, action RPGs to a whole new level.
Ultimately, Elden Ring revolutionizes the Souls genre for the better. Now I'm looking forward to seeing if expansions will be released to expand the story, but for now, I'm back to continuing touring its exceptional world.
For the Dark Souls fan this is a dream come true. For an open-world game this is a strong statement in a stale, oversaturated and by the book field of games. For a videogame, Elden Ring is a triumph right there with every iconic game that came before it. With unparalleled game design and a captivating sense of adventure, this is the best game FromSoftware ever made.
Apart from the summoning issue that is found when attempting to play with others, Elden Ring is a triumph. It looks great, it plays like a dream and it provides a world in which you can spend hours, just wandering about, picking fights.
Elden Ring is a crowning achievement for FromSoftware and undoubtedly the very best gameplay experience they've yet delivered - and that's really saying something given this developer's incredible back catalogue. The Lands Between deftly combine breathless open world exploration, stunning artistry, immaculate world-building and wondrous adventure with classic Dark Souls combat and dungeon-crawling, resulting in not just the best Souls game to date, but a candidate for one of the very best video games ever made.
FromSoftware has combined everything they learned while designing their past games and created something that will stand as a benchmark for years to come. Elden Ring is probably the most accessible game in their Soulsborne series, but it is very difficult. This difficulty and the esoteric nature of their design isn’t for everyone, but if you like fantasy RPGs there is no question as to whether you should give this a try. The amount of enjoyment, excitement, wonder, and reward I have felt while playing this game is unmatched. I don’t think I’ve ever experienced anything like it before. Elden Ring is easily the best game I’ve played so far this year, and I know it’s early but it should be in the discussion when talking about the greatest games of all time.
Elden Ring rewards your curiosity in many ways, be it items, runes or a pathway to another area, but mostly it’s a story to tell your friends when you are sharing tales around the bonfire. It does not force feed tutorials down your throat, but instead it leans far the opposite way by not telling you much at all and lets you explore and find things out on your own. There is no true quest log, no points of interest on a map or no arrows pointing you in the right direction, so there is a good chance you’ll miss some of the best caves and areas of the game. Because of all of this, Elden Ring is forcing me to find all of that out on my own and it is one of the most rewarding games I have ever played. I will continue to explore the Land Between for many hours to come. I’m just not in a hurry.
Elden Ring is an epic. With a beautifully designed open world, FromSoftware takes the Souls formula to new heights and crafts a journey that needs to be played.
Despite some annoying performance issues, Elden Ring is a masterpiece. The combat, enemy variety, exploration, music, and open world are top notch. I’ve been playing it daily across all platforms alongside other games all month, and look forward to doing that all year as I try new builds, help friends, and try to do everything I want in this triumph of a video game.
Elden Ring manages to draw the player into a fascinating world for many hours, with refined gameplay that fits perfectly with the freedom granted to the player. A sumptuous but imperfect work, which fails to completely overcome some of the historical flaws of Hidetaka Miyazaki's productions. Flaws that, however, can't diminish the scope of a masterpiece destined to leave an indelible mark on the videogame world and to set new standards for the souls-like and open-world genres.
Elden Ring is a real milestone for its developers and one of the best titles we've played in the last few years. The way it mixes the gameplay from Dark Souls with a highly refined exploration offers a really fresh take on the saturated open world market. Despite some notable technical issues, they don't put a stain in the great taste of what promises to be one of the games that leaves a mark on a whole genre, and maybe, the best game From Software has ever developed.
Elden Ring proves that evolution is a beautiful thing. It retains the brilliance and difficulty of its peers while moving the genre towards a new era. Purists may despise the new direction but I think it retains the best mechanics while offering so much more.
With its new open-world dimension, Elden Ring brilliantly fleshes out FromSoftware's already highly effective formula and offers Souls a spiritual sequel that is both ambitious and accessible. All the new features converge towards this last objective: the open world allows you to arm yourself more than ever with the epic and obligatory fights that the adventure reserves, without having the impression of walking around just to farm. And the best part is that it doesn't compromise the sense of accomplishment so important to the genre. Elden Ring is a complete, mysterious experience, where curiosity is tirelessly renewed by the feeling of discovering something for the first time. All with a sumptuous artistic direction, which makes you want to get lost, to explore. The title also welcomes new features that offer strategic choices in combat, without betraying their requirement. We only regret a slight lack of ambition for certain Legacy Dungeons, as well as the recycling of some assets and bosses. Overall, an exceptional title.
Elden Ring offers up a gorgeous open world that is enticing and exciting to explore, along with excellent combat variety, amazing bosses to fight, and intricate dungeons to tackle. It might feel a little familiar, but this could well be FromSoftware’s best game to date.
Elden Ring is a perfect experience for every souls veteran and its welcoming enough for the newcomers. It is a true evolution of the souls-like type of action RPG.
The sense of wonder and magic as you make your way around this mysterious and grimly beautiful world is truly extraordinary and while that does taper off somewhat by the time you reach the endgame and have seen more or less everything the game has to offer — several times over, in a lot of cases — but that doesn't detract too much from what will have otherwise been a truly remarkable adventure. Souls haters shouldn't fall for the rebrand as they'll just get burned again — Elden Ring is very much 'just' From doing what From does best, this time performing its greatest hits on the biggest stage to date. And what a wonderful thing that is to witness.
Great game for people wanting to start playing this genre of game, if it gets too hard at the start you can explore the areas around you and come back to where you were stuck after leveling up and exploring and find it easier.
Do NOT buy Shadow of the Erdtree... The base game is all you will need. Less is more. Trust me
This game is just absolute peak. There are no words to describe whow good this game is.
That Pretty great! Get my Trophy! love Bloodborne.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Love it, everything about it. It changed my perspective in video games in general. It is truly a masterpiece.
Just relentlessly punishing until you hit level 40 or so. Seems to pride itself on not explaining basic things, like, what the icons mean or how to avoid being poisoned. It discourages you from continuing playing, and rewards you for accepting the abuse. You won't "get good" at the game, the game literally just gets easier. It especially gets easier if you just google how to do things. For example, the first boss can be beaten handily if you find a specific NPC, talk to them, then press a secret button on the ground summoning them to help you. How would you know this was even possible without googling it? The story, if you can call it that, is very immature and hackneyed. I would review it but there's not really one. Find the shards of the triforce I MEAN the Runes of the **** Elden Ring. Why do you want to get the ring back together? No idea. Why do you want to be "Elden Lord?" Don't WORRY about THAT, OKAY. The graphics are terrible. Everything looks the same. You will get lost because this section of the cave or castle looks exactly like the section you were just in, and you're not sure if you've been here already. Two of the bosses look exactly the same, and they are called like Morgoth and Mirgott or something. No, this is not Bowser, this is Bow-zere, his eviler french cousin. The game is kind of poorly assembled. * There will be a big thing that pops up that says YOU DIED like.. three seconds after you die. You will be wondering whether you died or not and still desperately pressing buttons because sometimes there's a smidgen of life left in you. * If you go to a shop and buy armor, you have no idea if the stats are better than the armor you're wearing. Final Fantasy figured this out in like 1998. * I can't imagine what the game is like if you use spells a lot, because the guys who teach you spells are just randomly sprinkled on the map, and sometimes they leave their spot. * There's no in-game way to keep track of the quests you're doing (unless you google everything). I guess it would strain credulity for your character to use a pen and notebook, yet summoning a transparent dragon's head to breathe ice flames is believable. * XP is the same currency as money, which, it never felt like telling me? I'm like level 80 now and I have no idea if I upgraded the right stats. * Yet another open world game that starts with a character creator and face editor for someone who will never show their face because it's either behind a helmet or you're perpetually staring at their back. It asks you to choose a voice, but your character will never say anything except grunts and wails. And be sure to choose a player class, knowing nothing about how the game works at this point. * The game itself teaches you how to play it wrong. It shows you the moves at the beginning and then puts you on a horse and sends you out into an open world. If you're like me, you wander the open world not knowing where to go and you learn to fight on the horse. Then when you get to the castle you're supposed to go to, aaand they take away the horse. And now you ****. There is an immense level of detail and a lot of fun exploring to do, and the game actually becomes genuinely fun after a while. At that same point, it starts actually telling you where to go, going so far as to MARK ON YOUR MAP with a BIG RED SPOT where to go next. Why it didn't just do this at the beginning is beyond me. If someone gave this to you as a gift, sure, play it. Don't believe the hype. If you bought it and got stuck with it, kill some guy named Darrell and get his 'bloodhound's fang' and sneak around places you're not supposed to go to upgrade it all the way. This is the closest thing to easy mode.
This is the greatest video game ever made and I can't think of a close second. Anyone who says otherwise is either too young to understand or a philistine. 10/10.
Good graphics but a very stupid storyline and a very stressful gameplay.. it cant be called a game because it takes the fun out of gaming. loads of better things to do and games to play with great combat system and srpg stories
Great game, but just was not for me. I just don't understandwhy someone would do this much work and make it so hard to discover it.
Bad game hard and devs don’t care about it and only thing it has is combat which gets super boring after a while
I can't understand those who say 2022 god of war was right. God of war is never a bad game but it is very faithful to its essence. Elden ring is a game that feels both innovative and great.
The first souls game ever that I had the nerves and energy to finish. It's not bad, that's for sure. But like all the souls games it is insanely overhyped in my opinion. For a 10/10 open world game there are too many things missing. There might be a story, but after 60 hours of play time I have pretty much no idea of what was happening other than me becoming the "Elden Lord" after slaying about 40 bosses with the same jump attack strategy. Also I don't think it's an indicator **** single player game when I have to read ten guides online and watch multiple youtube videos in order to understand the builds or basically how almost anything in this game even works on a basic level. Would give this a 7/10 but will give it a 6 to counteract the crazy fanboyism and overhype from so many people here.
Phenomenal, the world is so big and there are so much to explore and endure, but the reward is always (like every soulslike) the biggest satisfaction.
Graphics gameplay story all are great and i got the game for cheap and it's worth more.
Got this game to play with friends, but the multiplayer allowed players to invade into your multiplayer and attack you. If I wanted a pvp game would have gotten one specially for that. As a single player its a good game but for multiplayer it total trash.
Masterpiece game, bad FPS on PS5. Unplayable if you played it on PC and are used to a certain FPS quality smoothness.
Masterpiece! Easily one of the most enjoyable games to be created In the past decade fore sure!
One of the best games, if not the best, in the Souls genre. Captivating and enigmatic story, by far an adventure that will remain with me. Varieties of incredible builds and bosses. The best.
This is the most disgustingly overrated game I've played in 25 years of gaming. It's a janky, dated, uninspired dark souls rip off - there are 10,000,000 games identical to this. The only reason anyone likes this is because Elon Musk told them to. It's a pointless, boring, poorly made, the graphics looks straight out of 2012 and the combat feels like **** compared to other dark souls rip offs like Wu Kong.
Elden Ring carries the "Souls" legacy into a visually-appealing open world that practically begs to be explored. The inclusion of the same tedious combat mechanics and clunky interface from earlier games is disappointing, but if you've never played one of FROM's artificially difficult hack-and-slash action titles, then ER is probably the most inviting entry point. Ignore the incoherent "story" and lack of helpful information in-game, crack open a wiki, and prepare to die many deaths before you find a playstyle that works for you. There is fun to be found in Elden Ring, but digging it up can take some serious effort, a varied approach, and all too many hours of repetitive game loops.
TLDR: Yes the game is amazing, with epic fights, a larger scale to its story and with really tough endgame bosses!This game is everything fans loved about the series but brought to the open world. The combat feels as good as ever, with quick responses to your inputs and nice flow and feeling of weight overall. With a variety of classes to choose from, and playstyles that suit every player this game can be as easy or as hard as you want it to be. From summons to spirit NPC ashes, you can choose whether to fight solo or with an ally. There is one bossfight where I definitely recommend using summons and that's the Godskin Duo. Now on the story side of ****'S MINDBLOWNLINGLY EPIC! Overall it makes you feel like you're rising up to the top becoming stronger and stronger, culminating in an epic final **** the negatives now...Some classes and builds are way better than others, making fights hilariously easy but again that's up to the player. I didn't involve myself in the PVP so no comments on that. A lot of assets are re-used but I kind of expected that in a game as massive as this. Lastly, a lot of the bosses in the late game are really hard, not allowing the player with a window of opportunity for a counter attack and with endgame damage stats, the fights become really hard and are a matter of patience. But overall I don't have anything major to say in regard to the bad aspects of the ****: The music in certain bossfights just gives me chills(Mohg, Lord of Blood cough cough)
Um... I ate my words. I previously really talked **** and disliked this game. But it gets really good, like really fun. Just a couple of problems. This game is NOT beginner friendly at all. I had to use guides to mostly play the game which sort of ruined the fun a bit for me, but it wasn't a super bad thing nonetheless. Good game, but improvements can be made.
You will spend 8 hours trying to leave the starting area and never get anywhere. I can honestly say this is the worst game I've ever spent money on and I can't say enough bad things about it.
I really wanted to like this game, but just 5 hours in all I can say is that I regret buying it (although I got it on sale, it still stings). - Story feels non-existent - Atmosphere is depressing - No music while you play - Progression is super slow - Graphics look old - Loot drops are 99% garbage - Controls and inventory management are poor - Crafting is pointless - Armour and Weapon upgrades don’t matter - Combat is slow and clunky - Open world feels empty - Game feels hard on purpose to mask that it’s not a fun game - Boss fights are fun, but that’s about it All you do is go around killing things to save up “Runes” (XP) to cash in for levelling up, and you never actually feel any stronger. I have 5 hours into it, watched a few hours of videos to see if I was “missing something” or “not playing it properly”, and can quite confidently say this game isn’t for me, and I can’t understand why it won GOTY and gets such high review scores. I guess games journalists just don’t represent me any more, given the last few years.
There's too much input delay. You'd expect the character to jump exactly when you press the jump button, but unlike any other game, they only start to jump after the button is released. Too bad!
Elden ring has good world design, tons of content, great customization, but really poor boss fights and mini dungeons that weigh it down for a solo player. If you enjoyed previous fromsoft games you’ll likely enjoy most of what Elden ring has to offer, especially early on. The World is just enormous compared to previous titles in terms of space and easily on par in terms of zones. The combat is very similar with new special moves added to allow for greater variety and speed. The zones are generally fun to explore (albeit the size makes the main open world zones tedious). The legacy dungeons are fun and interesting with branching and puzzles. Bosses are largely just not fun to fight. They are far too aggressive unless you use multiplayer/summons which tend to make them easier than you would like. This leads to you either spending time waiting out combos to look for a tiny opening window where you don’t have time to use most interesting skills or to hit them while their attention is on someone else. The latter doesn’t give much satisfaction to many players. Mini dungeons have the same problem as chalice dungeons from blood borne. They all feel samey and boring with a few exceptions. NPC quest lines are enjoyable, but difficult to find and follow in the open world. Overall there’s a lot to enjoy, but I personally feel like the game drags really badly the later you get with boss fights getting more frequent. Each successive one just wears rather than brings joy. I’ve not gotten this feeling from any other fromsoft title, nor many of the more popular Derivative titles. In the end you’ll get your money’s worth of fun and playtime, but may end up with a bitter feeling about it.
MASTERPIECE. This is FromSoftwares best game and it’s not even close. Elden Ring offers a huge world all for you to explore, when you explore you may find one of the 414 weapons in the game or one of the 141 different **** Elden Ring there are over 300 bosses and also the most difficult and best designed bosses in fromsoftware history.
This game isn’t a master piece like everyone says. It has a few BIG problems. For example your character moves like in demon souls, yet the bosses move like it’s sekiro. (Which by the way sekiro is objectively THE best fromsoft game. It has a focused and rewarding system (the parry system) along with a new element, the grapple. If I took every fromsoft game and stripped the color from them and put them side by side you would not be able to tell the difference. Except sekiro. now the next problem is the game doesn’t actually improve at all? It seems they spent three years just making the map? Lmao. I was expecting something as unique and as fun as sekiro OR something as refined as lies of p. LoP is also the second best fromsoft game, that’s not made by fromsoft. The only really negative reviews on the game are just saying it’s more of a “refinement not an improvement” or that “they copied fromsoft” and fromsoft copied ninja gaiden. What’s your point? that’s exactly what it is, and it does it extremely well. Lies of p takes Essentially the best thing from every from soft game and puts it in one game. Along with a more understandable story and its own unique theme and gameplay/ combat systems. I was expecting far more out of Elden ring yet it falls short unfortunately. I tried playing the game so many times and I really just tried to like it, but it’s simply a literal copy and paste of DS3. That goes for pretty much most fromsoft games. If you have played one fromsoft game, you basically played them all. And unfortunately they are the most toxic players in video games if you try to tell them that they’re buying the same game every year like COD, they will gang up and you and start **** on each other lol. Proof of this is the success of lies of p. round8 studio made a game far better than pretty much anything put out by fromsoft and the only people hating were fromsoft ****. We all know if from soft put out lies of P they would be praising and **** it off lol. They buy the same game every year. Then turn around and make fun of Ubisoft and Activision….. The irony lol. In Elden ring especially Malenia. she has a certain move set called the waterfall dance or something like that. She and a few others are a perfect example of poorly made game decisions and boss moveset. That certain movement is CLEARLY A copy out of sekiro and meant to be parryied, yet it’s not parryable. They essentially copied boss moves from sekiro, giving bosses, sekiro boss like movement and patterns. while giving the actual player dark souls 1 movement you see similar problems in one of the most recent call of duty games, And why copying things from other games doesn’t always work. In the newest Mw3 2023 they took over a decade old maps that is designed with positioning and slow movement in mind from the OG mw2 and ported it in a game where you get across the map in literally 4 seconds….. essentially destroying any actually positioning or strongholds on the map. That would be the main fight locations for players. And this goes for every map. Was really excited, expecting something NEW from fromsoftware like sekiro. Unfortunately this is what we got. Not to mention game looks like a early ps4 game or late ps3 game. The game also plays in 60fps on ps5, but for some reason the game looks like it moves in a choppy 40. Like it’s having microstutters or something. It’s probably their engine as it feels they have been using the same ps3 engine the whole time or something. Overall it’s not a bad game, but realistically it’s a 7-8/10
They say nothing is perfect, well Elden Ring is pretty darn close. This is the greatest game ever made. Not for the weak, only the strong will survive. A beautiful haunting adventure awaits you.
A less fun version of Breath of the Wild. World was fun to explore, but the map becomes cluttered really fast. After a couple quests, this game just feels like a chore, with really unbalanced enemies. Sad to put this down, because everyone else seemed to like it.
After 550 hours i can say its the best videogame ever made. ️️️️️ So many ways to play it.
Deserved GOTY for 2022 for sure. It is definitely the best game so far this decade. The hidden story, the addicting gameplay and overall just the mechanics are so good. I love how this game is like Dark Souls but also more adventure-y. The exploring part is my favorite part of this game, if you choose to just explore that one random part of the cave, you might just find an interesting piece of lore about the world of Elden Ring, or if you choose to explore the dungeons that are the catacombs, you will find other interesting pieces about the world. Overall, this game is the best of this decade, next to God of War: Ragnarok. Definitely an 11/10 in my books.
You are now experiencing one of things created in mankind, excellence so high that it ascends its niche. Elden Ring holy s tier.
DEFINITELY deserved GOTY 2022, and is also one of the best games ever made. FromSoftware for sure knows how to cook. If there was a Game of the decade award, then Elden Ring would probably win it.
Absolute Peak game, absolutely deserved 2022 game of the year and has hundreds of hours of gameplay.
this game is good and i would give it atleast a 6.5 cause of the beauty of this game the lore aswell the cool diffrent weapons if it hadnt this much propaganda this game is not even close to a masterpiece and this game literally is the definition of propaganda from streamers.Most overrated game of all time
eldenring is by far the best videogame I've played in a very long time and I feel the best from software game ever. The game is most definitely worth your money and the dlc even though it is hard is very fun too.
i initially got elden ring from my friend back in january, and like most people i got mad and quit after 1 session. when i redownloaded the game 10 months later, i gave it a real shot, and i just recently 100% beat the game on steam. this games lore is phenomenal, some of fromsoft's best. i loved my first playthrough so much, i did it 4 more times, and im on ng+5 with the same character with 111 hours of playtime. every ending was great (lord of frenzied flame included) and the questlines to get the individual ones were amazing. my only complaint is you dont get a great sense of direction through the game, with no quest bar or something to indicate where you need to go or who you need to meet. some could argue it adds intrigue to the game, but for me it just made it a bit more confusing. nevertheless, i had a wonderful time with elden ring and if its on sale or you're looking for a challenge, i implore you to buy it
Elden ringwas the missing piece in my puzzle while I had played FromSoftware games before I just couldnt bring myself to like them. Until this masterpiece released it had everything exploration,lore,variety and amazing level and character design. Of course by being an open world game it means that the Tarnished can explore almost every bit of the map making any boss easier by finding just the right gear. Truly my favourite game of all time with a masterful DLC to go with it. Recommend everyone to play it and experience the masterpiece that is Elden Ring
I waited long before buying the game and the DLC, I always thoughtit was overrated, and with too much hype around it. I was so incredibly wrong, that's by far the best game I have ever played, insane world build, amazing and challenging enemies, incredible weapons, armours, spells, and NPCs' interactions. 10/10
Elden Ring is a beautiful game that is well designed and filled a refined level of polish and care, there are many aspects of this game that the average developer would never even consider in terms of creating an open world of this scale and filling it with this many meaningful interactions, exploratory rewards and overall gameplay feel, however where they fell through was with the lack of idle animations. The player character (Tarnished) has no idle animation for when people walk away from the their controller although the game istelf is filled with a number of animations for the tarnished to be able to complete at the press of a button a lack of idle waiting animation to help characterize the tarnished or at least as a small flourish for the player is abysmal especially considering the fact that this game is filled with a number of small things that many would overlook in such a large game. WIth people going out of their way to design a mod for idle animations. Quite disappointed
Masterful. This is a mix of all souls games until toda, and undoubtedly works
Wonderful world and attractive game. You can’t simply just leave the world of elden ring until you finish the game 2 times at least (generally I am the type of gamer who’s not really fan of playing the same game again). This game is different from all previous fromsoftware games: even if you’re not a hardcore darksouls player, you can manage to level up your character and make your own journey in the lands between.
Early game review, will probably change it later I’ve never been a fan of soulslike games, even after playing ds1 and demon’s souls, and I’m having open world fatigue thanks to Genshin Impact. With that being said, this game is amazing. The overworld exploration feels clean, smooth and definitely not empty. The combat system looks complex at first glance, but after some practice you start to understand all the mechanics needed, and even though I died a lot of times by now I still think the game itself is not as hard as other games, and getting used to it is pretty easy. Definitely recommend.
It is, in my opinion, the best game available. I admit that I put off playing it for a considerable amount of time until my friend persuaded me to give it a try. Before I knew it, I had devoted more than 100 hours to the game. In my opinion, it is the best game ever created.
theres nothing to say really, its a goated game. Not many games comes close to this.
As someone new to the world of Souls games and returning to console gaming after years, I wasn’t sure what to expect when I picked up Elden Ring. To say I was blown away would be an understatement! This game completely immersed me from the moment I started. Its breathtaking design, expansive open world, and rich storytelling captivated me, while the intricate lore added a depth I didn’t anticipate. The challenging boss battles and harsh obstacles, though often frustrating, were equally rewarding and kept me coming back for more. Elden Ring is a masterpiece that I absolutely adored, and it has reignited my love for gaming. Excited to explore more Souls games in the future.
One of the most average games I’ve ever played. Fight mechanics are just dodge dodge dodge hit. Overhyped by community, fromsoft fans can’t take any criticism.
When I first tried this game it was just a normal game for me, but that was only because I had only explored Necrolimbo, but then, I returned after some months and I started exploring all the game. I'm fascinated with this game, it's incredible, the boss fights make you feel like a warrior and when you finally kill the boss you have been fighting for hours or even days, that's a unique feeling.
Elden ring is good but not really all that great. In a lot of ways it feels like an extended version of dark souls 2, not saying that dark souls 2 is bad, but that it overstays its welcome. Art direction is hit or miss, sometimes when you stand in edges of hills and mountains you can see a beatiful world, but when you are actually going trough it there is so many problems, not just that it can seem sameish, but that it has a lot of unecesary things such as chromatic aberration, bad upscaler (ps5), motion blur, film grain (or its the upscaler); all of this things also make other bad effects, such as ghosting, and it has 1000 problems with illumination, halo effects on many cirmustances, progresive shadow generation seen in Fallout 4 on the console versions, weird lighting issue where on the center of the screen there is more detail/correct detail whereas left or right there is less. The drawing distances also are laughable and really breaks the inmersion, specially so on liurna and limgrave. Art is there and its good but its shadowed by many decisions, issues, technical problems and player guidance Gameplay wise, its the same thing as in dark souls but with a few things that i dislike. Shields shouldnt have the counter attack thing only when blocked, it makes many battles trivial, i would have preffered that you can just normally attack back, simple but nice. A lot of the cool spells are actually bad and a lot of the boring ones, such as throwing a big rock are infinitely more useful than transforming into a 3 headed dragon that unleashes a breath of fire everywhere. Jumping in combat is way too inconsitstent, sometimes you can jump the attacks, other times you cant. Exploration wise, i miss the more unorthodox ways of parkouring seen in dark souls 1, here there is a couple but they arent nearly as good and creative as other games seen in fromsoftware. The open world fails to guide most players truly properly and some places are way bigger than they should be, making them confusing and neverending, especially a problem if you are a guy which likes to explore everything for loot, but you are met with like 15 ways to go each going into 4 ways, making me stressed about losing something. Personally i did not have issues with difficulty, if anything it felt on the easier side of general games with very few exceptions (such as malenia), many people say about a difficulty spike, which i probably did not experience because of my kind of completionist playthrougs, but can be an issue if you dont have the eye or patience or time. Bosses and general enemies are the most dissapointing thing honestly, they have good variety and all, some designs are good but the choreography which i really loved in souls saga, here it doesnt make any sense, most attacks are completly useless to do in real life, why would you expose yourself for like 5 seconds before attacking, you want to be knocked down?, this happened in the souls saga but not nearly as much as here, it wasnt the norm but it is here now, its artifially difficult. Weapon variety is nice, only issue is that there should be an easier way to compare lower level weapons to higher level ones, more ways to test it without sacrificing 70 thousand materials just to see if its better or not Lore is good, story itself kinda ****, its poorly told to the player and you have to make more of an effort to understand, in DS3 each piece of clothing and every weapon had a good enough description to tell a lot of whats happening, here most weapons descriptions are: swords, used by the guy you just killed. Some npcs where actually interesting, most where kinda lame and you never really know anyone intentions, nor whats trully happening in the world nor who is good or bad, it doesnt help that english translation was bad enough to make a good character seem like a genocidical creature. Overall its not bad, if you loved souls you will like this, it isnt necesarily hard, and if you **** a lot in games, you can use all the help you can get which is actually the point of the game.
One in a million years game,have 900+ hours,wish i could play for the first time again and feel like a kid .. Everything was spectacular from Art, Music, cutscenes,million weapons every class playable compare to previous ds game where knights are way to go ,from mechanics like giving flask back rewording exploration,not run back to bosses across whole map,simple phenomenal game
Elden Ring is a open world game based on the gameplay of Souls games. Playing as a custom character, you'll be thrown inside an huge world full of mysteries and dangerous enemies.With an action gameplay and using mostly white weapons and magic, you'll have to explore the map, upgrade your character, survive and find and kill all bosses, all with little to no guidance from the game.Every fight and every enemy could be quite challenging, and dying and repeating over and over the same fight or dungeon is something that's supposed to happen pretty often. Anyway, any death is usually caused by some recognizable mistake and repetition after repetition the player will understand how to avoid them and succeed. The difficult can be annoying and frustating for some player, but at the same time, it's also what makes the game very satisfying. There is no difficulty setting, but the game gives to the player several tools that make the game easier, like evocations, buffs etc. and learning how to use them will make the game easier for non-hardcore **** open world is probably the most amazing feature of the game, it's huge and full of things to do, of places to explore and of secrets to uncover. The curiosity to see what's in the next area will probably never abandon you, since the world is very varied and interesting. Personally, after exploring the first area and the first legacy dungeon, I was really excited to explore the rest of the game and see what was there, and I must say I was not disappointed (except maybe for the last region).Does this game also have flaws? Yes, absolutely: the gameplay is repetitive, just explore the dungeons and kill enemies. The plot is obscure and can be understood only by reading it from the internet. Sometimes you won't know where to go, or why go somewhere. The side quests can be completed only reading a guide because they're few and not explained at all (talk with a character, now go in this specific place that you already explored and have no reason to go to again, and talk with him again to continue the quest). Most of the dungeons will give you rewards that you don't need (usually weapons that you cannot use with your build) and the most you'll play the game, the most you'll see reused content: same style of dungeons in each region, reused bosses or minibosses, a dragon in each region, etc. This content is still enjoyable but at same point you'll notice you aren't anymore encountering anything new. The worst offender is the last region of the game, which is pretty empty compared to the others, and I believe don't have a single unique enemy.Despite all this flaws, I believe the game is still a 10. The size, the cure of many details, the neat gameplay, the beautifulness of the game world, the fascinating atmosphere and the difficult but fair challenge make this game a masterpiece. Maybe it's not for everyone, but if you know you like this kind of games, Elden Ring is without a doubt one of the best games you can play.
I am not a hardcore fan of From Software. In fact, I loved Bloodborne and Sekiro but I've never been able to fall in love for Dark Souls series even if I love dark fantasy worlds. Elder Ring is the pinnacle of the artistic view of Miyazaki and FromSoftware and it's a Masterpiece. Period. They've been able to condese all the experiences of previous work in a gem of pure artistic value. Everyhting is magistrally conceived: artistic direction, music, level desing, gameplay, combat system, freedom for the player, lore, dialogs, everithing. The exploring experience is so rewarding and stimulating that everytime you face difficulties and obstacles you know that there will be a reward at the end. If you like FromSoft works and RPG you must play it, if you are new to them is the best starting point.
Elden Ring is a true masterpiece, a game of breathtaking beauty, rich in content and incredibly challenging. The experience is both rewarding and demanding, with gameplay mechanics that constantly push the player’s limits, while offering moments of rare intensity. While the progression can be tough and at times painful, each victory, no matter how small, brings immense satisfaction. After more than 150 hours of gameplay, there is still so much to discover, which speaks to the unprecedented depth of the Elden Ring world. FromSoftware manages to captivate and challenge its players while offering complete freedom of exploration. An essential game that redefines the modern RPG experience.
Words cannot describe the beauty and danger of this world. As a newbie to the souls series I didn’t know what I was getting into, but I was pleasantly blown away. The first steps into this world are breath taking and each player only experiences it once, when you first see the size of this world with the beautiful tree in the distance, while it is also surrounded by a torn and twisted world its very compelling. The thought of new comers to this game is usually: this is massive, because at every step of your journey in this game the world gets bigger and bigger often times that’s from a physical perspective but also the story tied in with it get more and more expansive as you go, everything has a a story, everything has a purpose. Now to the problems people have with this game, yes it is a long game and yes it is difficult and unforgiving and every turn can easily spell death, but even that tells a story about how dark this world is, it makes those times that you’re walking and taking in the scenery that much more special when you’re not dying. With the difficulty, fromsoft is known for their difficult battles and bosses, but Elden Ring does something incredible: there are many ways you can make the game easier, as a new comer I got stuck on the first important boss and it made me upset so I stopped playing for months, soon I came back and researched the game more, and found strategy and skill a thing that a lot of games lack, I learned how to upgrade and build my character, how to dodge and time my attacks. Yes it takes time and dedication, but giving up won’t make you any better. From a newcomer struggling with this game I changed the way I looked at it and now I have completed the game and beat the hardest boss plus the whole dlc, the reason I say that is because anyone can do it not just the diehard figure it out souls fans. If you’re lost get some help but try and figure it out before you jump to the internet, but if you need one single item to complete your build don’t comb the whole world for it, drop the ego and get help, the Elden Ring community is astounding; from lore studying theorists to hero’s that lend a hand to help other players beat a tough boss, and what brings us together is the victory afterwards, the messages of despair at the entrance of boss gates are met with messages of victory at the end of the boss and it’s all that more satisfying to be the one who did it. It’s okay if you don’t get it the first try, just don’t give up quickly. Lastly, the lore. The story telling in the game is amazing, there’s so many questions that are often times satisfying when they’re left unanswered so we can let our minds wander, every boss, every enemy, every item, every weapon has a purpose for being where it is and doing what it does, many enemies that you’ve seen in other places with have different powers or weapons due to the location they’re in or what they’ve been through, nothing ever gets old. In all Elden Ring IS a Masterpiece and I have never enjoyed a video game as much as I have enjoyed this one, it even disappoints me to see it not ranked higher on the list of best video games of all time. This game has changed gaming forever.
The ugliest game i ever play,this game is **** i dont even see a good piece in this game how can everyoneLike this game this is absolutely trash
Such an incredible game that just built off of dark souls 3’s combat and made it even better. The open world is vast and fun. Combat is amazing and the bosses are very well designed and exciting to fight. My only gripe is that you can’t just invade unless someone has either summoned an ally to aid them or has put on the taunters tongue (which few people do) so it feels like the odds are always stacked against the invader. However that is a minor gripe considering how great the game is and how much extra things they have given us in the patches such as the area. Big fan of this genre and highly recommended
Elden Ring is a dream come true for a long time Souls and Bloodborne fan. The landscapes, atmosphere, music, combat and enemies are all fantastically tuned and crafted. Elden Ring gives the player a sense of joy and reward when finally overcoming the challenge they are faced with, which is exactly what soulsborne games should focus on. The boss arenas do an excellent job of displaying how a character should be perceived as well as how they are they way they are with the music added as well on top pushes that feeling to an even greater level, a personal favourite being the Godskin Duo arena with it’s accompanying soundtrack. The lore is vibrant and at times does get confusing but the search for the truth of the lore reinvigorates another run through of the entire game time and time again looking for any further morsel I may have missed. In conclusion Elden Ring has brought together several elements that show a dedication and passion to their respective departments as well as the tenacity to not leave until it was almost perfect. This is what games within the next couple of years should strive to be like in terms of quality and polish.
I bought this game on the day it released, having been anticipating it for years. I still to this day have no beat it, and yet I’ve never once uninstalled it from my PS5. Why? Because the game is a work of true love for gaming, expert craftsmanship, and has one of the most beautiful, terrifying, and immersive worlds ever created. But that world is gigantic, it is harrowing, it is intimidating. I go back to Elden Ring every so often, usually a few times a month to try and FINALLY chip away at it and beat it (finally uninstalling it will be a personal holiday for me), and I’ve loved every single second of it. I’m in the latter half of the DLC now, and once I finish that, I’m fully set to fight the final boss in the main game. I’ve platinumed it up to this point, which I NEVER do for games. After 300 hours, I can safely say it’s one of the greatest works of art ever created.
Best souls game. Beatiful world. Combat is peak. Nothing bad to say. 11/10.
An outstanding game from beginning to end. From Soft has perfected the "souls like" formula and injected it into a fully realized open world.
One of the greatest games of all time. Elden Ring morphs and evolves the beloved combat of Dark Souls into an entirely new beast altogether.
This is one of the best Souls games in the world. From the world's lore to the gameplay or even the sound design, it's all amazing. It's an 11/10 game. I've played it 2+ times; that's how good it is.
I already had souls fatigue by the time I finished the DLC of Dark Souls 3 so it certainly didn't help that Elden Ring is essentially Dark Souls 3 with a jump function and a janky horse set in an open world . Said open world is HIGHLY overrated because it's mostly filled with crap bosses and crap dungeons that get recycled often . Can you skip them? Not really because without a guide you won't know where essential items or weapons are and many times they are hidden in these dungeons or they are given as rewards . Speaking of which good luck completing side quests without a guide . Boss fights beyond a certain point are just annoying to deal with and most normal people will just abuse some exploit they read online in order to beat them
At times, looks amazing. At others, very boring. It always sounds fantastic, that's the greatest strength, but oh boy... It plays terribly. The pacing is slow with very, very little happening and when it does, it's boooooring. Not a terrible game, but not good either. Below average.
This game pulled me out of my “I don't want to play anything, I don't like anything” period.Great game, very beautiful open world, some locations deserve applause. Cool mechanics, and very happy to have a HUGE selection of weapons for all tastes. The game gives you huge possibilities in choosing a class, weapons, fighting style and so on. Good story (yes, yes, Souls-likes haters, it's there). And in general it is interesting to immerse yourself in this universe.Minuses: - Repetitive dungeons, at one point tired of going through them- Yes, there are the same bosses (but not so much)Passed the game on platinum, very satisfied.
10 score no need many word. Just enjoying this game, best Open world game i played ever
I give it a 9, but it is a 9.5/10. The game is absolutely phenomenal, with brilliant design choices for the huge open world. It can get a but repetitive with its reused bosses and enemies, however i can overlook that. There is just so many to do in this game and i can get lost for hours on end just exploring the world. The dungeons in this game are amazing and the main bosses are nothing short of amazing. The combat is also SO GOOD, just like any other souls game. I didn't really care for the story as i was playing because it is really not too interesting in my opinion. Thankfully i don't care about story in games so i still love this game so much. There are some flaws though, like the aforementioned repetition of content. The world can also feel a bit empty at times, but that's a problem for many open world games, not just this one. Also, you can over-level before fighting a boss, making the fight extremely easy. Overall, amazing game, would recommend.
This game never stopped getting bigger. Any one who doesn't like the game has a skill issue.
Fun despite the notable difficulty spikes. Constantly getting "unable to summon cooperator" issue is egregious however even with the games design around group play being even more accessible. Both issues cause long sessions to become frustrating.
For the people who have never played a “soulslike” game it can be tough to get used to in the beginning. But once you really start to understand the mechanics and gameplay this game will blow you away. So many amazing fights/builds/exploration its on another level. And lets not forget its replayability, not many games have that feeling that you just can hop on whenever you like and enjoy it (rdr2, monsterhunter etc)
Greatest game of all time! The only game close to it is Bloodborne, and Platinuming it was a joy!
Overrated as hell. Boring with pointless open world. The actual "souls" part are fun but its thrown into useless open world to appeal to the masses cause "mUh MaSsIvE gAmE*
Playing solo this game is 6/10. Playing with friends this game is 11/10. It's not that hard as they say. What Im missing is more story cut sceenes. I love the game world.
FromSoftware rules. MIYAZAKI is owning. This game is an ultimate evolution to Miyazaki's art.
One of the greatest of all time games for me. I platinumed the game it is great.
Contains pro-LGBTQ+ messaging. Therefore, the game is based. It's also a masterpiece. One of the only games that truly deserve a 10.
Thoroughly enjoyable for its combat, difficulty, character designs, atmosphere and unbelievably good soundtrack... However, to say that the story is a bit lacking is more than fair here.
Honestly my favorite game of all time. Open world that’s fun to explore and extremely fun boss fights. I enjoy the games high difficulty as well.
contender for best open world ever One of the most densely packed, visually impressive worlds eva, has my favorite area in any game. So many bosses and enemies, I'm still finding things after 100+ hours.
Elden Ring is an absolute blast! The world is massive, and exploring every corner feels rewarding. The combat is tough but super satisfying, and there’s so much variety in how you can **** only downside for me was the story – it’s hard to follow, and you miss a lot unless you really dig for it. I wish it was a bit more straightforward. But honestly, the gameplay more than makes up for it. If you're into challenging open-world games, this is a must-play!
10) Masterpiece - 9) Amazing - 8) Great - 7) Good - 6) Above Average - 5) Mediocre - 4) Below Average - 3) Bad - 2) Terrible - 1) Pile of **** - 0) Worst game ever contender
Elden Ring is a video game that lets you dive into a rich, fantasy-filled story and explore an expansive world. With deep customization options, you can fully shape your character’s abilities, gear, and appearance. The game combines challenging encounters with stunning environments, offering a personal adventure that unfolds as you uncover its secrets and lore.
This is the best game ever made if you don't play this you are autistic you have to play this amazing game with its beautiful areas
The best soulslike game ever and The best DLC ever. A must play for all hardcore gamers
I'm addicted to pain and suffering, this game is amazing for me 11/10, i cant wait to see what from software will create next!
Elden Ring retains the advantages of soul-like while reducing the difficulty. This game once again demonstrates FromSoftware's talent.
The best game I have ever played till date. Elden Ring has got everything - amazing lore, characters, weapons, ability to play multi-style, choices wich have consequences to end. It isplayer-friendly with all kinds of mechanics to help casual players - spirits, incantations, buffs, npc summons etc. All in all best ever!!
One of the best games of all time. Period! And most importantly: it's a reasonable challenge, which is a nice change of a pace from a lot of other recent video games. If you haven't played this yet, what are you even waiting for!?
Elden Ring is good, but not that good as a old SoulsLike made by FromSoftware. Open-World exploration is really fun and good, but at the same time it's the worst thing in the entire game. With Open-World you can easily farm XP and go to the places that your character is so OP or so Bad, so you will never know if you are going to good place in a good time, because if you miss something, some bosses will be dead on 2 hits.
Though there are some pain points and redundancies, I can overlook those flaws. The sheer scale, scope, and variety built into this game is a refreshing reminder that a few AAA studios still have the players in mind. A true masterclass in the open world genre and an excellent iteration of the Soulslike Fromsoftware is known for.
Holy crap this is the game of all time, there's so much to do and much to explore, gameplay and bosses are GREAT, lore and characters GREAT, Practically everything is great. The best part is going in this game blindly not knowing where to go and you find a weapon you like and use it until you find ANOTHER one that you like, then you explore and reach new places, people and enemies, its one of the most immersive games ever made with a great community too, for the first time you play its not a game, its an experience that won't be replicated for a while.
PEAK GAMING, Elden Ring is a near perfect game almost everything is too much to speak about. Only flaws are its terrible online co-op system
One of the best games I ever played, a masterpiece, I was intimidated for a long time cause I never played a souls game before, and OMG what a game, I invested over 400 hours between the base game and dlc , from software is my favorite studio right now
Played 100 hours of the game and Haven’t been bored since game design is perfect graphics perfect gameplay perfect combat perfect
The magnum opus of From Software. Opening that door to Limgrave will forever be etched into the minds of every Elden Ring fan forever. As will waking out into the Gravesite Plain in the DLC. Seriously an unbeatable experience.
This game has reignited my love for gaming. There's so much to explore, and I appreciate that the game doesn't over-explain things. You really have to learn, search, and discover for yourself. Even after digging through the web for tips, you’ll find that some players might uncover things at level 20 that you won’t stumble upon until level 60. It's a true masterpiece—definitely one of the best games I've ever purchased.
This game is perfect, is the best souls like game, There are so much bosses and a lot of differents enemys. The game in all things of a opend world games shoould have.
Elden Ring is FromSoftware's magnum opus. The game takes the outstanding worldbuilding, lore, and exploration to the next level with The Lands Between, leading to an experience with better and deeper exploration than almost any game ever created. The bosses are well designed for the most part, the vast variety of weapon builds lead to endless amounts of replayability, and the game has a crazy amount of polish from day one, all leading to an outstanding experience for any gamer.
So many fake reviews and still no one cares?! Clean it up like FF XVI. Thank you!
Ignore review deletion is not an option Ignore review deletion is not an option Ignore review deletion is not an option
Best From Software game Music is an orchestra Gameplay makes your heart accelerate Beautifully made graphics
This game distracted me from the war raging outside my window, which means something. Thank you Hidetaka Miyazaki and FromSoftware for the best adventure I've had in recent years.
Elden Ring is a perfect welcome to those who have never played a Souls game before and it's one of the best (if not the best) open-world games you'll ever play. Everything is done right: the exploration, the gameplay, the bosses, the environments, the lore and its characters, the music... It offers a great level of challenge but beating a hard boss is very satisfying (the difficulty is also "adjustable" to your own liking thanks to the rune system) and when you die you know it's your fault. Poured more than 90 hours in this masterpiece **** to finish it (explored all of the map) and every second of it was majestic. It is truly one of the best games of all time
I dont know what they were thinking… i played all the soulsborne games and some of them are one of my favorite games of all time. But this is just dark souls 2 all over again, so many clearly horrible game design decisions and annoying “gotcha” moments purposely made to be annoying, misunderstanding the original soulsborne philosophy. It looks great but the gameplay makes you question if the fromsoft devs have been replaced by some outsourced studio. The progression and exploration is full of repetative, copy pasted trash, most the game is just spent running around empty spaces, most bossfights are horrible compared to dark souls 3, etc.. i dont know how this got released, very disappointed.
I played Elden Ring when it first came out, and I can say that this game is incredible. I spent around 100 hours on my first playthrough, but I never got tired. Even when I replayed it, I kept learning new things. Right now I'm playing the DLC, and I'm loving it so far. It's like I'm playing Elden Ring again for the first time. One of the best games I ever played.
I absolutely love Elden Ring; it’s the most fun I’ve ever had in a game. The open world is massive and full of secrets, with incredible bosses that keep me on the edge of my seat. The combat is fast, challenging, and so satisfying when you finally take down a tough enemy. I love exploring every corner, finding new weapons, and building my character. Elden Ring is pure excitement—it's an adrenaline rush every time I play!
Damn near perfect. I can only wait to see what Miyazaki considers his perfect RPG.
Best game ever! Never disappointed by From Software. The game is so large that it worth every single penny
I love this game - the open world, the combat, the lore - it's so fun. If you run up against a challenging boss, you can explore elsewhere, level up and comeback later. They hit this one out of the park.
true masterpiece of soulslike game! this is the new era of gaming,perfect bossfights and exploration
Despite the emptiness of some place in the map and identical parts, it is a ultimate version of a soulslike game.
Gameplay is really nice. There are plenty of builds to try with tons of skills to use. Plenty of things to do, a lot of different enemies to fight, a huge world to explore and a million ways to die. Can be really annoying due to the difficulties you are going to face and if you are not ready to keep on trying you won't have fun. Story is nothing special from my point of view. Adding quest tracking (just a pin would do) at some point in the future on a soulslike game would be nice tho.
It just another dark souls copy and paste,with a different open world which is okay,bosses are underwhelming and it was just tastless and flat For me,i dont care If you say skill issue,beaten The game
Probably my favourite game. Everything is perfect. Took a while to get into it but when it did, absolutely incredible.
The grand culmination of the souls series crafted to near perfection. Such a versatile game and gameplay it’s grand adventure that has secrets and treasures packed in every nook and cranny. A must play!
Very good but Ranni you didn'thave to kill Godwin and tarnished you betrayed me why give all those dearoot if are going to kill me
Amazing game and a genuine challenge. My Soullike favorite. I will visit this game so many time more
"Elden Ring" is a masterpiece of open-world design, blending FromSoftware's signature challenging combat with a vast, visually stunning world. The freedom to explore and discover at your own pace is one of the game's greatest strengths, and the sense of adventure is unparalleled. The variety in enemies, locations, and bosses, especially in the early and mid-game, keeps the experience fresh and exciting. However, after reaching the capital, the game starts to lose some of its momentum. The pacing slows down significantly, with the map feeling overly large and increasingly empty. Recycled enemies and bosses, particularly in the later areas, feel like reskinned versions of earlier encounters, reducing the sense of discovery and excitement that defines the earlier parts of the game. These issues lead to a less engaging endgame, where exploration begins to feel more like a chore than an adventure. Despite these drawbacks, "Elden Ring" remains a deeply rewarding and immersive experience overall. Its incredible world design, challenging combat, and the thrill of exploration still make it one of the best action RPGs of its kind, even if the post-capital sections could benefit from more variety and tighter design.
Yeah I hate this game, first off, no difficulties, look I get it, it is based on Dark Souls, BUT, this game is too hard, I died to a bird multiple times, A BIRD. it is dumb to die from a bird a bunch of times, but this is not the only reason why I hate this game, why do people love this game, it ****, boring storyline, and, there was better games in 2022, that was definitely better than Elden Ring, people be on this game for hours and hours, but a person
This is what a true masterpiece game should **** is what every gamer wanted. An open world like no other..i am 300+ hours in and there are things which i have still **** lore, the bosses the exploration, the music everything is an experience to behold
A good game for that is very difficult and does not suit everyone They only fit fromI love very difficult games
It an open world Souls like, it's the definition of grand and epic. Not much to say but the bosses could've been better, and the open world lacks the replay value of their other titles. Shadow of Erdtree is a great dlc aswell.
I was skeptical about this game, once I managed to finish Bloodborne (I had a lot of fun) but I had more time for myself. At the moment, I'm mainly focused on the story and easy and accessible gameplay (i'm 42, wife, two kids;). But this...doesn't fulfill anything in the above sentence, it's different. I don't know much about the plot, and the game is difficult, but it's addictive as hell. Beautiful world, great combat and guess what, you can choose the difficulty level, which makes it easier due to the open world. All you need is the right approach and the use of facilities (ghosts) added by the creators. Don't be afraid to start the adventure, it's worth it, don't give up and you will be rewarded. This is one of the best games I have ever played.
I love this game! The atmosphere and design. Boss battles and the open world are very very nice! Miyadzaki thx
An amazing evolution on the proven souls formula. Spectacular art and lore once again combined with an engaging and challenging combat system.
Honestly Elden ring might be my favourite soulsborne game simply due to its openess, if you get frustrated you can just mess around the open world till your ready far easier then other soulsborne games and if your a new player this is the game id say to start with, bosses are intresting and very satisfying to kill, all the skills are intresting in some way, and the story is actually pretty engaging. so yeah enjoy it.
I found it funny that the only game I gave a perfect rating to... has no written review. So here you go - I am almost through Journey 8 (8th time through the main game), and have beaten the DLC twice now. This game STILL entertains on a weekly basis - from invasions, to co-op, to collecting and leveling up weapons... it's the cream of the crop. I got the platinum trophy years ago, and I still get excited to play this game. That speaks volumes. Not flawless, but definitely closer to a 10/10 than a 9.
Unprecedented freedom of spatial and chronological evolution in breathtaking dreamscapes with memorable epic battles.
Awesome game. I don't think I need to say too much about it. What I do not like about it: Difficulty. Yes, many say this has to be but I disagree. However, after some time you tend to like some of the hard battles. For example, the fight against Malenia really makes fun and you think about making this harder for you. In the end it is all about what Level you have. So if you waste enough Lifetime farming runes, you can enter easy mode. This is not really good. Second thing I do not like is the Quest mechanics. You can easy miss something. A little bit more info would be nice. Apart from this, the game is really awesome. To me most important and best thing is the Level design. Without spoiling I just can say there is a lot to explore! To me this is clearly a must play game.
this game is awesome, the only problem is that it is really empty, the map is full of trees and mountains, the difficulty is normal, and if you take the time to explore, you will find garbage basically, worst game of from software, but, not a bad game tho
one of the best games of all time. It is crazy how good quality these FROMSOFTWARE games are getting. Great entry point in the dark souls seiries
Stages of playing elden ring Stage 1: getting the game Stage 2: dying to tree sentinel 100 times Stage 3: Rage quitting Stage 4: come back 5 months later and defeat tree sentinel Stage 5: beat elden ring Stage 6: look for a game as good as Elden ring Stage 7: Giving up looking
In my short 15 years of life i played video games alot, and it was fun. no game has made me crave coming back to it or be invested in the story, That was untill i booted up Elden Ring for the first time, even though the games i've played might have been limited, nothing i've playedever compares to elden ring, i've never been as invested in the story, or had this much fun with gameplay ever. This is a cannon event for a man and he must play through it.
There is a reason why this game is GOTY 2022, the most awarded video game of all time and widely considered to be one of the greatest games of all time, if not the greatest.
The game map is very messy, the parry mechanics are useless for almost nothing, so there's plenty of extra, they say that it is the most accessible game from software but it is still just as annoying as their other games, you have to see it with a guide to progress. There is a lot of imbalance in the objects, some that serve much better than others, it would have been better if they only added the necessary ones and not added the others. IT IS NOT WORTH BUYING THE GAME IF YOU ARE A PERSON WHO HAS NOT PLAYED A FROM SOFTWARE GAME
Amazing game, combat is fun and satisfying 9 for its combat alone. HOWEVER, animations are ass, if you know you know, and whoever was in charge of damage scaling by enemies just didn't show up to work. 9/10
A good game with a wonderful and rich world ruined by an absurd difficulty that at some point makes it very difficult to continue wanting to explore or play because it does the opposite of enjoying it.
This is one of the most amazing games I have ever played, and it always gives me the motivation to continue to explore. The map exploration, numerous items and wonderful story are the charm of this game.
A great game with some very questionable design decisions on the boss department. Overall a very positive experience.
A stunning work of art, featuring vast, intricately designed maps, a distinctive artistic style, and diverse gameplay. You'll easily find yourself immersed in this world for hundreds of hours.
One of the best games ever made. This game inspired me to get DS1, DS2 and DS3
One of the most frustrating but best games ive ever played. The level of skilled required to even beat a small npc is insane but the reason why i kept playing even more. Its like an addiction, the more i died, the more i played. The more bosses i defeated, the more i played. When i beat Radahn after 59 tries, it was a better feeling than when my girlfriend wears lingerie and not on her period.
This work only has a score of 8.1. I feel that the fragmented plot has discouraged many plot enthusiasts, making it difficult for people to immerse themselves in the story and simply challenge the boss. This game mode will definitely filter out some players.
It's a terrible game, the bosses are so poorly designed, and it's very torturous to play.
Total garbage. The community is very toxic and if you play with friends you will get invaded every 5 seconds and get T-bagged just because your not good at pvp, also the bosses are completely unbalanced, there is a difference between "getting good" and the boss being objectively unfair. The world is not revolutionary at all, in fact it might be even worse then games from a decade ago, also the graphics are awful for a game that game out in 2022, and the game is locked at 60 fps ON PC. People say the games great because there is so many bosses but most bosses are reused and same with many other things. Overall elden ring is trash game which is overrated and is just a dopamine simulator for most people when they kill a boss.
It features excellent artistic design and well-established, mature gameplay. However, it also has some long-standing flaws. Overall, it remains an outstanding work.
Simply magnificent! this is the word that defines Elden Ring. Fantastic exploration, incredible soundtrack and spectacular gameplay.
This game is awesome in almost all and every aspect really the only negative thing is that the game is too punishing, large and big and personally i do not prefer open world
Too hard to play and the story doesnt aline. While the playability is okay os definetely not to enjoy the story.
Very good game, it may be hard but that is whatit's making this game enjoyable and fun
This game is one of the best open world games of all times adding experiences for new souls player and old souls players and the amount of content will keep you busy to say the least
1st attempt to play this game didn't sink in when it released, im not a fromsoft fan. 2nd attempt now that I have 150 hours at level 80 I feel comfortable saying this may be one of the best games ever made. It doesn't feel like it has repetitive game play, boss battles are extremely hard but I just go and level up for a hour then I'm good. I don't know why exactly this game is so good but I can't stop playing it. Beautiful looking game and voice acting is good. Story is bland as most fromsoft games but doesn't matter when game play is so good. This game is not for the casual gamer but for the nerd who wants to torture him/her self. Only the tarnished need apply.
Best game in the world. It reminds me a lot of the characteristics of Ragnarok in my opinion (I'm not saying the design and mechanics) such as having spells, equipment, the ability to improve equipment, bosses, level up, classes, etc... For me the game is impeccable in all aspects
Devs trying to persuade us that broken combat and movement mechanics are game features... I died more times falling from cliffs then from bosses, which are all the same. Game has absolute trash quest system with no tracking, if you don't use guides, you know **** about what is going on and where the NPCs are. Game is ok, but overrated AF.
One of the best games ever made just stole my heart, just as mario rpg and final fantasy 7 did in their time, i turned to this type of game with the original PS3 demons souls and stayed stuck with them ever since. An open world made for everyone not just for souls like games fans
Genuinely one of the best games I have ever played, it has its flaws but I can’t go back to other games after this. The boss design, build variety and combat is top notch. Honestly some of Fromsoftware’s best work.
100+ hours in the game and I have completed many of the previous From Soft Souls games (Demon Souls, Dark Souls 1-3, Blood Borne, and Sekiro). This is the first of these types of games that I was disappointed in it. I really wanted to like this one and gave it the best chance I could, but in the end, I do not like it and do not recommend it to anyone who has not already played a From Soft Souls game. For those that have played some of the other games, I can only recommend this if 1) you prefer to use a guide when playing these games (it is not crafted to be played and story understood without one for this From Soft game in particular); 2) you do not mind spending time running around on a horse/ goat trying to find locations and items; 3) are willing to spend a very long time on your first playthrough. To make this review short, the game improved on the combat mechanics of its predecessors. However, the open world made this game boring, the horse/goat disincentivized fighting enemies and bosses not in dungeons, the dungeons themselves were underdeveloped and lackluster in regard to enemy placement, branching pathways with little to no rewards. The weapons now all feel generic and there is a distinct imbalance amongst them. Is this a bad game? no it is not at all, its above average, with good gameplay and great graphics. Did I enjoy this game? No, unlike all of the other From Soft games I have played I found this one unenjoyable for almost the entire 100+ hr playthrough. The bright spots (boss battles) were completely overcome by horrible story delivery (an openworld is not conducive to DarskSouls style storytelling [i.e. finding NPCs, often in obtuse places, and talking with them]) and long, horribly boring stretches of running around on a horse/goat looking for things. I will not be playing through a second time, nor will I be investing in the expansion.
I played this for 80 hours to say with confidence that it is the same Dark Souls. The open world seemed boring and unnatural to me, no immersion. The RPG mechanics are terrible, they just affect the damage numbers. I don't understand why this game is considered difficult, rather monotonous. In short, it's a boredom, not a game, I regret that I spent so much time.
in the name of god ! can some one tell me the difference of Demon's Souls, Dark Souls I,II,III, Bloodborne, and this game ?????? Guys !!!those are all the same game. wake up !!! why are you insist on playing the same game with different titles and blindly giving it high scores !?!?!?!? the only thing you do in all those games are crawling on the ground like a fox, memorizing the pattern of the silly bosses, within most annoying atmosphere without a solid story. This game is the most overhyped and overrated game ever released . Not only for 9th gen but for the entire history of video gaming. Wake up !!!! This game is another repetition of the previous 10 titles they released. Worst part is, the game is deisgned to make fun of you by dying and dying again. Games suppose to be fun. this is only adding up your stress gauche as you keep playing it. poor graphics, poor story telling, poor gaming mechanics, poor story, poor sound, unfair surprise forcing you to play the god damn game all over again from the last check point you barely made up to.... And you call this challenging the gamers ??? No it is not... Literally this game should belong to gen 7 or older. no need to create false idols for our selves. I respect the sekiro game from the same team. ( it had different fight mechanics and at least a meaningful story backing the game up) but this ... this is a false idol. wake up....
Best game I’ve ever played, I use to be the bully who would call anyone who played this game a virgin and a loser. Until one day my brother happens to buy it, at first I was gassing him for playing that pathetic game. But then I just happen to grab the controller and play one day because of a heart break, After a couple of minutes of “fake playing” on it, I’ve actually started enjoying it that I’ve lost track of time that felt like minutes but were actually hours spent in it. It has been my favorite game ever since I firstly played it and I’ve never touched other game again since.
this is the perfect game. Just do it, this game makes you tarnish. It's worth the money
This game is so unfun and i would rather live under Herbert Hoover then play this again, this game is way to hard and the only people who play this have a big ego
Perfect: World and level design are truly fresh and astonishing , boss design is amazing and they feel realy good to fight against even though some of them might seem challenging. Lore is extremely rich and amazing, npcs questlines are realy fun and feel so fresh that theres no compair with other games. I completed the game, I'm about to start a new run and I'm still really excited about it. I'm new at fromsoftware's souls-like games but this game made me experience feelings I didn't have since I started playing videogames at my 9s. I highly recommend playing it, even though you may feel it unfair or hard please keep pushing through, you'll find out this is an incredible experience. Last but not least I desire you all tarnisheds the best of luck through the whole experience.
Honestly In my personal experience I really enjoyed Elden Ring. The Open World aspects and all the side quests along with all the stories, contents and character designs just made this the one of the best games Ive played.
if you think there should be a difficulty setting then your crazy. this is my first fromsoft game and it is good, hard bosses and when i get bored of dying to them i just explore or something and come back later
Needs difficulty settings for players of varying skill **** not buy shadow of rested for this reason and will hold for future from software going forward as well.Money thrown away by the developer.
Doesn't have the best bosses in the souls series but surely the fights are beyond fun, and the world of the game is huge and probably it's the best in gaming history
I started playing Elden Ring this month, but guys, what an incredible game, both in terms of story and combat and exploration, the game is gigantic with a lot of content, a lot of things to do and discover, frantic combat, a very difficult game, I was always afraid I had to start playing souls games, due to the difficulty, but this time I took the plunge and I'm loving every minute of the game.
honestly great. i really enjoy the difficulty, its not brutally impossible. usually takes a couple of hours to beat a boss and its really rewarding to finally beat a boss
Perfection. Not simply another FromSoftware msterpiece, this goes farther and beyond
Amazing game everyone should try it. Its one of the best souls games. And one of the best games of all time
Generally a good game unless you want to play with anybody else and then prepare for literal no joke every 5 minutes you're getting invaded.
You hate the game and then you love it, you die and then you succeed. Elden ring definitely one of the best games of our generation for any gamer that’s willing to challenge themselves for the satisfaction of becoming greatness haha
Without a doubt, the best Souls and best RPG I have played the last decade, I will never forget the amazing experience I had playingthis game.
It's thé best game ever bosses are insanely Fun and dettailed andthégame is just thé best
The game is frankly weak. can I start with the cons that outweigh the pros - empty open world copying and mobs from dark souls, although this is a new universe and game it is very difficult to follow the path planned by the developers because if you find the boss later, you will be too strong for him and will kill him the first time, an open world is not suitable for this genre quests, as always, in the games of this studio are rubbish, if in DS they could be completed intuitively, then 0.1 percent of players will pass without guides, you probably need to get into the head of babadzaki and find out where the quest character is standing this time there are few good bosses, 8 bosses come to mind, and it’s funny to even call the rest bosses lack of a normal local plot and the presence of global **** about gods and aliens advantages of the game + beautiful locationsa sea of various interesting weapons and spells 8 good bosses and I especially liked the capital, unfortunately this is the only location that could impress me
The single greatest game I have ever played, I achieved the platinum and have played over 10 times through now. Elden Ring is revolutionary in modern gaming. The influence it's had over gamers who previously had never touched a souls game proves my point, this game has potential to be game of the decade by a long mile. Boss design, beginner friendliness, environment design, soundtracks, gameplay, lore... Every aspect of this game earns this score. At least top 5 games of all time, and it's not 5,4,3 or 2. Fromsoft COOKED.
The game is really good but i dont think the open world was the way to go, to me it feels empty and often repetitive. I spent most of the time figuring out where to go next then when i finally found some location i found out im not strong enough to be there and i had to start finding another location that was suited to my level. I saw many people say that open world aspect is what makes this game great and that this is how openworld should be but i dont think so. BUT when you finally find a place where you should be the game f*cking slaps the legacy dungeons are awesome as are the boss fights(although some are longer then they should be and can get annoying).TLDR: You have fun in legacy dungeons then wander aimlessly to find another one being borded to death.Game with 10/10 potential ruined by open world
Every single boss, every single individual detail, and every single gigabyte this game takes up is incredible and amazing. I have not played Shadow of the Erdtree, but I already know that FromSoftware couldn’t have failed with it. The community is filled with amazing people like IMSH. Every boss is so creative, and the lore is amazing. Every single enemy in the entire game is fantastic, with complicated movesets that teach you to try and try again until you're able to finish that boss. It’s rewarding every single time, no matter how many tries it takes. It always feels incredible to defeat a difficult or easy boss. This game is fantastic, and the visuals are gorgeous. You deserved Game of the Year, and your DLC deserves DLC of the Year, if that exists. Great job!
Sadly, I can't know what I would think about the game if it wasn't hyped to god status. I can't believe anyone who rated the game above a score of 6/10 hasn't has a lobotomy recently. If your friend invites you over and let's you play the game in its entirety then it's a 6.5 at best for the first 70 hours maybe and then it just becomes tedious, frustrating and would better used as a torture device. If you bought the game and gave it more than 2/10, you have also got Stockholm syndrome gratis or got harassed by the fanboys who also gave half of their chromosomes for the game. Thegame doesn't provide and guidance which would be fine if it wasn't so incompetently designed that you 1000% fk yourself over enjoyment and immersion wise by exploring this which the game encourages to do. The bosses are not hard in a fun and challenging way but just frustrating to even look at. If any of you thinks I should edge to the fact that managed to defeat the boss (which was out of this world boring) and it started to run away at 30% to make the fight last 90% longer then you have to crawl back into a womb and grow a brain. I haven't seen a boss design this awful, and again, I could defeat all of them and even hitless when I didn't want to jump out of the window mid fight and just left my desk out of boredom. The only difficulty in this game is artificial, that being the awful camera and the degenerate programing behind however the game deals with inputs. There are more than 50 dungeons in the base game and none of them are unique besides legacy dungeons and even out of those, not many are fun. The amount of reused assets is depressing and tragic, should not be legal. Someone should tell Miyazaki that he shouldn't learn the definition of graphics from a playerbase that is more illiterate than a bag of potatoes. That is if he also thinks that the game has good graphics and not just decent art but I can't believe he doesn't use the players as toilet papers and laugh at them in the background for being so brainwashed zombies that they like literal **** on their plate if you paint it a different color. Cat Mario was harder and more fun than this ****.
While as a newcomer I had trouble "taming" this game, it has become my all time favourite. The world, the lore, the NPCs... everything was made for the players, for the enjoyment only which contrasts a lot with the rest of the industry. The DLC is basically a sort of second game in its own and is as well made as the base game.
Playing it again after 2 years and i wont change my opinion. Its a trash game really. After you grow up you really start to realize that all souls games are ridiculously overrated.
A masterpiece of my generation. More than 500 hours looking for every single piece of stone to read the descriptions. Amazing
Elden Ring features stunning visuals, from beautiful landscapes to detailed character designs and enemy animations.- The world of the Lands Between is filled with atmospheric locations, each telling a story through its design. Known for its challenging boss fights, Elden Ring presents players with formidable enemies that require skill and strategy to defeat. Each boss encounter is a test of the player's abilities, rewarding perseverance and mastery of the game's mechanics. Elden Ring sets a new standard for open-world action RPGs, offering a challenging yet rewarding experience for players. With its blend of challenging combat, rich lore, and vast world to explore, the game captivates players with its atmospheric gameplay and depth of content.
The only thing barring this absolute masterpiece **** from a 10/10 in my eyes was replayability. Some parts of exploration switch from awesome wonder to grinding for the perfect build as you replay certain portions of the game. However, any portion of this game that relates legacy dungeons, mystery, music, combat, or any number of other metrics for general enjoyment are flawless. Truly a masterclass for any game designer, particularly in my personal favorite category for game enjoyment: Environmental Design and Worldbuilding. Cannot recommend anymore that everyone try at the very least a blind run of this game, with the least amount of Google searches possible. Ask friends for help, don'tget spoiled, and really buy into the world and your role in it, it's a fantastic experience. Lastly, above all: You don't have the right, therefore you don't have the right, O you don't have the right.
Normally, I hate souls-like type games, but I succumbed to my curiosity about the ring from hand to the ring and I can say that it definitely deserves the money I gave until the end, there is a different detail in every corner, I absolutely loved it and for those who are afraid to start, I say the difficulty is used to it after a while and it gives pleasure.
All the game has is "hard" bosses, there is 0 story telling, and the "hard" bosses just have one gimmick to learn and once its learned you beat the boss.
Greatest Game of All Time without a doubt we dont even need any comment on it play and you will see it and dont you ever cry about game being hard. Not only ''get gud'' but there is other million ways to make the game easier so stop being a crybaby about it
It can be said to be the best RPG game in existence. The Dark Souls series is over, but Elden Ring has plenty of room to grow further in the future.
Oooooh death. Become my blade once more. Together we will devour the very gods
The best in the world!this super cool game no nonsense no extra payments 100% worth it
"Elden Ring" captivates players with its vast and intricately designed world, a sprawling landscape teeming with secrets and hidden elements. From the towering castles shrouded in mist to the deepest, darkest dungeons, the game invites players into a realm where exploration is richly rewarded. Each corner of the Lands Between brims with hidden paths, obscure puzzles, and cryptic lore, urging adventurers to look beyond the obvious and dive deeper. The game's design philosophy emphasizes discovery and curiosity, with countless hidden features that are not immediately apparent, offering a unique experience to those who dare to explore its depths and uncover its mysteries.
I am a gamer for like decent more than ten years. I have played a lots of game and due to that games become boring and repetetive to me. I realized that i was playing game just to finish them without having fun. So i was into lineer games but ELDEN RING **** yeah.This game just brightened me to keep playing games again. Not my first but top three game of all time
Intolerable framerate and frametime issues makes this game unplayable. The devs missed to meet minimum technical requirements. All in all unworthy state for what could have been a great game.
Lock on system doesn't work keeps changing no pause screen worlds cool bit you can just run past 60 percent of the games one bosses are cool 20 percent of everyone's death are **** side quest boring characters I don't care for good looks good combatspretty good never explain any of the stats and what they do I constantly have to go on my phone and search something up good character customize leveling weapons Is a pain in the ass the game doesn't want you to switch your build mid way though
This is the greatest game I've ever played. From Software just struggles to make games that are anything below an 8/10.
Caused my hard drives to crash on multiple occasions, totally fried one ps4 and just **** up my replacement ps4. The game is cool but after so manny updates there are major problems with the imput responses. Can't jump off of torrent whiles sprinting, small bushes that have invisible walls you get caught on. **** I had some random enemy phase in and kill me to go back and the guy was supposed to be on a upper level. This is a waste of money and time. Playstation wont address this problem
Elden Ring serves as a testament to open world video game design. There is a true sense of accomplishment once that rock-hard enemy has been slain and, something that compels a player to relentlessly do it over and over again until they succeed is truly rewarding
This game is the pinnacle of artificial difficulty masking itself as "skill." Souls like fans are the actual worst because they praise bad game design in the spirit of the game being "hard" or something. Visually the game is good, but everything else is atrocious.
It's got a lot of good things about it but to me the absolute best was the feeling of excitement and discovery when finding new areas, I felt like a kid again in the best kind of way.
Best of the souls-like games so far, but the difficulty level out of the gate still baffles me. There is little to no learning curve to the game; either you're fine with learning via repeated failure or you bounce off it. As someone that's disabled and lacks certain fine motor control, it just isn't a lot of fun bc it constantly reminds me of my physical shortcomings and does not allow me to participate with the community.
It's not really a game for me. More stressful than anything by getting killed and redoing huge areas because rest points are scarce
Was torn between 7 and 8. Insight into my gaming experience regarding this game: I have beaten Bloodborne 3-4 times (new game+ runs, no new file), including the DLC twice (first playthrough and new game+ 2), every boss and area (including hidden ones) - additionally, while I Iost count, I beat many dungeons and platinumed the game; I beat the Demon Souls Remake 4 times and Sekiro once (so far). I am in my first playthrough of Elden Ring and have been playing for 170 hr. I have been thoroughly exploring and completing every area and have not skipped a single boss. First, the good. The open-world is massive and beautifully designed (FromSoft always has excellent level design) - I can see why some have deemed it empty for its size but, I was happy with it (however, while the caves were awesome exploration and yielded numerous cool weapons or items, they severely lacked variety in design which can get monotonous). The addition of a horse was awesome (allowed for expeditious exploration and horseback combat). The dragon fights were super cool and cinematic (classic fantasy element). Lots of cool spells. Compared to most games, the combat is great (Typical FromSoft combat). For Souls veterans who have relished in previous Souls titles and are always waiting for the next Souls release, this game will probably be a 10/10 (some exceptions have been seen). There are multiple misses or imperfections in this game but, I won't go into too much detail. With how many bosses are repeated or simply somewhat boss versions of enemies seen in the world, and the lack of variety of cave design, as well as repeated enemies, despite the enormous ground covered, the game probably could have been smaller. This game added a lot of things from recent titles (talismans, weapons, spells, etc.) but, are mostly disappointingly underwhelming (whether it is range, damage, speed of animation or cooldown, or viability in combat). Poise is poorly done in this game. The overall mobility of the player compared to most enemies is annoyingly and unnecessarily unbalanced. The tracking of enemy moves compared to the lack thereof on the player side is frustrating. A lot of moves or movesets are difficult, in the sense it would be a difficult fight to be put in the ring against Mike Tyson in his prime with my arms tied behind my back. They have run out of ideas and essentially made things "difficult" for the sake of being difficult, where you'll die more due to luck of the draw on the RNG than lack of skill (at least once acquainted with the game's combat). This game is, relatively speaking, very overrated. Somewhat oversimplified, but, it is Bloodborne: removed from the gothic setting, the world magnified 10x over in size, and took the gods, outer gods with various sects of followers but, increased the amount of gods and used different mythological inspiration; however, Bloodborne's unique, Lovecraftian approach, and how unique the weapons were, along with the sidestep dodge, worked better - since the game also took less time, you're left wanting more, not tediously drained. Aside from the story, it is the combat/challenge - especially the combat/challenge - that really attracts you. Elden Ring made enemies more ridiculous in multiple ways while the player's mobility and base combat ability is nothing new. This game is overall, okay, wrapped up in very pretty paper: size and design of the world, the exorbitant amount of items, attire, spells, and weapons (I would be surprised if even 30% of the total things you get are worth it - mostly, you'll find little reason to switch up from whatever setup you've worked with for your first 30+ hours (maybe that varies from build to build). Sekiro was their best combat. Less dressed up (1 weapon / playstyle, but prosthetic tools and combat arts), but simply better: high skill requirement, but if you met it, you were rewarded by being able to die less (nonetheless, you had to remain on point and there was no room for error) or manage bosses "easier", like things seem easier for Crosbys, McDavids, Jordans, and so on. Sekiro had fast-paced combat that kept you engaged and on your feet, but if you're parrying was on point (parrying perfect), you can stand against any foe. You got punished if you slip, but only if you slip. Elden Ring is more dressed up, but a step back from Sekiro. Another critique accurately stated that it's like the enemies and/or bosses of Elden Ring are playing Sekiro, while you're still existing in OG Souls-style gameplay. This game was the perfect opportunity to raise the ability and difficulty of enemies (which they did) while innovating and improving the player's agility. For one, they still use the outdated, overly exaggerated animation for using curatives (adds zero value). Either way, allow for dodge cancelling out of certain animations (during cooldowns, or at the early stages of the startup). Could have included Sekiro's parrying to add value for builds that lack stagger ability.
The hype for this game made me angry. I hated it before I even played it. From what I saw of the game I thought everyone was blind or stupid giving it the praise that it got. 2 years later, after finishing all the other games I was interested in, I thought I'd give it a go... Turns out I love freakin' this game. Even when the game is absolutely spanking me I want to keep playing. I hate how much I now love Elden Ring.
I left a review when the game first came out. Lowest score possible, i left the most scathing review i possibly could. I hated it. Fast forward 2 years and i just beat the promised consort and miquella. Ive been sitting infront of my tv for 30 minutes, thinking back on the 587 hours i have logged on this game and i thought to myself, not only is this the best game ive ever played, but i find it hard to believe there will be another game to rival this game for years to come. This is a true cinematic masterpiece, and is hands down the most challenging game ive ever played. What an absolutely fantastic ride, thank you From Software!
elden ring is a revolutionary master piece that will stay as the best souls game for years to comme
I have tried at least 5 times to try and get into this game since everyone is circle jerking it but the combat is just so boring and outdated. From software made sekiro and I expect every game after sekiro to be as engaging and dynamic. This combat system breaks the game for me thus a 0 score.
Elden Ring is a good game, but it falls short compared to the last Souls games released. It has too many repeated bosses, making it feel overly long and dragging at times. The last areas have almost no dungeons and very little content. The quests are impossible to follow without guides, and the game is very poorly optimized for PC.
The greatest game of all time, yes, it's better than Red Dead Redemption 2 in my opinion.
Dark Souls with open world, just awesome. It´s also not that hard like previous From Software games because of the ashes you can cast. Enjoyed it!
One of the very few games in history that truly deserves a perfect rating. What modern open world games should strive to be.
Cheap deaths: The Game. I don't mind difficulty but a lot of deaths are caused by the poor camera and input lag. I bet if they fixed these things this game wouldn't be that difficult. People just accept it though like it's part of the genre though. It just leads to a larger luck factor. The world and the lore are great though. I really like the dungeon design, too.
To put random bosses for normal enemy in the dlc and make it Pay 40€ is like to ask a pizza in the restaurant and Eat the table
Elden Ring is an amazing game. Despite being known for its difficulty, the game focuses on letting players learn. With the pleasing graphics, Elden Ring is a top notch game.
I'm usually more of a platformer girly (Crash Bandicoot, The Messenger, Celeste), and this is my first time trying a fromsoftware game, but I loved every bit of it. I put 168hrs into it to do a lot of the questlines, do several of the evergaols, explore most of each area, and beat all of the main bosses and most of the harder extra bosses (including Malenia!). Despite having no experience with these types of games, I found it very accessible. I refused to get help with the bosses (my husband is a big fromsoft fan and a seasoned souls player, so he offered many times to help lol), so I worked through those fights on my own, and I found it so rewarding to learn the boss moves and finally beat a boss I had been working on for a while. I thought it was a truly exhilarating experience and was also captivated by the art, character models, music and various story lines!
Everyone saying this game is hard are complete losers who dont take the time to learn game mechanics like the mimic tear summon is completely overpowered it makes the game 10 times easier and realistically if you have a good build boss fights should take 2 hours at the most genuinely I'd read through most of these comments and all the negative comments are just complete sore losers who come here and say the game is too hard like what do you want a participation ribbon get the f*** out of here the game is supposed to be hard.
Amazing game great graphics and gameplay and very hard which makes the game fun
The grandest and yet most approachable of the "souls" games, Elden Ring gives a good challenge to veterans while also giving new comers the most available tools to overcome said challenges. The sheer amount of weapons and spells, coupled with the huge, non linear open world means that players will have unique experiences crafting their own playstyles and becoming Elden Lords.
Typically I don't review a game but in this case I must. This game is one of a kind and therefore I believe no one can make something like this in feature . It's perfect in every aspect like story, gameplay, visual design and music the only game that impressed like that was blodeborn.
Unreal gaming experiences. This is one everyone owes it to themselves to try.
Elden Ring is, without a doubt, the greatest game of all time. The level design is outstanding, offering a beautifully intricate world that invites exploration and rewards curiosity. Each area is meticulously crafted, making every corner of the game feel alive and significant.Despite its notorious difficulty, Elden Ring never feels unfair. Every challenge can be overcome with patience and strategy, and when failure occurs, it’s usually due to the player’s own mistakes rather than any fault of the game. This creates a deeply satisfying experience as you learn and adapt, ultimately mastering the game’s **** of the most remarkable aspects of Elden Ring is the flexibility in playstyle. The variance in how you can approach combat and exploration is almost unparalleled. Whether you prefer magic, melee, stealth, or a mix of all, the game supports and encourages experimentation. This adaptability allows for a highly personalized experience, ensuring that no two playthroughs are the **** summary, Elden Ring combines exquisite level design, fair but challenging gameplay, and unparalleled flexibility to deliver an unforgettable gaming experience. It sets a new standard for the genre and stands as a testament to what video games can achieve. 11/10
When I first played through the original story, I was stoked by how cool the story was. I would have given it 9/10 Upon having to replay most of it to get to the DLC, I noticed a lot of inconsistencies that rubbed me the wrong way... to the point of being burnt on the game before even starting the DLC: - enemies clipping through walls - hitbox inconsistencies -screen tearing - The graphics are not really that great - Excessively Lore-driven and non-linear... to the point of having to look up multiple guides to even reach the DLC. - Some storylines are locked behind online play (not cool) - PS+ offer pops up every time I start the game now. Can't even read messages without PS+, but it let me for the first couple of days... (wack) - The intelligence build is too OP. Kamehameha everything and say cheese. -Loading screens are too slow for PS5. feels like PS4 ULTIMATE GRIPE - not cross-platform. It's 2024 FROM. Seriously? Get with the program, I want to play with my dumb and elitist friends on XBOX and PC!!!
Every area in this game is massive and incredibly dense, it pays off massively to explore. The boss designs are completely different from what weve seen in previous fromsoft games. Fromsofts take on an open world formula for the soulsborne series is truly amazing, and i want them to keep doing it.
I prefer Sekiro and Bloodbourne. They are masterpieces. Elden Ring is empty open world game. Game design is somewhat creaky. I finished harder areas first and then went to easier areas. The former area made me struggle and I couldn't enjoy the latter area because I got too strong. It ruined my game experience. Delayed attacks of bosses were terrible.
The fact that bosses get to be invincible*commander gairus* while charging right out of the gate and one shots you no matter if you have 99 vitality or not, pure trash.
Greatest game of all time hands down!! Gameplay, combat, art direction, sound track, world design, enemy variety, boss fights and all were top notch. FromSoftware nailed a generational talent yet again! Final score 20/10
Greatest game of all time hands down!! Gameplay, combat, art direction, sound track, world design, enemy variety, boss fights and all were top notch. FromSoftware nailed a generational talent **** yet again! Final score 20/10
One of the BEST games ever made. SO many hours played and I am still itching for more. I am a true Elden Lord. Unfortunately not everyone can say the same... MannyFresh cheated his way to the credits screen. Jumping off cliffs like he's sponsored by Cliff Bars.... its sad to see. Such a promising young Humpty Dumpty who fell off his cliff and couldn't get back up. Let this be a lesson to all the aspiring Elden Lords Don't give in to the easy way out. Cheating is not winning and playing with your friends should trump all. PC > PS5 :(
Huge empty spaces, locations that are not central to the plot = complete crap. The empty content of open locations is depressing. The bosses are constantly repeating themselves and it's very annoying.
Elden Ring is one of the greatest games I have ever played. In 2022, when it won game of the year, I was pretty disappointed and never picked up a copy of the game because I didn’t think I’d enjoy it. I had played previous FromSoftware games but I was never a huge fan of them when I was younger. Eventually I cracked and picked up a copy of Elden Ring just to give it a shot. I was immediately hooked. The world was so beautiful and the game as a whole looked amazing. The combat is so smooth. There are so many playstyles, you can really make the game your own. The story was captivating and interesting despite being slightly hard to follow and understand at times. The side content and NPC quests are so fun. There are no quest markers or directions on where to go for the most part which is the one thing that usually bothers me with FromSoft games but I actually didn’t mind it. It almost adds to the openness and freedom that the game gives you, as if you’re really on that adventure. There is tons of replayability and so many different ways to play the game. The bosses are fun and unique, their fights never get old. Honestly one of the best games I’ve played recently and probably one of the best games of all time. Really glad I gave it a chance, it’s also given me the itch to go back and replay the Dark Souls games again.
More of one of the best games ever made. Recaptures the sense of wonder and exploration that makes the game what it is. For the people hung up on difficulty, explore the world and soak it in, you’ll find the tools to overcome your obstacle. This isn’t a boss rush mode.
everyone giving it low scores are either angry that their cheese build doesnt work or that they are stubborn and wont try new and exciting work around with the bossess. Instead just killing themselves over and over and call the boss "badly designed".
Best game ever made hands down. Replayed 11 times and have enjoyed it every time.
I really tried to find something wrong with this game to not give it a 10/10 but I couldn't
I love Elden Ring! Fromsoftware gave their Souls-Formula a great openworld spinoff and Its great!There are some nicks&nacks but all in all well spent money!
Elden Ring was already a GREAT GAME, with this **** GOD WHAT A MASTERPIECE !The negative side is that the bosses are almost as difficult as Malenia (yes, that boss that gave me heart attacks and I'm sure a lot of people too)! This game will forever be etched in my memory.
Level design, music and art style are great but that doesn’t complete a game. More of the same old thing, dodge roll, learn attack patterns, die alot, and screw with the inventory for hrs before finally defeating a boss (or not). As an adult gamer, i value my time too much to waste what little time i have to play on this game. Getting stomped for 3 hrs straight and calling it a night with little to no progress is not for me. I understand it may be the greatest game for some but, this game clearly has a target audience.
Game is hard, has recycled bosses, is boring, and is poorly optimized. The camera ruins the gameplay.
The best game I have ever played i love the difficulty it is a great challenge with a great feeling when you finish the game
Best game I ever played definitely in my top 5 list. This game is a masterpiece I loved every minute while playing this game. I really hope they make a trilogy of this game.
This game is perfect. An Exciting gameplay, quests are very interesting, the lore is just incredible and full of historical, religious and philosophical references. This game is just incredible !
One of the best games I have played so far. World design is incredible and it is so much fun to explore. I have really loved every part of the game.
This game is nothing short of a masterpiece. It takes everything fans love about the Souls series and elevates it to thrilling results.
this game study your movement just want you to die + adding 2 boss in one fight just to make it harder the director of the game doesn't know how to make a game + adding a useless between a stronger enemy just to make it look like an importent item, trash game 0/10 i suggest mayazaki quit making games
i like the way fromsoft didn't fully cater to everyone and stayed loyal to their fanbase and the hype brought new fans to the genre. a piece of advice to anyone who's not familiar with fromsoft games, do not compare it to other games other than fromsoft games you'll look stupid. it is very different to other games.
This is an masterpiece, the best game ever, in every single genre, storyline, graphics, physics, hitboxes, enemies, everything is perfect and new dlc pack is insanely good, cant even describe in words
A masterpiece. My favorite game after Ds1. Huge, tons of content, incredible variety... I prefer interconnected world over open world, but still...
Best game if you want a thrilling adventure, Rather than forcing the user to move to the field, the user is allowed to go voluntarily.
Where do I begin with this game. It has got to be one of the best games EVER. It changed the typical souls formula into an absolutely beautiful open world that makes exploring fun again. The boss fights were clearly the highlight tho. They were amazing and they were all very memorable bosses with some of my favourites being radahn and maliketh. I am so ready to experience the DLC and love it because it will just improve this masterpiece ****
An absolute monument added to the videogame industry, the game is vast , epic , fun and yes often hard but it's what makes this game unique. A feeling that will be hard to get in another game.
There is no other game that offers the same feeling as Elden Ring. The first playthrough is just magical. I think everyone should experience it.
AMAZING GAME. finishing elden ring left me feel empty after simply cause I couldn't find a game that's as good asit. MUST PLAY!!!
Overall empty open world but bosses. And many bosses repeat anyway. Also saving mech of this game ****. 13 hours of progress went straight down to the hell. I didn't even experienced anything like this in broken demon souls. From soft always find a way to downgrade their game
The best game I've ever played, there is no other game better than Elden Ring, simply perfect in every aspect, best game in the world
One of the worst games of all time I can’t understand how it gots better ratings than gra san andreas
Elden Ring is the GOAT Well deserved GOTY 2022 and beats all games with its great open world experience and balanced boss fights, the npc's or opponents you encounter earlier are easy to beat and ones in later game are difficult to beat People who played it and don't like have skill issue!
The 60 FPS makes this masterpiece feel even better. Onward to Shadow of the Erdtree!
One of the best games to ever exist and whoever says the game is bad is just bad at the game. The game is just massive and fun and I’ve personally spent 40 hours in the first week of playing it (which I’ve never done).
Everything about this game is good, its combat, its enemies, its beautiful open world, and its lore is very interesting. From software has learned from there previous souls titles and put what was good about those games into elden ring. You can also choose how you want to completete game with its almost never ending roster of weapons, armour, and talismans. 10/10,worth every cent.
Simply the best videogame ever, masterpiece of the open world and very nice design
I will have to say, the game is technically a banger, and you can see how this would be one of the greatest games of all time, it just didn't mesh well with what I liked. If what I say next applies to you, then you might agree too. The game is very methodical and punishing, not only by the damage, but by specifically the gameplay. You have to manage a stamina meter, which means you can't just keep attacking and dodging. I don't really like this, because this means I can't move in the way I wanna move. This causes the game to feel a little slow for people like me. Secondly, I don't like the level up system at all. You have to grind up money to level up, and you only get a single point to change one attribute. This might appeal to some, but I prefer that every level up raises all stats in a game like this, and you get a bonus point for additional leveling. Lastly, I don't like how you need certain stats to use certain weapons. You can get stuff that you can't use until hours later, which ****. I think that if you get a weapon, that you should just be able to use it. So yeah, I could say other things, but overall, I didn't like that game that much. I will give a highish score because I did appreciate the game's quality, but it is something that is not for me.
Very fun !! I've already played 600 hours. I still don't get tired of it. If you don't mind playing a game with a high level of difficulty, please play it!
As a man who enjoys soulsborne games and the soulslike genre as a whole, to those with ratings of 0 and complain that it needs a difficulty option or that you die too much, need to sink hours into the game etc. Just. Get. Better! Really I do mean it! If your weapon does no damage, check to see if it’s even upgraded! You want to try out a weapon? Upgrade it! Or use it in another play-through! Finding a boss difficult? It’s fine if you watch videos on what it does, there’s a reason why you’re able to access it even if it’s your first time playing! Did too easily? Just level up vigor! (This game is pretty bad with its vigor checks, making you level vigor before you decide to level up your actual stats.)Want to do quest lines but don’t got any markers or quest logs? Just listen to the npc the first time! Don’t skip dialogue and actually listen! You’ll be fine if you do that! Complaining about graphics? That is just a genuine issue on your end, or you haven’t bothered changing the setting(if you’re a console player) to prioritise framerate, trust me it’s worth it. Encountering bugs? This game came out 2 years ago! Your favourite will also have bugs that you exploit as well so don’t blame this game for having it when all games do, it’s natural! In the end of this review, it’s an alright game. It’s not as crazy hard as many people out to be, actually most would say it’s the easiest game for newcomers to get into the soulsborne games! Welcome to the world of soulsborne! You died. Now just play, you‘ve already sold your soul. I did when I started and disliked bloodborne, replayed it and it’s my #1 souls game. Just play it.
insane game, the only that keeps me dying and wanting to play it again and again, fantastic.
Best game ever and i am very excited for the DLC Shadow of the Erdtree. Best FromSoftware game beside Bloodborne.
Bosses have exceeded the difficulty and complexity the Dark Souls combat is able to keep up with. What was a standard melee run with no summons is now hard difficulty and the bosses are playing Sekiro while you're still playing Dark Souls. Not only are they more complex and unfun with their long combos, delayed attacks, and few openings but they're also overstat. In Dark Souls 3 NG+7 it would take a standard late game boss 3-4 attacks to kill you without buffs, plus one more due to tears of denial. Now not only do bosses kill you in 1-2 hits, but you also have no tears of denial. Bosses also have way padded health pools and defenses. If you're playing for the bosses and their amazing soundtracks, Dark Souls 3 is your game, not this. The open world is mostly empty and makes replayability a drag; you'll spend more time on the horse traversing the land than not. The best sections are the linear and concise legacy dungeons. Who would have thought. Some extra quality of life is appreciated but they also ruined some basic systems like how there's no longer hybrid elemental scaling infusion, no basic fire weapon buff spell, lightning infusion scaling on dex rather than faith, and other grievances. There's very few realistic medieval knight armor sets like there were in prior games; most sets are fantastical and have extra stuff on the helmet that completely ruin the look.
One of the best games ever made the combat is amazing the graphics are amazing the lore is interesting and entertaining the characters are memorable the bosses are fun to learn and fight the fact that you can play this game in so many different ways is phenomenal I can easily go from playing as a pyromancy samurai to a warrior using miracles this game is truly amazing and Im so happy it won goty I hope the dlc is even better
Vastly expansive and frankly a bit overwhelming, Elden Ring does almost nothing but impress from a visual storytelling and worldbuilding standpoint. The map is wildly diverse, as are its foes and creatures, and it does an incredible job of drawing the player in from the moment they step into Limgrave from the tutorial. It's story is one wrapped in subtlety in an almost aggravating way. The game never really allows you to FULLY understand what's going on and that can be frustrating for first time players who are undoubtedly drawn in to the incredible character and world design, but that's about all there is in terms of critique for this game. Elden Ring is one of those games that simply will never get old. It looks gorgeous by today's standards, and will look gorgeous for years to come, because of the unmatched visual talent over at From Software. It's beyond impressive what they were able to convey in this game's environment, and its undoubtedly the best aspect of the entire game, as good as it is. It's a major step forward in the soulsborne genre, and will no doubt pave the way for From Software's future work. There were a few balancing issues at launch, with certain weapons being a bit cheesy and unfun, but that never took away from the incredible PvE experience. Just affected pvp interactions on occasion. Every remembrance boss tops the last in terms of quality, with incredibly crafted movesets that allow for the player to learn and adapt in a wildly engaging way. On top of the meticulous gameplay design, all of the major bosses simply look cool. and that goes a LONG way for the first-time experience. Overall Elden Ring is, in my opinion, the pinnacle of the soulsborne genre. I'm sure it will be topped, but for now, it stands alone as an amalgamation of what makes these games uniquely incredible, and it deserves its flowers.
Stealing ideas from previous FromSoftware games. Terrible balance. I have completed all the FromSoftware games and I can confidently say that Elden Ring is a terrible game that is not fun!
Elden Ring, the much-anticipated collaboration between FromSoftware and George R.R. Martin has taken the gaming world by storm. As a long-time fan of the Soulsborne series, I approached Elden Ring with both excitement and trepidation, wondering if it could possibly live up to the monumental expectations. What I found was a game that not only met those expectations but transcended them, delivering an experience that is as profoundly moving as it is challenging.From the moment you step into the Lands Between, it’s clear that Elden Ring is a labor of love. The world is vast and meticulously crafted, with every region telling its own story through environmental details and carefully placed lore items. George R.R. Martin’s influence is palpable in the rich tapestry of history and mythology that underpins the game. The narrative unfolds in layers, encouraging players to explore and piece together the intricate puzzle of the world’s past and present. This method of storytelling, a hallmark of FromSoftware’s games, reaches new heights here, blending mystery with revelation in a way that is deeply satisfying.Elden Ring’s gameplay is a masterful evolution of the Soulsborne formula. The combat is as tight and demanding as ever, requiring precision, strategy, and adaptability. What sets Elden Ring apart is its open-world design, which offers unprecedented freedom and encourages exploration. The addition of the Spectral Steed, Torrent, transforms traversal, allowing players to cover vast distances swiftly and engage in mounted combat. This innovation adds a dynamic layer to the already rich combat system, making encounters feel fresh and **** game’s difficulty is a topic of much discussion, but it’s worth noting that Elden Ring provides a variety of tools to aid players. The summoning system, which allows for cooperative play, is more accessible than ever, and the inclusion of Spirit Ashes provides an additional layer of strategy. These elements make the game more approachable without sacrificing the core challenge that fans cherish.Visually, Elden Ring is breathtaking. The art direction is nothing short of spectacular, with each area offering distinct and unforgettable aesthetics. From the hauntingly beautiful ruins of Limgrave to the eerie majesty of the Erdtree, the game is a feast for the eyes. The attention to detail is astounding, with every nook and cranny packed with secrets waiting to be **** audio design is equally impressive. The score, composed by Yuka Kitamura and Tsukasa Saitoh, perfectly complements the game’s atmosphere, ranging from hauntingly melancholic to triumphantly epic. Sound effects are meticulously crafted, enhancing the immersion and making every action feel weighty and significant.Elden Ring offers deep character customization, allowing players to tailor their experience to their preferred playstyle. The range of available weapons, spells, and abilities is vast, providing a level of flexibility that is unmatched. The character progression system is intuitive yet deep, rewarding experimentation and thoughtful planning. This depth extends to the game’s NPCs, whose stories and quests add layers of meaning and consequence to the player’s **** narrative of Elden Ring is a dark and captivating tale of ambition, loss, and redemption. It explores themes of power, corruption, and the cyclical nature of history with a poignancy that is rare in video games. The characters you meet are complex and multifaceted, their fates intertwined with the larger narrative in ways that are often surprising and moving. The game’s ending, or rather endings, are thought-provoking and offer a sense of closure that is both satisfying and open to interpretation.Elden Ring is a triumph, a game that pushes the boundaries of what an open-world RPG can be. It seamlessly blends FromSoftware’s signature gameplay with a richly detailed world and a narrative that resonates on a deeply emotional level. The result is a game that is not only a joy to play but also a profound experience that stays with you long after the credits **** an era where many games are content to follow established formulas, Elden Ring dares to innovate, to challenge, and to inspire. It is a testament to the power of video games as an art form and a reminder of why we fell in love with gaming in the first place. Whether you are a veteran of the Soulsborne series or a newcomer to FromSoftware’s worlds, Elden Ring is a journey that you will not want to miss.
It's a very well made game overall with one major downside. Which is open world with same enemies and bosses in catacombs, dragon bosses etc. Other than that it is a masterpiece game. I recommend it everyone.
An enjoyable experience. I personally do not enjoy souls-like as much as maybe some others do, but I do think this (and Sekiro) are the pinnacle of the genre.
I enjoyed a lot of Sekiro's gameplay, Bloodborne's ambiance and story, and DS3's overall vibe as a game. I had Elden Ring on my wishlist for almost two years, and when I finally got it, I was **** combat in Elden Ring quickly becomes monotonous. Once you acquire a good weapon, which requires some initial effort, you tend to stick with it for the rest of the game. This is because there are only a few truly effective weapons, and upgrading a weapon is such an investment that farming materials to level up another one feels **** game features a wide variety of enemies, but unfortunately, about 70% of them share the same moveset and slow behavior, making them easy to defeat in 2-3 hits. The most interesting enemies are the faster and more aggressive ones, but even they become repetitive after the first **** story is almost non-existent unless you delve into secondary quests, which often feel like you're just running errands.I wish this game were as engaging as Sekiro, Bloodborne, or Dark Souls 3. Those games reward exploration and provide a sense of progression through gameplay, rather than relying solely on character stats.
To be honest, the fact that the press unanimously ranks ‘Elden Ring’ as one of the best games of all time makes me question the extent to which traditional gaming journalism is still legitimate in the 21st century, the age of technology-driven democratisation of game reviews via YouTube, reddit, etc. I am very sure that the title will not stand up to a retrospective re-evaluation. In terms of art direction and gameplay, I see a generic dark fantasy third-person action RPG here that doesn't set its own accents. The graphics are largely unspectacular; although there are some appealing architectural set pieces, the title is still on a par with a PS3 HD adaptation. Ugly subtleties, such as the mounts jerking (or ‘clipping’) over the uneven landscape, do the overall impression no favours either. The descriptions in most reviews resemble a veritable promise of experience, a form of immersive overpowering that I - especially as someone who has no experience with the developer studio's previous work - cannot comprehend in this way. Anyone who doesn't enjoy running in circles to defeat woodenly animated enemies should give the title a miss. After 10 hours, I had run out of steam.
Something incredible. The best gamei have ever played dude its crazy i cant wait for dlc erdtree
It's gotten worse with updates somehow. Especially in the performance department. And critical hits still dont trigger properly. No excuse. All these updates and still the MOST BASIC THINGS ARENT IRONED OUT. Basical platforming glitches are also just untouched. Insulting.
The best game I have ever played, I have completed the game more than 10 time and planning on more.
Imagine a game that is Dark Souls with a bit of Game of Thrones, but it feels like a part-time job. That game, my friends, is Elden Ring. The hype was nothing close to what playing the game felt like. You grind, then grind some more, and some more, fighting the same enemies over and over again to the point where you might as well do something productive and see a real-life return on investment.
Since the single player DLC is releasing soon, I wanted to return to the world that FromSoft created and finally post my thoughts on this amazing game. While I am a long time Soulsborne fan, ER stands out as both new and familiar. There will be bonfires, estus flasks to upgrade, and the loss of all your souls when you die, sure, but unlike all the previous games in the series, ER offers unrivaled freedom. One of the barriers to entry in other Soulsborne games is the soul crushing difficulty that can gate keep you from progressing. But ERlargely eliminates this by making most bosses in the game optional or skippable. Moreover, you can go do something else to improve your skills. And this decision to skip ER’s preset paths often opens you up to some of the best parts of the game.
Game of the generation. 2nd playghrough and loving it! Cannot wait for the DLC:)
This what open games should be. Wonderful and full of mysteries world, incredible story ( asoiaf is my fav book series), amazing gameplay. But if u do not want to be challenged in games it is not for you
The best Soul's game by far, so far. FromSoftware proved once more that gaming is not going downhill; not at all.
It was a great gaming experience. The size of the world, the fun of exploration, the charm of the characters, the fun of combat, and the story that colored them all were all perfect. The game takes an enormous amount of time just to explore, but you get what you put your time into, so you end up adventuring. The way in which the items and information obtained through exploration can be examined in detail, allowing the player to become even more deeply involved in the story, was also brilliantly done. I would like to express my gratitude for being able to enjoy such a wonderful game with beautiful images on a high spec console.
Very difficult. You will die a billion times from enemies that kill you in one hit. The game looks beautiful, but it's not actually fun. It's boring dying all the time and not progressing because you die instantly. The combat mechanics aren't as good as games from ten years ago - not very satisfying. The story may as well be non-existent. I doubt I will continue playing this game. It's just not actually that fun. I prefer video games to be fun.
Best openWorld ever , thank you From software you are the best studio. People who compare this masterpiece with god of retirement you are brainless idiots, go buy taste, you are ridiculous. you support games that make fun of you.
Greatest game of all time, elden ring has ruined gaming for me. 25 games above this in metacritic don't even hold candle against this game.
its always 10/10 in my heart....... i still hate this game tho.......................
Literal **** masterpiece. Game has it all. Action, love, power, hate, and LOTS and LOTS of dodge rolling
I loved playing Elden Ring . It’s the only game I am still playing after 300 hours in the game . After Dark souls 3 and Bloodborne one the best games ever made by fromsoftware .
While the graphics and performance tech aren't quite where i'd like them, the exploration of Elden Ring is what lifts it above so may other games, even with some of the content being repeated. You always feel like exploring is worth your time. Story... I have no idea what's going on, but that's just not the focus of the game. The combat, RPG mechanics, open world and enemy variety is superb.
BEST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED! This game is a masterpiece graphically alone. The gameplay is super smooth and it's easy to get used to. Since there are many different classes, weapons, weapons and skills, you can play the game many times because every playthrough is completely different and a different gaming experience. Even if you If you feel a bit lost in this open world at the beginning, it's fun to explore the world. There are many different types of enemies and bosses, all of which are special in their own way and you often don't defeat the boss on the first try because they all have a different moveset have different strengths and weaknesses. THIS GAME IS A MASTERPIECE
Boring open world with no soul this is a boring open world “like Dark Souls”, in contrast to which, with dozens of identical bosses, the reward for which is complete crap and the battle with which is simply incredibly boring. Why does the game need millions of enemies, dozens of identical locations and dungeons, bosses and items if the reward for this is 80% complete garbage? it's just boring. I played for 60 hours and spent most of the time trying to fully explore the world which turned out to be incredibly boring. This game cannot be played without an interactive map, unlike previous games. The feeling from the game is bad, the first game from FS that I didn’t finish and don’t plan to
You can be anythingyou want you can search the amazing world and fell like a lord
The difficulty and the majestic world are so addicting. This game is truly and experience. The game is massive well worth exploring.
Just kind of boring and monotonous. If you've never played a souls game, or you're a souls-fanatic that can never get enough of the same formula, then you'll probably like this game a lot. Otherwise, it's essentially a uninspired repetition of the same ol' that From Software has been doing for over a decade now. The setting is the same boring, vague Euro-medieval high-fantasy world but without any actually intriguing lore or world-building; the gameplay is identical to Dark Souls except they have added the jumping and stealth mechanics of Sekiro, which is cool I guess except it's still nothing innovative. The only innovative mechanic is the horse combat and platforming which is the best part of the game IMO. Otherwise, the new "open-world" really adds little to ****'re just using a horse to traverse big empty open spaces without any of the interesting characters, random encounters etc. **** open-world game like Horizon Zero, Witcher 3 etc. In conclusion, unless you literally can't get enough of the same old Souls formula, or you've never played a Souls game before, this game is kind of boring, monotonous and not engaging. The high critic rating just shows certain developers can keep releasing the same **** and the industry will applaud...I'm not hating either, Bloodborne was innovative, so was Sekiro, and yet Elden Ring is essentially a step backwards with superficial innovation.
If you haven't seen a masterpiece yet then you must play it, tarnished one lol
Such a good game . The bosses and the world is just fantastic. Must-play for everbody. The game is just a 10/10
The greatest game of all time, going far beyond my already high expectations of this game at release. Every intention, every vision, every detail they thought of was actualized to its fullest. 10/10
Very fun game with fun elements. Might be outdated for some, but I think it's a great time! BEST Souls games
Elden Ring has an incredible number of fascinating locations to explore and cool enemies to fight. The developer studio has refined the precision of combat over their past five games, and it still feels so good to outmaneuver dangerous foes. The music and art direction are as beautiful and powerful as ever before. They really do most of the work to set the tone for an epic adventure with a dramatic finale. Elden Ring is more accessible than any Dark Souls game. Example #1: Stakes of Marika allow players to revive closer to the boss arenas and get back to the action quicker. Example #2: The mount in this game spawns out of thin air and moves through the open world faster than the normal movement speed. Example #3: Spirit ashes enable a variety of NPC summons to be upgraded, and they make boss fights a lot easier. Example #4: Invasions only happen when you voluntarily interact with the online summons. They do not happen randomly in the open world. Example #5: Fast travel is more convenient than before. All of these quality-of-life improvements make Elden Ring more enjoyable for the average player by cutting out some of the tedium.
Endless options, insane battles, unrelenting soundtrack. This game is peak dark souls. The damage balancing is rough in the final third of the game. If I could split this into 2 reviews I would say the first 2/3 of the game is a 10, and final 1/3 is a 7
Awesome game! The best honestly, one of FROMSOFT's best and the one they'll be remembered for.
This is one of the greatest games of all time. The world building is incredible, the exploration is on another level, the combat is the pinnacle of soulslike. Absolutely an incredible achievement for games.
An absolute masterpiece ****. The game is magical and beautifully crafted. The only downside to this game is its frame rate drops which can be annoying at times, but overall this game is worth every second of it, even when you are struggling to find a way to defeat your foes.
if there's someone who rate this game lower than 7, it's because they don't have enough gamesense.
This game has everything done right except well you know story but that is typical of any souls game by fromsoftware. Gameplay is similar to other souls game but with more variety this time round. Its not a game of the year for no reason and worth every penny.
FROM SOFTWARE has once again delivered a masterpiece with Elden Ring. It's a game that brought back memories of my school days, when I was immersed in the vast world of Skyrim, exploring every nook and cranny. Despite any personal preferences, there's no denying the brilliance of this game. Admittedly, there are some areas where it falls short, such as dated movements and assets recycled from previous From Software titles. However, these shortcomings pale in comparison to the sheer scope and magnificence of the game. Even simply exploring the world feels like just a small part of the overall grand experience.
An Epic, non-handholding, challenging adventure. This game became my favorite game of all time an hour after I started playing it. I bought this game for PS5 after beating it on PC just because I wanted to give the developers more money.
Simply a masterpiece, on the same level as Bloodborne. The encloses legacy dungeons are some of the greatest Souls areas of all time. The bosses are fantastic, best set of bosses in the franchise and the dlc is not even out yet. The build variety is absolutely fantastic, the music is really good and the art direction is some of the best I’ve seen in a video game. Overall a must play for anyone who wants to experience a good open world game.
Quite simply one of the best game in the modern generation. It takes many of the best aspects of previous SoulsBorne games, adds an open world and the ability to travel on horse, and offers an adventure in a massive world filled with lore and intrigue. Fantastic combat with a incredible amounts of weapons to choose from. Truly a masterpiece!
Favorite game ever amazing story and combat more polished pvp with the colisseums
Damn god, this is MASTERPIECE Even it is my first soullike game though, it has no doubt it is THE GAME.
Undisputably the greatest game of all time, Hidetaka Miyazaki's magnum opus
The masterpiece that shows the evolution of From Software game design phylosophy and visuals.
One of the greatest games ever made. That is all that needs to be said. We prepared for a challenge, but don't run from it. Accept the challenge and you will feel better for it.
Personally, the vast and magnificent world view of the game was no less than the Lord of the Rings.
Would do 8.5, but meta doesn't allow for half points. I loved Bloodborne and Sekiro, so I wanted to love this, but just never reached the same highs for me personally. Not to take away from it as I see the appeal that many would love about it, but I'm not big for massive open worlds as is (for example, not a huge fan of Breath of the Wild, though I understood why people would love it). The open world gave you some freedom to explore and tackle the world as you see fit, which is awesome, but I felt there were some crazy OP abilities. Mimic Tear trivialized so many fights and while I could have just not used it, I was too stubborn to change my build (and also lacked refinement materials to upgrade other weapons and try different things), so I resorted it to it more and more at the end. Partially my own fault, but as mentioned, I don't really like aimlessly exploring so I didn't want to go find more materials. Once in awhile, I don't mind getting lost and exploring, but to do it for the entire game is not for me. Overall, its a great game, deserving of all the accolades, but just didn't personally resonate with me. I'll eventually go back and try for other endings, but not sure I'll get the DLC.
Genres and combinations of genres are cool in the imagination, but usually end up with terrible results. It's hard. However, Elden Ring did it. The harmonious combination of open world and log-like.
literally a perfect game (: It deserves game of the century in my opinion, by that I mean best game that has came out in the last 100 years. I want this game to skibidi toilet sigma rizz all over my gyat!
Combat was fun as well as building your character. Some annoying balancing issues that it goes from very hard to very easy with little adjustment. The later part of the game when you enter the snow area is not as fun.
I prefer Sekiro to Elden Ring, but you sure do get a lot of content out of this one, if even to a fault. Lots of lore. Lots of emotion. Lots of memories of release week. A top ten all time game it seems.
I’ve never played a soulsborne before and this was my introduction. I couldn’t put the game down. It’s a stressful learning curve in the beginning but once you get your footing with a little online help you’ll get hooked. One of the best games I’ve ever played now that I’ve beaten it (a few times)!
Absolute garbage, idk how FromSoftware can release such a garbage after the god-like Sekiro and Bloodborne. The open-world just wastes your precious time, it's just so boring. Yeah technically its better than DS3 but who cares if the world building is trash? Go ahead and just play DS3 instead, at least that one doesn't wastes your time with it's linear level desing. The only good thing about this game are the enclosed areas like the Lucidia or how is it called academy, and of course the bosses, the rest is absolute time wasting garbage. They should teleport you directly from boss to boss and call it a day imho.
overworld is fantastic great bosses gameplay is smooth massive number of weapons and spells
No words to explain how magical this game is. As someone who's been playing souls games since 2015, I couldn't believe this game was real while going through and exploring the world. So many moments that blow your mind as you play, from discovering the lift down to Siofra to accidentally teleporting to Leyndell. This is a game that keeps giving, again and again. The bosses are overall amazing, the world and art design is Elden Ring's greatest strength in my opinion. It is very hard for me to find a flaw in this game.
Perfect game design with nearly perfect Movement makes this a 10 out of 10 for me
COMBAT/BOSSES: Fantastic boss fights. Enemy designs are great.Build diversity is good. Combat system is certainly an upgrade from the previous souls games, with the introduction of stance stagger system, jumping/crouching attacks and customizable ashes of war. I also like how you're incentivized to be aggressive with heavy weapons despite their slow movesets, since they are the most effective at breaking stances. RPG: The leveling system is as shallow as it's always been, meaning it's just a numbers game. It can barely be called an RPG system. The only stat that (kinda) affects how you PLAY is endurance, which determines how aggressive you can be, and how much you can block with shields. Everything else is merely numbers. More HP, more damage, that's it. You increase *your* numbers for the higher numbers the *enemies* will have in the next area. Nothing but a game of cat and mouse. Leveling stats doesn't expand your gameplay, it just gives you the illusion of your character getting 'stronger'. Whether you're at level 50 or level 200, what you can do is essentially the same. They could've implemented a light skill tree system that will add more variety/flavor to your playstyle and personalize your build. OPEN WORLD/LEVEL DESIGN: Did it really have to be...? Other than the few night-only mini-bosses, there's no randomized or rare encounters at all. Everything is exactly the same whenever you open the game. Same enemies, same number of them, same spot, every single time. No random NPC inhabitants either. Everything is 100% scripted. After you're greeted with all the 'surprises' on your first playthrough, the open world parts will only get more tedious on consecutive runs. The amount of reused enemies, especially in the snowy mountain, is laughable. There's like 15 or so enemy types in that area and ONLY 1 of them is unique (well technically... since they also appear in an evergaol and a catacomb) to that area. Apparently everything in this game is built to be able to survive under any climate. Very immersion breaking. They really missed the opportunity to take advantage of the open world formula. At core, it really is just a stretched out version of any of the previous souls game. Even the Legacy Dungeons, which are good for the most part, aren't on par with some of the best levels they made in the past.
The absolute genius behind the design of this game is jawdropping. It has an amazing world filled with **** ton of content and amazing boss fights. It's very tough to put to words how every single element of this game feels so intentional and purposeful. To the beginners don't let the difficulty intimidate you. This was my first soulslike too and had I given up, I would have missed out on one of the greatest gaming experiences of my life! If you don't understand some stuff just look them up on youtube and the game and the characters will guide you the rest of the way! 10/10
how do you make a game so amazing i cannot belive that humans have made this. does the game have flaws? yes obviusley nothing is perfect however they are so small they don't get it the way of what i think is one of the best games of all time.
One of the greatest games I have ever played, the exploration is amazing, you truly feel like an explorer and the world feels real. The combat is great once you get the hang of it and the music is immaculate
This could have been an incredible game but the developers took "difficult for difficulty's sake" to an extremely stupid level. Some of the mechanics of some of the fights are cheesy in the way they are made to be hard in a way that feels artificial and poorly thought out. Some of the fights, such as Malenia, are outright cringe in how artificial the difficulty is made to be. With mechanics that are in no way blockable/maneuverable where you are made to eat the damage so to speak, whether you end up winning the battle or not ends up coming down to RNG. Now, I am not going to waste my precious time fighting an enemy where whether or not I am able to beat them boils down to luck. This is even more stridently the case with "second phase" fights. Some fights have a first phase that is already difficult and time consuming enough where everything has to go right enough to be able to succeed. Then, lo and behold, comes a second phase that leaves no room for anything going wrong. When you die during the second phase of a fight, guess what? You're back right at the very start of the fight, having to have the stars align once again to get to the second phase yet again. That is not a recipe for a good game. There could have been an autosave between boss phases; what does it achieve making a player re-do a first phase of a fight they have already beaten? It really gives the impression that the developers on this game were on a power trip with how much they wanted to maximise difficulty to a gratuitous extent. Now, the only reason I am giving this game a 5 instead of a 3 is because visually the game is beautiful, it is expansive in its scope and the things it gets right in gameplay it gets really right and it can be very fun at times. One of the other negatives of the game that brought the score down is that it is totally lacking in depth of RPG elements. Now this game was my introduction to the FromSoftware franchise and having had a long history of playing RPG's I can say that this game left much to be desired in that department. The itemisation reminds me of something from an adventure game as opposed to an RPG, that's how simplistic it is. Having played games like Morrowind and Diablo II which had brilliant itemisation it really isn't hard to stand on the shoulders of giants and simply emulate what they do if it isn't too hard to source your own style from scratch. This leaves the game world feeling very bland. The side-quests in the game are convoluted and you will be consulting a guide if you want to access most of this content as it is extremely obscure where the starting points of these quests are and even their progression throughout the world. This is in line with the storyline in general, which, let's be honest, is trivial to the point of nonexistence in this game. Furthermore, the game ironically name drops George R. R. Martin as having had a hand in crafting the story, however the extent of his influence on the game appears to be extremely limited and it feels like his name was just used as a marketing tool which I feel is very cynical and unethical of the developers. This game is absolutely overrated in its current form, it really doesn't feel like a finished well curated product. It feels almost as if the developers ran out of time.
Nothing to really say here. There's a reason so many love this game, me being one of those people. Ready for the DLC.
I could not ask for a better game. They come once every 10 years or so. My only gripe is the difficulty! I understand fully the intentions of the developer. It's just frustrating to fight a boss for 3 hours when you have time restrictions. It has caused me to not complete it at this point in time with DLC coming out next month
An epic open world adventure with immaculate art design and some of the most challenging bosses in a videogame. A very solid 10/10, 6-star game and one my personal favorite games of all time. Highly recommend
haven't finished. so far AMAZING, however. i think the magic in this game is super fun. must-play.
good mechanics, nice graphic and a beautiful world well designed bosses and interesting enemies. game is a little tough but that aside a must play gamme
Great visuals, great game design, great difficulty and even greater gameplay. Elden Ring is the ideal way to implement an open world to the soulslike genre.
Too much **** thing? Maybe. Elden Ring takes the souls formula and improves on it in some ways, but hinders it in others. The primary offender for me is making the into a vastly more open-world structure. The experience seems to lose some of the carefully curated design and structure of its predecessors. Nevertheless, the gameplay and creativity shines through, delivering one of the best experiences available for the current generation of consoles.
Elden Ring is a once in a decade game. If you are a Soulsbourne fan this game is definitely for you, as it combines all the best features from Dark Souls, Bloodborne, Sekiro and then added an amazing story on top that you will be completely immersed. The PVP leaves a little to be desired but other than that it’s definitely a masterpiece of FromSoft and Miyazaki. Can’t wait for the shadows of the Erdtree.
Solid 10/10, an open-world soul’s game is what every gamer dreamt for, definitely worth the money
(Read the whole thing please) It is one of the best souls games I played. The combat is perfected, it is open world, it has varieties of content (all bosses took me 50 hours ngl) What it lacks is story, cutscenes etc.I know its a souls game but it would be good if they made our character speak for once like sekiro, and it would also be better if we werent alone most if the time(torrent doesnt count)When you play it, the music, enviroment, player,… all make you feel emptiness. The cutscenes arent even that much, its all just boss transitions. The only thing thst they have to add is more (understandable) story ( not lore ) And some humor would make it perfect. An open world rpg with a lot of npcs and side quests would also have player made choices/dialogues like sekiro The game lacks allies, cutscenes, and mostly player dialogues/choices if it had those 3 and if it was a little bit less empty then I would rate it 10/10 It is almost perfect for me but those are key factors to games : Story (not lote ofc)
Probably my most favorite gaming experience ever. When that main Theme OST kicked on that specific fight.. Just „Chefs kiss“ . Open World and Combat is 10/10 for me!
Bought this game only a few months ago, and it's still fantastic. I'll admit, insanely rage inducing, but when you manage to beat the bosses, there is nothing quite like it. For first time players, strength is recommended, but keep your endurance high for quicker rolls.
One of the best games ever made, period. Pure gameplay from start to finish.
I initially would’ve placed this game at a 7.5, and while I still do think it has flaws, after 800 hours I cannot deny it is my second favorite game of all time, and I gave Lies of P a 9 comparing it to ER so it has to be the same.
A masterpiece that puts companies like Ubisoft and EA to shame. Absolutely had a blast putting in 100hrs+ tiime into the game.
The best RPG game in history foreverI hope the second part will be better and betterI hope it will be released soon and not take ten years
This is one of my favorite games, 100% complete 1000hrs but it's not a perfect game. First playthrough of this game is brutal, there's nothing to track quests so you'll most likely miss most of them and get the bad ending. They have updated it so there's more map markers now so it's not as bad. Only other complaints are the 60fps cap and online servers ****.
Incredible game, I platinum'd it. This was my first soulslike, and because of this game I am on a quest to complete all of fromsoft soulslike. Every area in this game has a different tone, mood, and feel to it like no other. Absolutely loved it.
The world of this game is fascinating and I loved discovering new obscure things about it. It's also just beautiful. It's one of the few games where I tried to find every little thing I could do, just because I wanted to spend more time in this world. The gameplay is fun and combat is challenging but never feels unfair. It never felt like I got my ass handed to me because the game made it impossible, but rather because I had to rethink my strategy or level up a bit more.
A mystical, big open world game from the maker of Dark souls. Uncovering secrets, fighting epic bossfights and get beaten. A lot. Everyone who says this game needs an easy mode doesnt know what a souls like is. The difficulty is a big selling point.
Yes, gameplay is great! Yes, music is incredible! Yes, monsters are grotesque and impressive! Yes, the open world is incredible! Yes,exploration is beautiful! And... YES, it is a Hardcore game that **** you for many hours trying to get to a boss unless you have others to help you. I need to understandt that From Software specializes in online games and not single player experiences... How much I want a Sekiro 2, where your ability depends solely on you and not relying on others... it may be my bad, but this is getting repetitive, these hardcore games that do not allow casual players to embrace and enjoy. This game is simply overhyped and can only be played by hardcore gamers... it is a shame as by only adding a difficulty level could be enjoyedby many other players who only want to have fun. Not for me!
BEST OF THE WORLD. DAHA IYISI YOK. SOULS LIKE OLARAK :)))))))))))))))))))))))
A new standard has been set when it comes to learning curve, immersion and level design. The game is insanely difficult, but in a way that entices the player to learn in a fair way. Level design is fantastic, allowing you to view unreachable spots that challenge you to seek them out. The different biomes are designed beautifully, and bosses are freshly original in their attacking moves and how to defeat them. Really the only gripe I have with the game is that certain fighter classes clearly have an advantage; especially a magic-only build is a much harder, less fair challenge and only a small range of spells are truly useful, so that I was kind of forced not to play as a fully-fledged sorcerer because then the game is much less fun. That doesn't make the game a 9; it's just something that bothered me, but a magic fighter was still possible.
I just don't get the hype. The graphics are beyond bad. There are ps3/360 games that look significantly better. The lack of QoL features like a journal/log or quest markers is insane, and the fact people praise that as if it's a good thing is unreal. No, I don't need my hand held everywhere in a game, but I also don't want a game so convoluted and hard to follow that it basically requires following YouTube guides to complete quests. And don't even get me started on how ridiculously repetitive the open world is. Every mini dungeon or cave is a carbon copy. The whole world uses more copy/paste than FFXIV 1.0 did. It is appalling that this game won GOTY. It's a dated, janky mess.
Is Elden Ring perfect? No, but what game is. Why Elden Ring is a 10 is because of it's breadth, beauty, mystery and combat mechanics. It has no peer - other games can match two or maybe three of these things, but none match all four. After completing Elden, do yourself a favour and complete the Fromsoft tour of games that are all built on the same principles. My suggested order is Dark Souls 1 (Remastered), Bloodborne, Demon Souls (remake), Dark Souls 3 and Sekiro. If that isn't enough Dark Souls then pick up Dark Souls 2, just be warned that this is the only title that has no remake or remaster and infamously had to dial down it's ambitions leaving some parts of the game feeling a little rough, including hit boxes. But there are some fans that will die on a hill defending the title and I would gladly take DS2 over 95% of the games that are out there. Enjoy.
Amazing game! One of the hardest games I ever played but it was so engaging that I never got discouraged enough to stop me from wanting to keep playing. One of the best exploration games I have ever played.
Omg of the greatest epics **** I have ever played. The only downside is that I will never want to endure such a long series of challenges ever again after the 100+ hours I’ve spent in The Lands Between.
It's even more boring than Demon's souls You're going to be stuck reading item descriptions and "grinding". I have a life and a husband, this game is more for highschoolers. Even on top hardware it looks washed, bland and sharpened with a filter. Martin should really focus on his silly in**st books
I don't know about you but this game is one of the best games I have ever played, Margit at first was frustrating as all hell but after that I enjoyed ER with the art style the graphics, the combat was very simple but complicated at the Same time give me so maney choices and ways to play, the bosses in each of there own way really tests your skills and making you better after a boss. The story was quite but very interesting keeping me invested into the game longer, and exploration felt really good despite having no pins to tell you where to go and each ending had its own very different meaning to it, I gotten almost 300 hours of game play and I have platnumed the game I recommend this game highly Get gud scrub
Bosses are so aggresive, the mechanics of thegame are unreliable, like parrying is so inconsistent, and it feels like they want you to play with people or at least with summons, which takes the fun for people who wants to beat it on their own.
the gold standard for action RPG's. fromsoft absolutely nailed it with this one, improving on every single mechanic in their lineage of soulsborne games to create this, their magnum opus. equal parts dark souls and breath of the wild, this is an absolute masterpiece and a landmark achievement in video game development. one of the best games ever made.
thank you Fromsoftware for creating awesome AAA titles without always online requirement.
Elden Ring is personally the best souls game in the series, you can practically create your own difficulty by using different builds and every boss is so unique and this game has some of my favourite bosses in gaming history
It won goty due no more fierce competitors and pvp community tbh. When I played it below 1.04 patch, it was a broken bloatness when the dual encounters started plus those recycled tombs and bosses. But that was just a glance after I experience the most bs design on the franchise on the godskin duo; while one was beyblading endlessly on a loop cancel animation, the other was ganking on your out of sight lock on panic roll adjustment that became worse when pillars destroyed. Even with mimic, 1st time ever I checked a post on fromsoftware games to deal with them so sleep bomb became the bandage saviour. After the fire giant it became a boss rush that I berserk rushed on 2 tries max each boss because I had enough, I wanted to end it asap and dust it into oblivion... if I werent baited by the hype and a friend instead playing Sekiro 1st that I still play everynow and then, I would have dropped midgame.
The world and art direction here are alien, probably the best ever. The combat however is slightly inferior to Dark Souls 3. A nearly perfect game but with some imperfections. It will completely consume you the first time you play it.
Difficulty aside, this is one of the greatest open world adventure games I've ever played. This is truly the one game I wish I could erase from my brain, just to play it for the first time again. Giving it a 9/10 because you can't sekiro parry
I don't have the words to describe Elden ****'s not a perfect game for sure but it has so many qualities that we forget the rest. The +:- An absolutely huge open world to explore freely- The open world is full of surprise (I'm not going to spoil but we are surprised when we discover the scale of this world)- Tons of things to discover (dungeons, caves and castles)- an absolutely phenomenal lifespan.- a varied bestiary BUT…- A magnificent artistic direction- a wave to adventure and exploration, it's not a game that holds the player by the hand and that's what makes his strength, each player will follow his own path. The -:- …Bosses who repeat themselves too often unfortunately (we often face the same bosses several times, especially and especially towards the end of the game) - I didn't find the soundtrack phenomenal (it's not bad but From Softwares has accustomed us to better especially with Bloodborne)Clearly I think Elden Ring is the richest open world in exploration to date. This is FS's first open world game and they hit hard, very hard. Even if the game is not made for everyone, especially because of its difficulty and it is a game that requires time to be devoted to it, it is certainly one of the greatest games of all **** big strong point of ER is its OW, which is one of the best open world ever created.
Best game ever i love it Certainly! Elden Ring has garnered praise for several reasons: Vast and Beautiful World: The game features an expansive open-world environment with diverse landscapes. From lush forests to eerie dungeons, the Lands Between offers a captivating and visually stunning experience. Monstrous Menagerie: Elden Ring introduces a terrifying array of creatures and bosses. Each encounter is unique, challenging, and rewards strategic thinking. From colossal dragons to eerie spirits, the game’s bestiary keeps players on their toes. Deep Leveling System: The game’s leveling system is intricate and encourages experimentation. Players can customize their character’s abilities, weapons, and magic using Runes. This depth adds replayability and personalization. Atmospheric and Thrilling: Elden Ring maintains the signature dark and mysterious atmosphere seen in FromSoftware games. The haunting soundtrack, cryptic lore, and intense boss fights create an immersive experience. Spirit Companions: Obtaining the Summoner’s Bell and Spirit Ashes allows players to summon helpful spirits during battles. Having spectral allies can turn the tide in challenging encounters. Rune Farming: While boss fights can be tough, players can level up by farming runes. A secret portal leads to enemies that yield valuable runes, allowing gradual character growth. Weapon Upgrades: Beyond character leveling, players can enhance their weapons using Smithing Stones. This adds another layer of progression and combat effectiveness. In summary, Elden Ring combines breathtaking visuals, challenging gameplay, and a rich world to explore. It’s a must-play for fans of action RPGs and those seeking a gripping adventure! ️
What's not to love? Elden Ring truly engages my sense of adventure when I play. Combat is smooth and fun to engage with. The story and lore is deep and complex.
The game itself has things done very well, the artistic team, the setting and the level design, it is amazing, it is one of the best I have seen. And it has something very good, which is that it is a huge game in itself, without DLCs. It is a game whose optional questline is so long and so complete that it seems better than a paid DLC for Fallout, for example, without exaggerating. Mainly in the defects I have realized that as a casual player, crafting is irrelevant. If you do speedruns or no-hit runs, crafting is essential but I don't think it gives the normal player anything at all. The controls could be polished especially with the horse. The issue of not being able to get the map in combat doesn't contribute anything, and it makes you angry. I'm not going to go into the story since it's typical of Souls not to find out about the story, but I think the way it is told could be improved, although I don't take away it any points for this. The issue of rewards is a disaster. You kill a huge dragon and they give you a lightning stone that you will never use in your **** life. Then you can ONLY do the questlines by following guides, which is okay, I like to research on Google, but no one can do them on their own and I think this should have been improved. I'm not saying that you have to include a question mark on the map for you to go there, but something, some kind of indication. Then something that is terrible is doing a quest and they give you something that is of no use to you, it would be great to know what they are going to give you in that quest when you finish it, a bow, a magic spell, or whatever, but knowing it to continue it or not continue it. But without a doubt the worst thing is the escalation of difficulty at the end. At the end of the game there are like 4 or 5 bosses that come all in a row that have a fairly high level of difficulty, and in the end people end up destroying their character and making one of these builds that are very broken just to be able to get through the end of the game , What have the developers done? patching objects and things so that there are no broken builds. This has screwed up the game a lot, because it takes away all the replayability. I tried to do it with a warrior of strength and life and I couldn't, I started from scratch with a magician, I tried it with that lightning bolt build, they patched it when I was finishing the game, and that **** lightning bolt doesn't do anything anymore . Why am I going to spend hours with another class of character like a Confessor to test the Faith spells if at the end of the game I'm not going to be able to do it and I'll have to reconfigure everything by looking for one of these very broken builds? So I think that taking all that into account, a 9/10 is very good. Verdict: recommended. I have played two years later, now in 2024 and most of my thoughts remain still the same. Dungeon assets and enemies are so repetitive, and I think this could be upgraded just by modifying the enemies or the area bossed a bit. For example Sacroderm Duo appears thousands times, they could have modified them using a mask, or a pendent, or a neckless...This way you make them a bit different and makes the game non repetitive.
My first Souls-like, can't lie,it was painfull at the beginning and also at the end, but it was one of the most incredible experience in my videogame life ! Lore is rich, fight are intense and graphism and design are great ! And the map is huge, you can explore without getting bored for hours.
When I first played ER with seemingly everyone else in spring 2022, it was my first souls-like and a great game about which I obsessed (I even named my best weapons and spirits)! I loved the fact you could make yourself Gandolf, Kratos, Shinobi, or whoever. But I thought it was flawed in how long it was, how unrewarding treasures could be if they didn't match your build, and how the early game is more fun with frequent leveling up and painstakingly crafted areas. Ultimately ER made me want to try other games that were like it but even better. Here we are 2 years later, and now I appreciate just how wonderful Elden Ring is. For all its glaring flaws, no other game approaches ER's fun customizable combat and builds. No other souls-like (mostly) respects your time by not subjecting you to boss runs -- the equivalent of lengthy unskippable cutscenes before each boss attempt. I originally gave ER a 9 on my first 100+ hours. On my new playthrough 2 years later, I'd say it's a 10 given how apparently hard it is for any other game to come close.
Elden Ring is simply an outstanding game which represents a remarkable accomplishment in the realm of open-world gaming, skillfully merging FromSoftware's intense combat mechanics with awe-inspiring exploration. The expansive and stunning world is brimming with hidden mysteries waiting to be uncovered, while the diverse character customization options provide players with unparalleled freedom. The challenging boss fights deliver a thrilling and demanding experience, establishing its status as one of the finest action RPGs to date. Nevertheless, some may find the difficulty progression to be lacking, as the only strong areas are the optional ones which present a greater challenge compared to the main storyline. Despite this minor setback, Elden Ring is a must-have for enthusiasts of immersive journeys and intricate world design.
Looks beautiful however I'm too much of a casual gamer now to play this. I don't have the time anymore to constantly fight just to die again until I might get good. I know if I was 20 again and had the mentality to just constantly sink hours in I could maybe get somewhere. I didn't find it enjoyable anymore
There are to many things i dislike about this and i think its a Mid Game. I dont know why Fromsoftware failed with this so much.
One of the best games ever made. Gameplay is amazing with many diverse ways of approaching enemies and the ability to switch combat styles mid game. The story is great as well with multiple interesting endings adding replay value. Highly recommend to anyone who has not tried the game
it is little fun but verrrrrrrrrrrrrrry hard to me first, can't know where to go second, my character's action is tooooooooooo slow so ido mid-term drop-off
This is my first souls like game and I was frustrated at first because I was so used to the basic, story driven kind of games but I gave it a chance and “got gud” and I’ve never been so addicted to any other games since. A truly spectacular game and I look forward to future titles from Fromsoftware.
I mean what else can you say? One of the best games ever made. If I had children I might love this game more Lol.
Amazing game with unique combat, gameplay, bosses and most importantly the open world/exploration. Another masterpiece from Miyazaki. Perfect for someone who wants an open world rpg experience and the best entry point for the souls series.
One of the best games of all time easely, the only ones i see who dislike it are playstation fanboys and/or lazy gamers.
Even if you have never played one of Fromsoft's previous games, give this absolutely astonishing game a try. From its tremendous gameplay to its baffling world, there has never been a game that has came so close to being considered perfect in my eyes. Great Combat, intriguing Story. 10/10
One of the best if not the best soul games. Beautiful sceneries. Endless weapon choices. Challenging and fun to play. I always remember the feeling when defeating a boss after countless death. It makes me feel I can overcome any obstacle in life despite how many fails
One of the best games of all time. Immense lore partly thanks to George RR Martin, some of the best artstyle in gaming history, a open world that is amazing and opposite to the ubisoft formula. Gameplay that is addicting and bosses that only fromsoft can make
One of the best games ever made for souls fans. The bosses, dungeons, and weapons are some of the best in the franchise. However the replayabiltiy is low because it takes 30 hrs of running to get to where you need to go and the explorability of it is ruined after the 1st playthrough. The catacombs and mines are redundant and boring.
Battle system is not improving. It is so boring. and enemy is too strong. there should be easy mode!!
Just really an awesome and challanging game. With lots of secrets to discover, a fun combat system and more.
Elden Ring it's the perfect game, it has a vast and beautiful world to explore, tons of build choices and extremely unique bosses.
The Perfect Game. The Lore, The Visuals The Gameplay is the reclamation of Miyazaki’s expertise. I have full confidence in FromSoftware that the DLC a masterpiece.
Ok, I really like this game. This game definitely deserves a nine out of ten, but I feel it could’ve been better in some ways. I feel that I don’t really like the storyline, when demons souls I think is just so much better set out. And Elden ring is a great challenge. But it needs some improvement.
One of the best gaming experiences ever. its definitely amazing game and %100 deserved GOTY 2022
Elden Ring. Words can’t describe how amazing this game is. On my PS4 I got a game called Sekiro. My first fromsoftware game. I was absolutely horrendous at it, but I loved it. Could never beat it. When I got my PS5, I downloaded Demon Souls remastered, super cool, but it just didn’t hook me. Never beat it. Than Elden Ring came out. I figured it would be the same, like it, **** at it, never beat **** something was very different right away. I will never forget opening that door into Limgrave for the first time. I can’t even describe it,but I truly believe it is something all gamers should experience. And I did **** at it, I died hundreds of times.(generous very well could have been thousands) but when I say I was hooked, I was hooked. I could not stop playing, exploring.. I was fully immersed into this beautiful world. Hundreds of hours later I beat it for the first time. I nearly cried. I thought that was it, would never play again, but I didn’t stop, I did NG+ and was truly amazed by how it didn’t feel repetitive, I found NEW things, areas, quests, npcs, lore… soon enough I was on another NG+ and looking at the trophies, I only needed 1 or two more trophies to Platinum. And I did. One of the most rewarding and meaningful gaming moments of my life. Since then, I’ve beaten Sekiro, Demon SoulsPS5, Dark Souls 3, and currently playing Bloodborn with intentions of play the other dark souls games after. Elden Ring completely changes my gaming genre. Souls like have become my favorite genre of game by a MILE. But nothing has come close to Elden Ring. It truly is my favorite game, and I will die on this hill of saying it is the GREATEST game of all time. I can’t recommend a game more than this.
I was sceptical about Soulsborne games going open world, but when I got it I couldn't put it down. The best game from FromSoftware. A masterpiece!!!
I finally broke my streak and finished my first souls game after going through 3 games starting with "Bloodborne", then followed by "Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice" and "Elden Ring". I stopped playing all of these games after putting a few hours into each and moved on. The main reason that kept me from continuing my journey into each of them was the fact that there's no objective marker, a deep menu explaining what I need to do or a proper story with interesting characters guiding me. The game wants you to find your way by yourself and exploring its vast world through your own pace. I've tried doing what the game wants me to do 3 times and playing it properly without any guide from the internet or any other souls player, and that, led to me uninstalling the game after every single try. That was about a year ago. One day, after watching a video about a souls player playing Elden Ring and explaining the story and the mechanics of the game while playing it, the thought of playing Elden Ring came to my head again. But this time, I was going to get help from outside sources and watch guides on how to actually beat the game. That was a tremendous help and boosted my motivation. I'm gonna start with the negatives. After putting 90 hours, I finally platinumed the game and beat it. And with all that, I think that this has to be most Over-Rated game of all time with a metascore of 96. The game doesn't explain it's story at all and wants you to find out about it though it's item description and environmental story telling, which I feel extremely overwhelming for new players especially for it's massive open-world. I know that most souls games are exactly like this and a lot of people enjoy this type of story telling, but I do not like it to be honest. Even after watching videos on the story and lore of the game, I still find it extremely disappointing. If there was a good story, with great side characters motivating you to push through the game, It would have been 10 times more enjoyable, but Elden Ring lacks in that part. Even the game lacks great boss fights which is the main reason you get exciting about beating the game in the first place. None of the fights except for the early boss fights feel fair. They all have delayed combo attacks with AoE that one shots you even with the most powerful builds and stats, and it forces you to use summons and changing your build for most of it's the prime bosses. The game gives you so many items to use but you are only gonna use a few of them at the time depending on your build and this, completely removes the enjoyment of exploring dungeons and camps since you are gonna end up with items you're not gonna use and small amount of runes. Speaking of dungeons, FromSoftware did a great job of copy pasting 4-5 designed layouts and randomizing them with random copy-pasted bosses and calling it a day. And, so many people are praising it for being unique when it comes to open-world games. There's so much to talk about when it comes to discussing the gameplay aspect of Elden Ring and I can't include all of that in my short review of this game. After reading all these, you're gonna say, So why did you gave it an 8/10 ???. Lemme tell you: The world design, The art-syle and music!!! Even the enemy designs. It's so good that you can't give the game a low score even tho it has a lot of serious problems. With all that, I'm gonna say that I'm gonna try more souls games and continue my journey with them from the experience I got from playing Elden Ring.
i Just can’t get into these Souls games. They really should have a difficulty setting for more casual gamers who don’t want to die every two minutes. I hope they change this aspect of the game.
Masterpiece in merging Open-World & Soul-Like. Nevertheless, the end game map design was disappointing, and bosses are less exciting as you progressed. Still, great time killer.
Fromsoftware’s magnum opus. This game was my first from the company, and my life as a gamer has completely changed since 2022. Since then, I’ve beat DS1, DS3, Sekiro, and Bloodbourne; still Elden Ring has been a cut above and gave me a feeling I have never had from a video game.
amazing game with many flaws, but could not recommend enough even to a newcomer to souls games
While i almost quit because it was too difficult (i like difficult games) at the beginning, Elden ring is quite simply a incredible, masterful, one of a kind, game. A gift to all gaming fans.
Elden Ring is a very interesting entry in Miyazaki's Souls series. Less unique for the genre than Sekiro, Elden Ring is basically Dark Souls 4 with a Breath of the Wild-styled open world, and while the results are exceptional, some of the appeal of the traditional Souls level design is lost in the transition. Having said that, the FromSoftware formula was in need of a shake up, and Miyazaki and his team have succeeded in implementing the open world design seamlessly into that Souls formula. This is without question one of the best open world designs you'll find in an open world game, with vast dungeons and filled with exciting content. The only drawback is that side dungeons begin to feel repetitive, and the game is so dense that it may have you feeling exhausted with it before the end -- an issue not seen in the best of FromSoftware's library.
Up there as the best game I have ever played. It has everything I would've dreamed up as a kid for my perfect game. Must play.
Just one word for this game: PERFECT!! This is my best game of all time
Yeah its really good. No game like it. The immense sense of scale is unlike anygame I've ever played before (and so far) after. The ending **** assss though.
Most incredible gaming experience I've ever had. Breathtaking visuals throughout the open world, a world which is designed for the player to explore organically, following their own curiosity rather than map markers. Near perfect game.
Short Review: Elden ring is a game with a beautiful open world PACKED with dense content. Its games like these that should make nintendo nervous. Check it out. TRUST ME
Its Dark Souls, but bigger and with some Tencent influence....which is not the best thing in the world, bit the show must go on.
Set in the stunning, decaying Lands Between, Elden Ring is an iconic, memorable action RPG. The plot is cryptic - you have to put in quite some effort or more likely consult the internet to fully appreciate the lore, and even then... But what really sticks with you is the atmosphere and tone that the game strikes. The environment tells a story of morbid, haunting beauty that's well conveyed and utterly captivating. The combat and difficulty of enemy encounters is what the Souls games are known for, and this is no walk through the park. It's only occasionally frustratingly difficult, though, and the challenge is a rewarding one. With time, you can make your character decently overpowered, and the amount of unique weapons and spells and summons you're rewarded with is impressive. Of course, it goes without saying that the boss fights are epic and a real highlight of Elden Ring. It's a proper game. There's no **** busywork, with the huge Lands Between filled with stuff for you to explore organically. Elden Ring offers a coherent package with a first-rate style and identity. Ultimately, it should go down as a classic of its genre and a paradigm of open world level design.
This game is it without a shadow of a doubt one of the best video games ever created. 2011 Dark Souls, Resident Evil 2, Metal Gear Solid, Contra, and every other game in my all time favorite list of video games have dropped one spot in the list thanks to this game. This is an absolute new take on open world games.
This game is an orgasmic masterpiece. This game is why people ****. This belongs in the Bible. Down to the graphics, the gameplay, the mechanics, enemy’s, and literally everything this game is perfect.
Absolutely! Here's a seamless and concise summary of your review:Elden Ring shines as 2022's gaming masterpiece, captivating with its revival of deep, exploratory joy and offering over 80 magical hours of gameplay that every PS5 and XBOX X owner should experience. As my introduction to the Souls-like genre, the game presented a fresh challenge with its unique gameplay mechanics and priority settings, deeply immersing me into Miyazaki's intricately crafted world. The plot, shrouded in mystery and complexity, demanded external resources for a fuller understanding, reflecting the game's depth and aligning with genre expectations. The steep learning curve, especially in mastering controls, not only heightened the sense of achievement but also solidified my engagement with the game. Elden Ring's open world, a new feature for the series, offered an unparalleled sense of freedom and exploration, sparking curiosity and discovery at every turn, much like the exploratory joy found in Minecraft. The graphics, with options for native 4K at 30fps or 2K at 60fps, were breathtaking, allowing me to tailor my experience between visual fidelity and performance without sacrificing the game's stunning visuals. The musical score seamlessly enhanced the gameplay, with the memorable main theme evoking a deep emotional connection and driving my progression. Despite spending over 85 hours in the game, the lore remained enigmatic, revealing its true depth only through dedicated research and adding to the game's mystique and replayability. While the intricate controls and dense lore posed challenges, they contributed to the game's charm, making any perceived flaws negligible. As my first foray into this genre, Elden Ring set a high bar, leaving me with little to criticize and much to admire, embodying a true gaming masterpiece that challenges and delights in equal measure.
First, my initial review was a 1, then an 8, and now it is a 10. i.e. I hated this game at first but love it now. If you are new, keep at it and read guides on starting the game. I don't like that you need to review guides on how to level up quickly, especially at the start of the game. I feel like the first camp you come across should have sufficient rune drops to allow you to level up sufficiently without having to grind for a while. But, with the guides out there, it makes it worth your while on giving you information on great rune farm locations. When you are new, you need to get to the Greyroll's Dragonbarrow boulder farm. Thankfully, the internet is full of info on what to do and where to go.
This game is not just a normal game. This is way more beyond than game. The art, lore, characters, everything is unique. Everyone need to play this MASTERPIECE because there are no game like this ever. And those who hate the game is prob Ubisoft fans so don't let them to lose your interest in this MASTERPIECE.
Very challenging piece of art that stands above the Dark Souls trilogy. Open world full of bosses and areas to explore.
Fromsoft did it again. They defined and perfected this genre at this point. A must play even for newcomers.
One of the best games I've ever played and is From Software at its finest. The story and lore is well written and interesting. The open world can be a bit barren at times but there was always something interesting or beautiful to look at. The game offers a great challenge with some of the best bosses ever conceived in gaming. So much content and so much to do it's mind blowing.
While I did participate in multiplayer with a friend and do everything effectively twice, I was shocked to find myself at about 120 hours into the game and still hadn't seen the credits. For any player that's wanting to skip all of the exploration, story, and world-building, Elden Ring can certainly cater to you. However, as someone that likes to take my time with my games, I enjoyed being a part of this world for so long. Full retail price doesn't even cover the amount of content and fun you can have in this game. While I did get frustrated with certain mechanics and features of the game (like the boss's unwillingness to stop their combos for one second to give you a chance to attack), I felt like this was FromSoft's culmination of countless lessons. As someone that just finished Dark Souls 1 not too long ago, I loved all of the quality-of-life changes they applied to this formula. This really is a remarkable experience and one of the best games I've ever played in my life.
From Software is simply astonishing, Elden Ring is one of the greatest games ever made.
This game hit my expectations of what a modern game should be, and kept me wanting more even after I got platinums from the first time, which was a feature I liked that the game had, I still went through completed it multiple times.
very very good game for those who love genre! There are many positive things which makes game top, but I want highlight several thing I do hate: 1. Coop is pretty easy, I wish it would x2 harder (or at least setting to change it) 2. Coop is very NOT smooth. You always have to reconnect, which not that straight forward (no indication). And You have to finish game TWICE because only host loot/boss counts 3. PVP/ invitations often laggy (you can't even see the lag/ping)
Just one word needed : Masterpiece. Especially if you actually 100% the game(achievement and all).
Combat is satisfying, exploration is compelling, and the variety of builds and weapons you can utilize is incredible. A few minor things keep this from being a 10 for me, such as multiplayer and late game balance issues and a finite number of respecs and top level upgrade materials. But overall Elden Ring is a masterpiece worth spending hundreds of hours in.
The single best rpg of all time No question RISE YE TARNISHED Searching for the Elden Ring has never been more fun
Loved Elden Ring and the exploration. You just have to look around every nook and cranny to discover everything. The reason I vote 8 out of 10 is because if this is your 1st From Soft game then you're lost and have to watch a bunch of videos to understand how to play. 2nd, yeah I will catch flack from this but it is too hard. The casual gamer won't get past the first couple of bosses let alone beat it. To gamers, it's 9/10 or 10/10. To casual gamers 7/10 or 8/10. Love it and will support From Soft From here on out.
Elden Ring, is the pinnacle of Souls Games, and the lore, gives so much depth to this world. Thank You Vaatividya!!!
Elden ring is the best game I have ever **** open world and bosses is just perfect.
The game is overrated and doesn't deserve all the awards. How can you give such high ratings to a game without a plot? Everything in the game of the year must be perfect, not just the gameplay. At the same time, for my taste the battles are monotonous, I finished the game 70 percent and just forgot about it
The scope and size of this game is unprecedented. The only bits of critique I have is that the combat system isn't my favorite of the soulsborne games. As well as some areas being handcrafted and designed to perfection contrasting to the otherwise same-y bland biomes you find in the greater open world.
One of the best games I've ever played. Gameplay 10/10, Mechanics 10/10, Bosses 10/10, Lore 10/10, Open World 10/10, my only critic is that its impossible to find everything by your own like weapons, locations and Questlines
The culmination of the Souls like games. The classic platform fighting game taken to the ultimate stance of 3D architecture in a open world structure. Fighting is refined, game mechanics are near perfect. Level design is extraordinaire and together with world building it breathes life into the gaming experience. Sound design and sound track are also of superior quality and integral to the Elden Ring immersion experience. The story is mysterious by nature, spiritual, puzzle like, dream like and just as level exploration and boss fighting, part of what will motivate you to go until the end. Providing you're up for the challenge. The Elden Ring unique experience. Now after more than 100 hours into it, I might say it went on for too long and the dungeons got repetitive. That's why this is not a 10. But still, when we hear the words video game, Elden Ring shall be one of the meanings of it. This is an epic.
It is by far the best of the so-called Souls genre games. Don't expect a great story or graphics, but it has done a pretty top job in those areas as well. You feel its real success in the gameplay part.
Never played this game but i give it a 10 because why not it looks fun but i dont like dark souls games s
Not really my cup of tea, but a well done game nevertheless. If you're looking for a relentlessly challenging melee combat game, this will be perfect for you. I would have enjoyed it more myself if the story wasn't so buried and the characters you encountered had more to say than a cryptic message. The open world is stunning and well designed although navigating through it feels awkward at times; especially when platforming is required. Might give it another chance sometime in the future.
The best FromSoftware game so far. They improved the Gameplay even more since Dark Souls 3 and the huge open World offers hours upon hours of Exploration
Pros Very impressive enemy and world design. Various types of builds are available, that can change the game experience for different players. Maintains quality of dark soul legacy. Lots of hidden adventures on the map. Cons, The story is too complicated to understand first you should do tons of research. Some enemy types are almost impossible to deal with specific builds. When you see Malenia, turn back and run as fast as you can.
This. Game. ****. The combat system is clunky and my hits do almost no damage. The controls are bad and the map is designed bad and the bosses are bad and I keep dying. This game should add an update for different difficulties.
Dark Souls: Mainstream Edition. I suppose it's not a bad game, as long as one likes getting killed many times in their spare time.
Elden Ring is a breathtakingly ambitious collaboration between FromSoftware and George R.R. Martin that exceeds all expectations. This action-packed RPG is an absolute triumph, blending the unparalleled genius of Hidetaka Miyazaki's game design with Martin's unparalleled storytelling prowess, creating an experience that is truly **** its core, Elden Ring is a celebration of the very best aspects of the Dark Souls series, while also pushing boundaries to deliver an entirely new and captivating adventure. The world-building is a work of pure art, with each intricate environment meticulously crafted to the finest detail. From the vast open fields to the foreboding dungeons, every corner of the map holds surprises and secrets that make exploration both thrilling and **** combat in Elden Ring is as brutal and satisfying as one would expect from a FromSoftware game. Each encounter is a dance of life and death, requiring precise timing, strategic thinking, and patience. The addition of mounted combat adds a new layer of excitement, allowing players to engage in epic battles with colossal enemies, creating moments that are nothing short of **** of the standout features of Elden Ring is its engrossing narrative. George R.R. Martin's involvement shines through, infusing the game with his signature mastery of storytelling. The lore is rich, mysterious, and filled with memorable characters that leave a lasting impact. The dialogue and world-building are Shakespearean, with every interaction feeling weighty and meaningful.Furthermore, Elden Ring boasts an exceptional soundtrack that perfectly complements each moment, enhancing the emotional impact of every scene. The haunting melodies and thunderous orchestrations add an extra layer of immersion, making every triumph or setback feel all the more potent.While Elden Ring is undoubtedly a masterpiece, it does have a few minor flaws. Occasionally, the game's difficulty can feel overwhelming, especially for newcomers to the genre. The learning curve may be steep, but the sense of accomplishment that comes with conquering these challenges is well worth the effort.
completely redefines the modern AAA formula existing in 2023. one of a kind game that will set the standards for new releases
I hate that they dont have like difficulty settings, would be more fun for me. Still a nice game but you can see that the Engine is old poor optimized but the graphics is good
This game is far too difficult. Elder Rings needs to take a hint from Insomniac's brilliant Spider-Man series and make these games more like Spider-Man.
This game takes you out of this world by giving you the choice of playing in numerous ways. An open world game with swords, magic, mythical creatures and incantation, as well as a goal to bring a new age in the world by defeating demi gods and gods themselves is what awaits you in this hero adventure.
Don’t get why all the casual-gamers gotta buy souls-like game just to give up and come crying to make bad review. One of the best souls game i’ve ever played, it has so much to offer, not so challenging tho if u alrdy played sekiro and bloodborne, but the world has so much to explore. 10/10 no doubt. GOTY totally deserved
Bought this game because of all the hype and I was nervous to play since I had never played a souls game before, I was NOT disappointed. This game reeled me in pretty much immediately even though I had no idea what I was doing. I’ve spent hundreds of hours playing it and still haven’t discovered everything. It’s a challenge for sure, but everyone knows that. Graphics are amazing, music is great, combat is exciting. 10/10
《MASTER GAME @ PLAY》 《MASTER @ GENRE EVOLUTION》 《MASTER @ ALL GENRE INSPIRATOR》 《MASTER @ TECHNICAL OPTIMUM》 《MASTER @ CONTENT CULTIVATING》 Elden Ring's play pleasure intens and immersing open world, "induviduality" real like kinetix's: each character, every creature rigs functionality for movesets and animations, as well as collision feedback, physics interactions kinetix, creates intense realism @ native gameplay and visualy immersive's unlike anything seen in other games. The smart Aİ opponents up to fast-paced reactions to players actions ongoing fights, this level of intricacy combined with the highest art • artstle, artdesign characteristics and clean, crispy, sharp, much lively kinetix details and graphics, 《 smoth animations and clean motions!! real / native!! all @ frame!! 》with atmospheric & immersivity with ingame 60FPS, truly makes the marvelous native experience. Players Individuality; upon your preferences and PlayerSkills, LevelUp-decisions resulting into native GamePlay°CollussionFedback°Physics creating kinetix. Hundreds varied weapons each different fightingstyles n movesets, swords, spears, axts, giant crow claw, hammers, alchemie, sorcerys, special move sets, arrow shotings, magic traps n shots, healing and more, all can be set combinational and on the fly fast switched to use, optimized for fast-paced actions. Engaging huge amount varied opponents and bossfights in ongoing immersive huge openworld's much varied and very lively areas, envorinment's: huge complex architecture's, open field's, catacombs, somewehere fantasys, somewhere more secret, castles, villages .. captivating juyful and exciting explorations, trough many different storline paths ^__^ high art originality in chracters, npc friends and opponent body language, characteristics interactivitys, all opponents movesets, strong n decent dialogs simple and complex meanings, all in SoulGames manner, offering very fair joy and skillz freedom fitting challanging pleasure. ●Gameplay: 10+ ●Graphics: 10 ●Artdesign & Visuals: 10 ●Story: 10+ ●Dialogs: 10+ ●Content: 10+ ●NG+: 10+ ●Innovation in genre: 10+ ●Evolutional improves genres "YES"《☆ORIGINAL☆》
Game world is bland. Story and cinematics is almost non-existant. NPCs are boring and only give riddles. Gameplay is also boring and made for mmo-kiddies that like to grind and grind and grind.
Elden Peak is one of the best souls game I ever played. Coop finaly means something and is also pretty good solo. But it's a souls game, wich means yall gonna lose alot of braincells if you're not ready.
This game is simply amazing, great gameplay, I spent a lot of hours enjoying it.
GOTY! You must play! 10/10 All is wonderful, beautiful and aaahhh. I can't write beacuse I playing Elden Ring
this game doesn't hold your hand throughout the whole journey, it actually lets you do whatever the hell you want, buy it!
probably one of the best souls style games out there, the combat is great, and the scenery is really nice to look at with some very detailed looking locations, i have not finished the game but from the hours that i have spent on it i can say for sure that if you want to get into a souls style game, this is definitely the one to start with
One of the best game this generation, fantastic open world, great design, top score in all aspects. 10/10
I hate this game and everything it stands for with burning passion. 10/10, absolute masterpiece.
Amazing open world, very fun to explore and full of content. Amazing areas all with unique vibes and enemies. Amazing legacy dungeons with amazing level design. Amazing main bosses with complicated movestes and cool attacks. Amazing build variety with tonsof spells, weapons and talismans. Only downsides are some reskin bosses and caves and dungeons that become a bit repetitive after the midgame. But overall it's an incredible game that in my opinion everyone should try
I wish From would ditch their 20 billion hit combo light speed stunlock enemy design that they've been rolling with since Dark Souls 3. It doesn't at all fit the kind of slow and methodical movement and controls your character has. This game simultaneously has some of the best and worst boss and enemy design I've ever seen anywhere. Aside from that, everything else from the open world to the level design (aside from the dungeons) and the dynamic story you can create yourself is unlike anything else.
I am old enough that my gaming days go back to when Mike Tyson's punch out was brand new. I say this because Punch Out taught us that it didn't matter what your reflexes were like, it didn't matter how you wanted to do the fight, it only mattered that you pushed the right button when you got the right cue to do so. Elden Ring and Fromsoft as I understand it, since Elden is the first time I've played a Souls game since the first one, has evolved along the wrong lines. If I wanted to engage in an escape where I simply needed to use proper timing to produce a desired result I'd learn to play the piano. There are some good aspects of the game to be sure. I love open world games, I like leveling, crafting, looting, and surviving. However, I hate games that are more akin to typing skills than an illusion of real skills. Dodging in this game doesn't rely on seeing and reacting, but by dying enough times to know what happens next. That's notaccomplishment to me, it's sheer stubbornness, and some endorphins from overcoming. I have gaming skills. I played through both Portal games in less than 8 hours per. I play games like Red Dead 2 and Fallout 4 without using game mechanics like Dead Eye and VATS. I can use a console controller to take down trolls who use terms like PC master race. Aside from that I have IRL martial arts, sword fighting, and archery skills (Olympic level athletes would likely have beaten me in my day, but not easily). I get the game has universal acclaim, but that's only among players, and if I wanted to impress someone with the same skill set it takes to play Elden Ring, I'd memorize all of Shakespeare's plays and sonnets, and then show off by having someone shout out a random sonnet number or act and scene then type that one out at very high speed.
When it comes to combat and feel of the combat (responsiveness and weight of attacks), the Souls series has no rival. So yes, gameplay being the most important part, I'd definitely give it a 10 here. However, my main criticism is that the game relies on its gameplay entirely. The world, while absolutely gorgeous (talking from an artstyle perspective), is a bit too big and has many re-used assets, especially when it comes to bosses and dungeons. The story, while good, still suffers from Miyazaki's unnecessary ambiguousness, and more importantly this is transferred into the quest design. I'll just say this: good luck in completing the quests without following an internet guide. Other than this, I'm glad that FromSoftware became even more popular with this game's success.
Absolutely astonishing game it's easily the best purchase i have ever made.
best game by far I've played, I dont know how I'll ever play another open world or if they'll live up to my expectations anymore
The gameplay is amazing it hade an interesting and fun to explore open world it was kinda confusing at first. But there was a lot to explore The bosses were very fun even though they were reused sometimes. The combat was fun The bad thing is I had almost no idea what was happening in the story while i was playing
A mashup of everything great about the soulsborne genre. While hard to replay casually, it is one of if the greatest games of all time and well deserved GOTY.
Best gamer ever made by far!i cant wait for the dlc, gonnabe so crazy,or the people who complains abou the graphics, are people crazy ngl,the game is realy beatifu. thas its, the goat of the games, THE GOAT
Disappointing! Texture and overall graphics quality are on the level of mid-2010's at best. The combat system is outdated. Bosses and enemies are heavily reused. The learning curve that Miyazaki was famous for is no more.
Gorgeous open world with just the right amount of difficulty. The amount of content in this game is amazing and there are so many secrets to be found. The most perfect game I played, can't wait for the DLC!
I wish I didn't but the digital version so I could get my money back!! Now it maybe a good game and I'm just trash but I'm not a bad gamer and I've died at least 100 **** very new to this type of game friendly. 98% of all other games at least give you a fighting chance
My verdict: 7/10.  Drawbacks:   1- Old graphics. 2- Released with broken frame rates (still is.) 3- Sluggish character move speed. 4- Bosses/enemies overly unrealistic delayed attack patterns. 5- The game added an items cooking feature that the player less often utilizes. You end up picking so many items but almost never have to use them, which feels like a wasted effort in the end. 6- Online summoning feature doesn’t work in several locations. 8- Frequent pop in even when set to graphics mode, especially in open landscapes.  I have to say I was disappointed coming into this game with high expectations that I carried from Dark Souls and Sekiro, especially when it comes to visuals and fight speed.  In conclusion, and not discounting the positives and level of engagement and immersion this game offers, I strongly believe FromSoftware could have done better.
For the TLDR; it wasn't fun, more like painful torture. Maybe the initial user experience was better, however my experience was awful. For the actual design and look of the game, I rate it easily a 9.5 to 10. The level of detail and look was incredible and breathtaking. For the musical score, I have to be honest, I was hoping for a bit more variation. While the sound quality, and mixing was excellent, the music was too somber and depressing. You expect it when rummaging through dungeons, however, there's no uplifting moments in the game, it's all depressing. For that I give a 6. The game design is a mess. What I mean is, the user is set into an open world with no questline to follow, no guide, zip. Figure it out on your own and hope for the best. You don't know if you're supposed to head north south, whatever. The vast level of secrets and quest details would be impossible to follow without a youtube video. How they figured these things out is beyond me. Sometime you exhaust all dialog with an NPC, only now you have to search for them again in some other part of the world and hope the questline isn't broken. It would have been nice if there were actual functioning towns and places where every NPC isn't an enemy. Every city, barracks, castle, etc. is an enemy camp aside from the Roundtable and a select few other places. The biggest issue though, is the gameplay. I'm spamming the buttons to run, drink a health potion, whatever, and my character either isn't moving or responds too late while the boss jumps across a massive chasm in a fraction of a second only to slice me to ribbons multiple times before I can do anything. I was one-shot killed so many times it was ridiculous. The screen changes to second phase of the boss and within one second, no lying, insta-killed. For some inexplicable reason, healing your character requires you to come to a slow walk; you can drink a health potion while running. So, running away and trying to drink a health potion after you've had a special attack that took 90% of your health away just means they will hit you multiple times in the back as you try to regain health. I leveled to 206, re-specced multiple times, used numerous buffs (trinkets, armor, potions, flasks, weapons, etc.) and still got my ass handed to me. I play for fun and relaxation, not to get demoralized and frustrated to the point I'm cursing at my screen. I enjoy a challenge but the game just wasn't fun for me. I've been gaming since the early 80's, from Atari, PC, multiple gens of multiple platforms (all of them). I've never played a game that's pissed me off as much as this. I was so excited to play it since I'm a huge fan of RPG's and the genre. This game will break you.
greatest game ever, actually plays like a modern toaster. I will allow this one to live one forever.
Echoing the sentiments of previous players, this game stands out as a refreshing change, especially for those disillusioned with the direction of mainstream gaming, as seen in some releases from publishers like Ubisoft. It offers a satisfying gaming experience that, while not overly difficult, presents a fair level of challenge. This game is definitely worth your time if you're looking for something engaging and different from the current norm.
No **** game with an open world that is both intrinsically and extrinsically rewarding to explore. Allows one to set their own difficulty thanks to the plethora of summons that the game encourages you to use. Extremely creative enemies.
Horrible user experience. Good games introduce you to gameplay and mechanics slowly and step-by-step in the first couple of hours. Take Zelda as an example: It never feels overwhelming, you always have the feeling that you understand how your current set of capabilites and tools work and where you have to go and what to do next, even though it's an open world and basically a sand box game. Elden Ring however: Basic introduction for 5 minutes, then you are thrown into the world, you have to run past or skip the first couple of bosses you encounter, you have to be at certain times of the day to trigger important events that unlock essential gameplay mechanics and character capabilities ... It's really a mess. Plus the way too poetic story telling that just leaves you with only a notion of what is going on. From my perspective (46 year old gaming veteran since Commodore 64 times), this is one of if not the worst onboarding in a game. To be honest, it's my first souls-like and without the open world approach it might have been working a bit better, but it's just not fun at all to watch hours and hours of YouTube videos to know what you have to do. It ****. Sound/music is good, but no controller rumble, clunky character movement, basically running/riding aroudn all day long, levelling up your character and weapons, trying encounters, failing, leveling up again, trying again ... What a waste of time.
Masterpiec, deserved goty best fromsoft game so far in my opnion would alwaysrecommend
Greatest game I've ever played.Visually striking, deep storyline (that you can skip through), challenging but fun gameplay, and most of all I love that it rewards curiosity. Does that tree or rock look weird? Go investigate and lose yourself on a. new mission for 10 hours.
a masterpiece. deserved a platinum, ma and had it. I played all souls game since demon soul/armored core. and this was his peak (before armored core 6 maybe) keep it up guys.
Elden Ring, a collaborative masterpiece by FromSoftware and Hidetaka Miyazaki, earns its perfect 10/10 rating as a groundbreaking action RPG. The game's vast and seamless open world, filled with diverse landscapes and secrets, sets a new standard for exploration and discovery. Its compelling lore and storytelling, supported by rich character backgrounds, add depth and intrigue to the narrative. Elden Ring introduces innovative gameplay and combat mechanics, including mounted combat and Spirit Summons, offering unparalleled freedom and strategic depth. The aesthetic brilliance of the game, characterized by hauntingly beautiful visuals and a captivating musical score, creates an immersive and unforgettable experience. With flawless technical performance, minimal load times, and stable frame rates, Elden Ring stands as a magnum opus, redefining the expectations for action RPGs and solidifying its place as a landmark achievement in gaming history.
While arguably the peak of the fromsoftware's soulslike genre, the game presents a few weak spots absent from its (spiritual) predecessors such as repetitively (in movesets, bossfight and regular enemy) and a few unfair game phases. Elden Ring obviously outweighs these cons with everything that has always been good in fromsoft's game while also cleaning up errors and improving on these strengths.
One Of The Best Games I've Ever played. Closest to the perfekt game I have experienced. Good world building,good dialogue,good quests,good exploration,good graphics and good bosses. What do you want more
Waiting for Shadow of the Eardtree; and thinking about the exploration and that feeling of accomplishment. I can't wait to beat it again.
Amazing souls game that combines everything Fromsoft learned from all their past games and put it in an open world. What keeps it from being a 10 for me is the sheer amount of mediocre/repeat bosses that pad out the runtime.
I just love this game. The soundtrack is wonderful, the graphics are gorgeous and the Gameplay is just marvelous. I love Dark Souls and this game takes is the best out of these games. Even after multiple play troughs I really enjoy just exploring the world running around fight enemies. You just have so many possible builds because there are so many weapons and so so many ways to change their effects and of they play. It's obvious that Elden Ring takes many features of previous Fromsoftware games but I thinks that's a good think.
This is the worst game made by From Software. It's a boring open world with no point other than trying to follow trends. It seems that due to the size of the game, the game designer ran out of adequate ideas for bosses. This imbalance makes the game frustrating rather than enjoyable.
Literally, the worst game I've ever played. The graphics are 10 years old, the gameplay is the same as dark soul 3, a huge empty world where the only thing you can do is ride a horse and dodge enemies (they don't even serve for leveling). The only thing different from dark soul is the jumping and it completely breaks the game, you can easily do all the bosses by spamming the weapon skill and with the jumping attack. Bosses and dungeons repeated 7-8 times. Narrative completely absent (the lore written on the stones is not narrative), there are few secondary quests and they are also buggy, not to mention the collisions of enemies that attack you through the walls. Honestly, I was expecting something on the level of Sekiro, but here we're not even close. I managed to play through all the endings, disappointing and all the same, all in 90 hours of gameplay but it felt like I was wasting at least 50 of them to understand where to go and looking at online guides to understand how to reach certain places. If it had been 1/6 of what they put in without repetition it wouldn't have lasted even 20 hours. This game won the GOTY only because there were no other good video games and God of War had stolen it from Red Dead Redemption 2 in 2018. In summary, they took dark soul 3 and put a big map on it, advertised it everywhere and used the figure of George R.R. Martin for the "story". My final rating is "MONOTONE", from start to finish.
Putting more emphasis on exploration unfortunately made the game a significantly worse experience than neccessary. Using external sources to find the way to the next boss shouldn't be a thing nowadays and given the stats of the videos there were a lot of people experiencing similar issues. The design of bosses has changed massively compared to the older souls games. The emphasis is on weapon skills (Ashes of War) and no longer attacking with normal weapon skills (R1 + R2). Bosses are much more aggressive with less secure windows forcing players to either use weapons with range abilities, spells or weapons that can dish out increadible damage during these tiny windows. This is reflected in pretty much all tier lists you will stumble on. A or S-Tier Weapons have either of these properties. Unfortunately those weapons are so much better than everything else, that the endgame build variety is very low. Still, if you're playing one of those builds, bosses become quite enjoyable even if you're playing a dodge + hit playstyle (except for Malenia but this is a whole different story). Since they do not give you a clear path and just let you explore you'll sometimes be significantly underleveled and at other times overleveled for the bosses you encounter. I do not particularly like this design as the former becomes frustrating and the latter extremely disappointing - I think it is just lazy and leaved me with very mixed feelings about the game. The delivery of the story is - similar to all souls games - pretty bad. Some parts of the story may be quite good when one is listening to some Youtuber who put the effort into reading every item description but a story being good and a story being delivered well are 2 different issues. I have not put much effort into the story but given that of the 6 endings, 4 just differ in the last 2 sentences and the colour of the tree i highly doubt that there is actually quality storytelling behind it. Seems like a George R.R. Marting style of ending. However, since the combat is pretty awesome and the weapon arts are really fun, the game still gets a 7/10 from me. It is just nowhere near the same quality as Bloodborne, Sekiro or Dark Souls 3 despite using all of their mechanics.
Best game ever made. Best songs best game mechanics best art design everything is perfect
This game is the best game ever made and it’s not even close. This game is so good it makes me sad because I know I will never be able to recapture the pure bliss that I felt on my first play through. This game is pretty damn close to perfect and no other game will ever be as good as it. If you’ve played the game a few times and are starting to get bored, I recommend downloading the convergence mod to switch it up a little. Spectacular game 10/10.
Best from soft game and best game I played so farvery deep and nice world building and cool story
I’m on my third playthrough at 300+ hours in and I can truly say that I’m only now starting to feel like I might need to take a break from the Lands Between. Nothing is quite like the first play through with all of its amazing surprises and sense of exploration, but with the build variety offered, there are still so many ways to play and each offer such a unique experience that the replay value is beyond what I initially expected. Despite its reputation, the game is not very difficult. There is a learning curve and that is most found in the navigation of the menu. Many game mechanics regarding damage scaling and item usefulness are extremely obtuse. Also I love the lack of overly cluttered quest logs, but having any option to jot down a note about an NPC would be nice. Otherwise, the game is actually quite forgiving with experimentation. The player just can’t expect to brute force their way through it. It rewards patience, paying attention, and enthusiasm in the journey, which I luckily had ample supply of. All things considered: it’s easily my favorite video game of all time. Period.
I seriously lost my soul to this game, it introduced me to Souls, and if I could travel back and play it again for the first time I would
Outstanding game. This was my second Fromsoftware game (after platinumed Bloodborne) that I have finished. And oh my god... It has some "issues and annoying things", eg. a lot of reskined enemies (including bosess), is a little bit too long (it took me around 130hours for first playthrough with exploration mostly everything), but overall it is great.
I've enjoyed the writing in Elden Ring, I like when I made my character blue and he sang the song
Beautiful, challenging to the perfect degree, story could be clearer but fromsoftware have always been gameplay driven. I wasn't expecting their open world entry to be as good as it was.
It's bigger and bolder than the souls-games. Tons of weapons, spells and enemies. Incredible presentation and world. However, too much filler content and much less tight design compared to dark souls. Boss design occassionally is tedious and frustrating. I would saya step down from ds3.
GOTY 2022 and one of the best games ever created. A unique game tha needs to be experienced by anyone who calls ****.
If you intend to play a game like Souls for the first time, this game is for you. Definitely buy it, especially for its excellent graphics and flawless physics. The game that most deserves the best award.
I never played a Souls game before this, like so many who first tried Elden Ring and was always afraid of the difficulty of Souls games, but this game is now one of my favorite games ever. It's very difficult but also completely fair and the amazing open world and many options the game provides gives you a totally rewarding experience that most games never get close to. If you're on the fence trying this because the difficulty is intimidating but everything else about the game appeals to you, you should dive in and try this. In a weird way, the challenge makes everything else in the game (Open world exploration, RPG mechanics etc.) feel more rewarding than if it had difficulty options.
Bro it's made by fromsoftware. Creators of the Dark souls trilogy, Bloodborne and Sekiro. Need i say more
3 Errors! 1) Zelda botw has led the way in what the structure of an open world should be. If they have to give up the levels and manage the RPG in another way, they can surely do it (that or autolevel). Since you are not free to go wherever you want and there are inaccessible or very difficult areas that you cannot enter from the beginning. 2) An open world has to be something more... The Witcher 3, forbidden west, red dead redemption 2... They are alive! There are minigames, games within the game itself such as went or mechanical assault, random events happen, the missions are varied... Elden ring is just a big battlefield. 3) The game is too big to retain its mission structure like in other souls... Without a GUIDE you will not complete even half of them, even though the story is wonderful, it is a shame that you miss so much if you do not go to the internet. Something is wrong. We like to discover for ourselves, the problem comes when you don't discover it... It seems to me that Zelda botw is almost perfect in that sense. With structured and compiled missions but they don't give you things done. Heroic trials are perfect too. - I would give it even less marks for all this, but it is so deep in terms of the combat system and the possibilities of the role that it gets what it wants. The open world is the step we needed for the franchise but for me, we still need to get rid of old mechanics that do not fit in a huge world. Bloodborne is still my favorite soulslike
An absolute masterpiece. An example of top combat mechanics, open world, narration and artistic direction. Loved every bit of it.
Elden Ring: A Majestic and Unforgettable Journey - ReviewIntroduction:Elden Ring, the highly anticipated collaboration between FromSoftware and George R.R. Martin, has finally arrived, and it does not disappoint. This open-world action role-playing game combines the best of both worlds, delivering a stunning and immersive experience that will leave players spellbound. Prepare to embark on a treacherous, yet captivating, journey through a world where fantasy and darkness intertwine.Gameplay:Elden Ring's gameplay is a testament to FromSoftware's expertise in creating challenging and rewarding experiences. The combat mechanics are finely tuned, striking the perfect balance between precision and strategy. Whether you prefer close-quarters combat or long-range attacks, the game offers a wide range of weapons and abilities to suit your playstyle. The vast open world is filled with secrets, hidden areas, and formidable enemies, making exploration a thrilling and unpredictable endeavor.Storyline:Crafted by the masterful mind of George R.R. Martin, Elden Ring's storyline is a rich tapestry of lore and mystery. As the Tarnished, a chosen hero, you are tasked with reclaiming the Elden Ring and restoring order to the **** world of Erdrea. The narrative is deep and complex, with intriguing characters and captivating backstories that will keep you engaged from start to finish. Every interaction, dialogue, and discovery adds layers to the immersive and deeply satisfying storytelling.Visuals and Sound:Visually, Elden Ring is a breathtaking masterpiece. From the sprawling landscapes to the intricate details of the enemies and architecture, the game's artistic vision is awe-inspiring. Each area is meticulously crafted, showcasing the beauty and horrors of this fantastical world. The atmospheric sound design further enhances the experience, with haunting melodies and ambient noises that immerse you in the game's dark and mysterious ambiance.Replay Value:Elden Ring offers a staggering amount of replay value. The choices you make throughout the game have a tangible impact on the world, leading to multiple branching paths and endings. The game's open-world nature encourages exploration, as there are countless hidden secrets and quests to discover. Additionally, the challenging difficulty level ensures that each playthrough presents new and unique challenges, making it a game that you can revisit time and time again.Conclusion:Elden Ring is an extraordinary masterpiece that pushes the boundaries of what can be achieved in the realm of action role-playing games. With its captivating gameplay, intricate storyline, breathtaking visuals, and immersive sound design, it is an experience that will resonate with players long after the credits roll. FromSoftware and George R.R. Martin have created a true work of art, destined to be remembered as a milestone in gaming history. Brace yourself for a journey that will test your skills, ignite your imagination, and leave you in awe of the world of Elden Ring.
Have 550+ hours on the game, easily the closest to perfect game i have ever played
this is the best game that i have played in my life. it's game play is awesome and the story is mad.
The difficulty level, a trademark of FromSoftware games, reaches new heights of frustration in Elden Ring. Instead of offering a challenging but fair experience, the game revels in its sadistic design, punishing players relentlessly at every turn. The joy of overcoming obstacles is overshadowed by the sheer grind required to progress, turning what should be a rewarding experience into a tiresome exercise in repetition.
This game is awesome! My favorite souls like games, I love them. Malenia was my nightmare, an enjoyable one.
Made an account just to rate this game. familiar with all the souls game but this is the first one that made me really appreciate the lore and world around me.
i am better at this game than Turt1e, I am actually able to beat bosses on my second time playing, unlike him I am able to beat malenia's ass with heavy weapons and a medium build
Fantastic HARD game. A real challenge! I love it, I love difficult games. It's not perfect but it's very addictive. Amazing atmosphere and fun for hundreds of hours!
This is the greatest game of all **** sense of discovery is unmatched. 500+ hours and I’m still amazed by it.
The world of Elden Ring may not be perfect for everyone. It may be too much for some. In many ways, that is the point. For you to ask yourself one simple question. Is this an adventure I'm willing to take? I've been playing games all my life. When a group of friends first introduced me to Bloodborne I had only played it for roughly a week before I quit, threw in the towel, and gave up. I came back to the game a year later. After my year-long break, I finished the game in only a couple of days. My friends were confused but the reason was simple, I needed to fail to learn success. I would then proceed to put 1600 hours into the game. Finishing the DLC so many times that I learned how to fight Orphan Of Kos with no healing items. Needless to say I "got good" at Bloodborne, later playing the other From Soft titles. When this game was released I didn't immediately fall into it. It took time. Almost a year actually, but once I was in, I fell hard. This game is the phrase "It's not the destination it's the journey". You may not know where the upgrade materials are, but there's a cave, so let's see what's in it. This is the de-ubi-fication of video games. I wouldn't have it any other way. Considering how much better this game feels.
I really liked this game. It takes all from the previous souls games, including Sekiro, and do it better. The openworld is very well implemented, the addition of the jump function is appreciated and also change a lot the gameplay and the exploration. Art style, enemies style, everything is stunning as never before. The best From Software game so far. I mean just a Bloodborne 2 could have a chance to beat it...right?
Very beautiful game and very fun gameplay. This game is very good for people who are willing to play their first souls game.
Elden Ring offers an exceptionally challenging gaming experience. While games typically benefit from a degree of difficulty, FromSoftware may have pushed the boundaries a bit too far, potentially detracting from the enjoyment. Navigating the game can be a struggle due to a lack of clear guidance, particularly for those new to RPGs. The narrative unfolds in a harsh setting where adversity seems omnipresent, leaving players feeling isolated and powerless. The storyline may come across as bleak and unenjoyable, lacking the support of friends, a nation, or allies. This can contribute to an overall sense of frustration and disconnection. In summary, Elden Ring may not be the most beginner-friendly option, featuring challenging gameplay and a narrative that might not resonate with everyone. It's essential to weigh your preferences for difficulty against the potential enjoyment of the storyline to determine if this game aligns with your gaming preferences.
Absolutely astonishing game Miyazaki really made the closest game to perfection
Elden Ring is a good game, but the open world came at the cost of rewarding, tight level design that the other Souls areas had. It says a lot that my favorite areas of this game are the "dungeon"-esque zones. The open world areas are pretty, but you'll spend most of your time in them sprinting past all the enemies and empty space. Weapon variety is disappointing, especially for the boss weapons. A majority of the bosses are reskins and forgettable, and all the ganks are poorly designed. There were a few bosses I enjoyed, but overall I think I would have enjoyed ER more if they focused less on the open world and more on tight level design and boss quality.
This Game definitely did something with me. I never played a Soulslike before, so i wasnt sure if i would like this game. And to be fair, it could be hard for some people to get into the game in the beginning. But i was instantly hooked and played this game all day and night. it was wonderful, im in new game+ 12 or so right now, and its still fun, i still love it, im just happy while playing
Masterpiece the best action rpg ever made. Amazing combat, bosses and weapons the level design is superb. 10/10
Can't delete my review for ps5, so I am editing it. WHY CAN'T I DELETE MY REVIEW
you dont know where to go in the whole game. Many npc storyline required specific steps to complete and you will never thought of how completed it is util you found out the solution in youtube. Bad experience of exploring the whole game..... this game is overwhelming and many so called good reviews are FAKE! Many youtubers are paid to gold plate this game. I bought this game because it has discount from ps5 in Oct 2023. Recommend to people DO NOT buy this game until they have discount.
The is an adventure itself. It's not for people who prefer easy games, but definetely the best game for the **** fans. I have 500 hours+ and can't wait for the DLC. The negative point is that some bosses been normal enemies after you beat them.
Yet another FromSoftware masterpiece.
This game is a masterpiece!
10/10 game on first play through would definitely recommend as long as you like a challenge or if you don’t mind searching up some boss tutorials.
I tried this game for 2 hours. I love RPGs, but sadly the difficulty of this game made me quit very fast. It's easy to kill the weaklings but the bosses just kill you pretty fast. Also, in this 2 hours I didn't even gain any level points. Graphics are ok, nothing special and the story so far is poor. Almost everyone wants to kill you. You can't even talk to them and when you kill them only a few drop something and that thing will most likely be unuseful. Overall, a very disappointing game. Just buy it if you like what some call "chalenging games".
Amazing game. missing cash grab item boxes and item store. Great graphics and combat. The story is kind of meh... which is why I gave it 10/10 not 11/10. Great job From!
i hate this game. maggot is too powerful and too hard for a first boss. would not recommand. at least im not maidenless
This game is way too fun
The best souls like ever created.
I don't know where to start. I was NOT a fan of From Software games before this. I spent 10 infuriating hours struggling to get to grips with what I was supposed to be doing - if that's you right now, push through. Use online guides and tips, but push through. I managed it and found my way into the game, and by god I'm glad I did. Obscenely layered gameplay, brutally difficult but (usually) pretty fair... you just need to make sure you're appropriately levelled and equipped. It made my jaw drop with astonishment at its creativity and style and humour at every turn.
Overly difficult just for the sake of being difficult Nonexistent story Slow sluggish combat. Look at how fast the characters move! A 10 year old moves faster than that.
i think you can make an onion but yes good games
Great game. Recommend to play. Difficult, but worth it.
A Masterpiece of Fantasy - Elden Ring Soars to a 9/10 Elden Ring has taken the gaming world by storm, and it's not hard to see why. FromSoftware and George R.R. Martin's collaboration has birthed a sprawling epic that seamlessly blends dark, intricate storytelling with challenging gameplay. It's an experience that demands your attention and rewards your dedication, securing its spot as a top-tier title. Here's why it deserves a solid 9 out of 10:Vast and Enthralling World: Elden Ring introduces us to the awe-inspiring world of the Lands Between, a meticulously crafted, interconnected realm filled with breathtaking landscapes and dangerous foes. It's a place that begs to be explored, and you'll lose countless hours doing just that.Rich Lore and Narrative: George R.R. Martin's influence on the story is evident in the game's deep lore and intricate world-building. The narrative is shrouded in mystery and lore, and it unravels slowly, encouraging players to piece together the story from fragments and lore scattered throughout the world.Intriguing Characters: The characters you meet along your journey are well-crafted and memorable, adding depth and emotional weight to the game's story. Their fates are often intertwined with the world's fate, making your choices matter.Challenging Gameplay: Elden Ring maintains the hallmark difficulty of FromSoftware titles. Combat is a visceral dance of attack and defense, demanding precise timing and strategy. Each victory is hard-earned, making success incredibly satisfying.Mounts and Open-World Exploration: The addition of mounts changes the game dynamic, allowing you to traverse the vast world more quickly. The open-world design encourages exploration and offers numerous secrets, dungeons, and hidden bosses to discover.Inventive Boss Battles: Elden Ring's boss battles are nothing short of spectacular. Each is a unique and unforgettable experience, featuring gigantic, awe-inspiring foes with complex patterns and weaknesses.Stunning Art and Sound: The game's visuals and sound design are nothing short of breathtaking. The hauntingly beautiful art direction is complemented by a captivating soundtrack that sets the mood perfectly.Online Multiplayer: The seamless integration of online features allows for a sense of camaraderie and competition among players. You can join others on their quests or engage in PvP combat for an extra layer of excitement.Freedom of Choice: Elden Ring offers a level of freedom and player agency that few other games can match. Whether it's your character's build, the order in which you tackle quests, or how you interact with the world's factions, your choices have a real impact on the unfolding story.Elden Ring is not without its flaws, with occasional performance issues and a high level of difficulty that might deter some players. However, for those who appreciate the challenge and a richly realized fantasy world, it's an absolute **** conclusion, Elden Ring stands as a testament to the power of collaboration and the potential for storytelling in the video game medium. It's a game that captivates, challenges, and transports you to a world unlike any other. While it may not be for everyone, those who embrace its dark, mysterious world will be rewarded with one of the most memorable gaming experiences of this generation. Elden Ring is a solid 9/10, deserving of every accolade it receives.
Dont know what all the fuss is about. I honestly couldnt get into it.
I think I'm a voice out of the chorus but I didn't like it. The reason is that it is incredibly and unnecessarily frustrating. I understand the pleasure of playing a hardcore title but constantly dying without being able to move forward is really frustrating.
Awesome Love it
I hate this game so much. And then I love it. But then I hate it again. On my road to the platinum trophy it really has been the source of my greatest frustrations and biggest joys. I haven't played it for more than a year now, but I think on it fondly at least once a week.
And... another masterpiece by Fromsoftware. One of the best open world games out there.
It's an impressive game, a barbarity in the artistic section, a gigantic open world, no matter how much you play there are constantly new things, and it doesn't get repetitive at all. As an RPG it is outstanding because you can level up your weapons without fearing that you will find a slightly better weapon after doing so, especially because it is an open world, but on top of that you have to choose from dozens of types of weapons. In short, everything in this game is impressive and outstanding, really, it is practically perfect in everything, I recommend it without any doubt. Well there is one thing, and that its optimization is not the best, but well, with a good computer you can play ;-)Translated with ****/Translator (free version)
This game can be a 11/10 if you release the DLC soon.
A alltimer video game that will be remembered forever
Lost my job but was worth it
Elden Ring is single-handedly the game fans of the souls-like genre have been waiting for and a true testament to open world video game design in general. There's nothing quite like it, not anywhere near the same scale at least. And it was one of the best journeys the team at FromSoftware have created in a long time!
Only bought it to play with the seamless coop mod on PC for full 2 player coop. The only bugs we had were the ones that came with the mod, and those weren't many, and all got patched in an update that came out while we were still playing. Got all achievements. Would be a 10 if the game had seamless coop built in. As in that is its biggest drawback, like I said I wouldn't have bought the game if it weren't for the mod (same goes for the person I cooped with).
I had a hard time trying to fully appreciate the universe of this game, but as of today and after more than 500h spent in it, I have to say it's a really incredible game and one of the bests soulsborne games. 8,5/10 but it's not possible here so I give it a 9.
B A N G E R. An awesome game. The game masters the combat. You get progressivelly better, and you can easily notice that. The feeling of beating that ONE boss is one of the best in gaming. I just wish dying was less punishing. I dont mind losing runes, but i hate having to go aaallll the way back to the boss. Just put some more closer lost graces god damn.
Will go down as a gamechanger in the RPG genre with its open world & unlimited customisation
I don't understand how people consider this as the best game of all time. Don't get me wrong this game is very good but it felt very weird. Some people we're saying that this game is very hard but it wasn't. It had it's moments when it was hard but i wouldn't say this is a hard game.
Elden Ring is Dark Souls with a Zelda twist while may sound awesome but it only goes skin deep. While i'm glad it bonked the overrated non game god of war cuckmarok from getting a game of the year , Elden ring as a game itself is pretty mid.
Alot of content and not just useless garbage. really good bosses. just overall just extremely close to perfect
Difficult but oh so hard to put down. Got completely lost in this world.
Elden Ring is nothing but a Masterpiece. Every fight, the soundtrack, the insanely big map, the boss and enemy design and art direction, everything is perfectly crafted. A truly breathtaking masterpiece with little to no flaws.
This game if my first official introduction to the soulslike genre and it doesn't disappoint in the slightest. First and foremost the gameplay is extremely fun and offers a real challenge and is always rewarding when you defeat pretty much everything. The world is beautiful and massive and there is always something of interest pretty much everywhere I go. The bosses are simply some of the best I've seen in a game period. And they offer a great challenge whenever you fight them. The music is great and often hypes you up when you meet a boss. There is so much moreI loved about this game and I could go on and on to praise it, but with that said there is a couple of minor issues and there is one element of the game that left more to be desired. With the minor issues is t How they integrated multiplayer, you see I was under the impression that you could play a full game of co-op with online players and you can but you have reinvite them everything you beat a boss and it got annoying after a while. And with every RPG there are bound to be glitches and bugs and they did appear and broke my immersion but it was nothing game breaking. Now my one major issue with the game is it's story/lore. With around 70hrs of gamplay I couldn't for the life of me tell you a characters name and there motivations. I held no emotional bond with anyone. After finishing the first playtrough all I can tell you about the narrative is that you are summed to be the king of this land and you go off and accomplish it. With that out of the way, the game is overall an amazing experience that everyone should try to play because it is deserving of it's title of Game of The Year(not my personal) and I think is my most played game of that year. 9.2/10.
Most boring game
Good bosses
The best
This became my favourite game ever. I had only really played Sekiro and Bloodborne before this from Fromsoft and wasn’t too interested in dark souls. But oh man did this hit everything I was craving. I felt the strong connection to the game somewhere after 15 hours. The first 15 were just trying to understand the game and mechanics and by the time you face the 4th main boss you start to crave more and more and after the 71 hours it took me to beat and platinum the game I just wanted more. Thank god for the dlc coming sooner or later.
Perferct, on every minus details, just perfect.
not my taste. very disappointing.
an 8 beacuse crafting materials are useless and they reuseennemies and put them as bosses
So much to do and explore
A f**king masterpiece. End of story!
Elden ring is probably the best game I have ever played and here is why. I will rate areas I think are important for a game and assign a value. Combat - 9.5 Atmosphere - 10 Game Mechanics - 9 Story - 9 (This is differently done than in most games) Level Design - 9.5 Progression & Levelling - 9 Build Types - 10 World Design - 9 Map - 10 Replayability - 9 PVP - 7 I love that the game lets you explore at your leisure, I have had great conversations with people and shared varied experiences of the first playthrough. On NG+ I found myself still learning about combat, lore, bosses and builds. Simply fantastic. Current progression Level 271 NG +4 Hours played 256
absolute best game ever created with the best open-world video gamers will ever see and well deserved of the 2022 GOTY
My experience with Elden Ring on the PS5 was a profound journey, marked by every death, each instance of despair, and every mistake encountered in the challenging boss battles. With each attempt, a rollercoaster of emotions unfolded, making me acutely aware of the game's gripping intensity. While Elden Ring may not attain the pinnacle of perfection, it unquestionably ranks among the elite when it comes to open-world gaming experiences. Its vast, meticulously crafted world and the intricate storytelling captivated me, cementing its status as one of the premier titles in this genre.
Very good game but like all the souls games overrated
Amazing game nothing really to say but definitely game of the year
Best game ever made I played it for 150 hours and still have a lot to find out I have beaten the game 3 times and looking forwardfor thedoc
One of the best games i ever played! Huge content (around 100 hours for my first run) so many gameplay possibilities, the universe, the music… Totally deservd GOTY!
Man this is a 100 hours Game full of entertaiment
This is the natural evolution of the previous games of From Software. The combat is awesome and, if a boss is too hard, now you're not forced to stay on a 'die-and-repeat' loop for days, you can go almost anywhere and try to get more experience in other places. The different areas in the world are very well represented, and the surprises are at every corner. You wil find a huge variety of weapons, spells and abilities, this allow you to customize your character a lot, Very recommended, and it's a mandatory if you like soulslike games. Probably a lot of people said it before, but Elden Ring is the Breath Of the Wild of the Souls Saga.
At first i didn't like the idea of an open world souls game but fromsoftware managed to completely blow my mind
A beautifull follow up to the souls serie for sure. With dope features allowing a larger audience to access the game and taking some space from the gatekeeping experience from the former games. Despite providing the original experience for experienced player or fans of the franchise, just dont use the bells or companions and you'll experience the toughest fight ever encountered in the fromsoft serie. Story has a bit too many similiraties with the souls story tbh but they're plenty new characters and aspect to forget about it. Nice weapon and spell arsenal, the journey is really enjoyable and challenging. The story options and ending are really a plus allowing you to pick really different paths towars your end. That being said the openworld novelty brings more downs than ups to me. Yeah it's fine, sometimes even great but it lost definitly the mastery it used to have with the souls and the narrow LD and scenes. The dongeons are a mess, truly boring after the first 10 ones. And the ennemies being used all overs the place, sometimes even as boss is really something that took me off. Still a fantastic game tho
Excellent game, however you need to play the ps4 version of the game on PS5 to get a smooth 60 fps.
After waiting for years for its release and getting all trophies of the game i can easily say that its one of the best open world games out there but definitely not the best FROMSOFTWARE project in my opinion. To me and possibly any other fan of the studio - it was basically Dark Souls 4. It was not as unique as Sekiro or Bloodborne but is a lot better than Dark Souls 2 and 3. Regardless - Elden Ring will forever remain as one of my favorites
A top 3 Soulsborne, barely beaten out by Sekiro : Shadows Die Twice and Dark Souls 1. Incredibly vast open world with degenerately hard bosses and combat so good you'll wish every RPG had it. There is poor balancing on certain weapons which trivializes large parts of the game, and some bosses/areas are more frustrating than they are challenging.
A very complete, very open game giving a lot of pleasure to play.Undeniably the best game 2023
I like difficult bosses, but the game keeps punishing you even when you you’re not in combat. You want story or lore? Too bad, gotta work for it. I feel like I can’t take a literal step forward in that world without needing to avoid something or fight it. I like the dark fantasy setting, I just don’t like being alone in it. you’re white-knuckling it from campfire to campfire. The game doesn’t actually encourage exploration imo. Yes, it’s a massive world and you can go anywhere.. but what’s the point if the landmarks have no narrative significance and you can’t do anything when you get there? Are you just supposed to window-shop all the bosses and enemies you can’t encounter yet? the setting is relentlessly brutal. That’s the biggest turn-off for me. The only joy that’s allowed is the EXACT moment after you defeat a boss. As soon as that animation is over you’re thinking about the nearest bonfire location to save. If the enemies didn’t reset every time you rested I think I could handle it. Then I could feel safe in certain areas and get to explore / appreciate the setting. the gameplay loop is pain and I’m not competitive enough to feel satisfaction after I using 3 hours of my life on a single encounter. I know there’s the git gud argument and maybe these games just aren’t for me.. but I’m not convinced. I love Respawn’s Jedi games and I’m a huge Berserk fan. I love to watch gameplay of Elden Ring and I 100% support any title that releases fully-functioning and with not MTX’s - that’s part of the reason I bought it. I just thought I had a somewhat nuanced view **** that seems devoid of criticism.
Once in a generation kind of an experience
one of the best open world and souls experience there is, a lot of content, a lot of freedom, the songs, the setting, the combat, the game feels infinite for the fisrst 23 or 4 dy of playng non stop, sadly the balancing of weapons, magig and some broken enemys with weird mechanics and copy pasted stuff altough is minimal, this sits along side Fallout nv and The witcher 3 as one of my favorite of the genre
One of the most beautiful and best Souls games, characterized by its wonderful world with multiple bosses and fighting them is something incredible. The Elden ring game is one of the greatest games of all time.
Fromsoftware saving gaming once again. F*cking legends.
Sorry its so hard
best souls like i ever played, and that was the first one also witha great story
One of the best games ever made. I never played a Souls game before this and now I am hooked. Literally not one thing wrong with this game. If you enjoy video games, you must own this title.
The best Arpg game ever made. Nothing but love. Only wish it was a way to set it back to how it was at launch. Was so much harder.
a fantastic game that can still deliver the unmatched thrill of defeating a tough boss after an hours-long battle.
Elden Ring is a triumph of gaming artistry. It seamlessly combines the best elements of FromSoftware's challenging gameplay with George R.R. Martin's storytelling prowess. The result is a game that not only lives up to the immense hype but exceeds it in every way. Elden Ring is a majestic masterpiece that will be remembered as a defining moment in the world of gaming. It sets a new standard for what an action RPG can achieve, and it deserves universal acclaim for its sheer brilliance.
The sheer amount of player expression that is possible is just insane. I've never once seen the same setup in PVP, every person has a different playstyle. That alone is special Apparently that wasn't enough for From Soft, so they decided to also add in one of the most innovative open worlds to date, a total revise to their difficulty with Spirit Ash's, enough content to fill 3 games over, and so so many secrets! But even with everything this game gets so so right, I'll always hold a place in my heart for the world and boss design of the souls series, which I just don't think Elden Ring can quite match
Gameplay: 10/10 Story: 10/10 Graphics: 10/10 World: 10/10 Sound: 10/10 Overall 10/10
boring
I enjoyed this game so much. I have put around 300 hours on it now on PC PS4 and **** game is so open and you can try so many different weapons and magic combinations. It is really fun to just play different playthroughs with different weapons and because the bosses are so well designed you can play all kinds of different ways with them.This is my favorite soul game with the Boss design because you can stance break them and make that them fun to fight against.I just love using this spiked fist weapon , so I can use bleed and Frost at the same time on the ****'s also because it is both strong and **** the game's biggest problem is that it's a open world where if you are going for a certain build then most of the content is useless it just kind of sad to look at all There is and just saying to yourself. I don't need any of it.This game could very easy be at 10 out of ten if the DLC gets out and become good. Just like the original Dark Soul dlcMessage Frederiks forsikring bureau
Elden Ring is a great game, I love wandering aimlessly until I find something to do, It’s easy to get lost in this game forever. I would have rated it higher but there needs to be something to compare it to. Compared to other games such as the Legend of Zelda Breath of the Wild it gets an 8/10. If it were compared to games such as RDR2 it would get a 10/10. But in general, compared to one of the best games of all time, it gets a strong 8/10
It was perfect!
Better than sex
Elden Ring is basically Dark Souls 4. With a few more mechanics, the game is everything fans expected and maybe a little more. The game is beautiful, immersive and extensive maps, the soundtrack is great, the diversity of weapons, spells and enemies is incredible. A LOT of bosses, a lot of them! In short, for those who like soulslikes, Elden Ring proves to be the best yet. The only criticism I will make is that, using summons/summons, the game becomes easy, it's just not easier than the Demon Souls remake. I wish it was more difficult or didn't have the option of summons, but that's just my opinion.
this game is still my favourite game of all time (Arandomcrow is spewing ****)
Bland open world with added copy paste cave systems, over, unique level dungeon designs we've seen in past titles. The first boss introduced a new entrance scene, which was then taken away for the rest of the game. The game felt like it was made for Co op, yet, fog walls that block progression only to summon a second later after the wall, and lack of horses make Co op a slog. Repeated night time bosses and major story bosses repeated in small dungeons. Graces everywhere. We ended up with a game that wants to strike a balance with many different audiences and ends up dissapointing the people that have been there since demon/dark souls imo. Its a shame these nothing open worlds will continue as proven by the popularity of this game. But I would prefer to see some innovation to the series and bring it back to its roots.
This game blends all the good elements of the various souls games into a masterpiece and also add some new mechanics, such as a jump button, a counter attack after blocking and more. The game is an open-world, wich means if you're having a hard time you can go somewhere else and return later (sometimes can make some areas very easy because of over-level; doesn't apply to the late game). The world is extremely huge, and has a lot of caves and cathacombs to explore, but a lot of bossess are reused in these places so It can feel a bit repetetive. The variaty of weapons and builds possibile is huge, you can make every weapon good with the right build. The game is very challenging as in every other soulsborne game, but the ashes system (wich are basically summons) can really help in lots of fights. The game is poorly optimized on PC and can also have some troubles on PS4 but not too overwhelming. The game defenitly deserved the game of the year.
i only reviewed this after my 7th playthrough. with or without mods this is a giant jump in design, world developement and graphic requirements.
Great :)
How to sum up this sprawling, open-world (Elden Beast) from the minds behind some of my favourite games of all time? 70 hours of smashing Shardbearers, riding on Torrent(!) and dishing out bloody beatings with the Rivers of Blood, this was one of the most exhilarating games and experiences of my life. The best graphics in the franchise, the most impressive areas, insane enemy designs and brilliant questlines had this game stuck in my head long after I powered down my Playstation5 - what a game! Docking points because the end of the game felt like a glorified boss run and there were a LOT of reused bosses (including that one bs double boss fight...) and so many meaningless catacombs.
This game changed my life. Need I say more?
Cant believe a company made 3 good games in a row this game is even harder then dark souls 3 with its great world and new spell, weapons and animations theres also a weapon art system and you can thank ss for the jump and sneak button, if you like souls game this is the perfect game to buy
This was my first FromSoft game and it turned out to be my favorite game of all time. The exploration, characters and lore completely drew me in and took over my life while playing this game. The game is challenging at times but not overbearing. There is no better feeling than finally defeating that boss that you have been working so hard on. Excited for what comes next from FromSoft!
This game was intimidating because I had read how this was a tough game. I had never played any of the prior games before. I found this easier to figure out than Sky Rim but I did spend more time on this game. It was tough to get the character upgraded. There were a lot of deaths but it was rewarding when you got to the point of fearlessly jumping into battle and looking for trouble. The ability to explore and do side quests was cool. I appreciated the co-op support when you got in a jam at a particular stage. It was nice to have someone watch your 6 and help you defeat a boss. I am not sure if I would put this much time in another game like this anytime soon. Aside from the grind, I felt the options to customize the physical appearance of your character were somewhat limited.
A different open world adventure, more focused on combat and obtuse storytelling, much like all Fromsoftware games, and one that works wonderfully. It’s a rich and dangerous world, one of the few that is perhaps a little too long.
I am a Fromsoft fan, Always loved the care the mood and how they make incredible games and universe, what do you have still to say to Elden Ring, open world genre si mainstream, most of time boring. They set a new peak in gaming industry, this and Tears of the kingdom are the best open world ever made in history. Larian with BG£ , Fromsoft and Nintendo raised the bar high 10/10 for the game 9/10 on ps5 for the poor aptic feedback on the dualsense, could have been even better
My background: Huge fan of Miyazaki, got platinum in Demons souls, dark souls 3, sekiro, bloodborne (favorite) and Elden ring. The game is all I ever wished: a Miyazaki’s soul game with an open world, countless bosses and enemies. The game is beautiful in every aspect! The fighting is perfect! I enjoyed every second!
This game is nothing short of pure brilliance. Everything about it is excellent. It's challenging, the combat is rewarding and the boss fights are difficult but also epic at the same time. Sounds design and graphics are nice and there's plenty of replayability.
Elden Ring is a Masterpiece. Plain and simple. It’s everything FromSoft has learn from past games like Dark Souls, Bloodborne, and Sekiro. All poured into their magnum opus with an intriguing and imaginative world.
Best Story Game I have ever played
Best game I have ever played.
I tried to like the game, but it's very boring. There's no story in the game, no meaningful progress, just senseless enemies.
Not my favourite Fromsoft game. But it's still pretty good.
Combat and is lacking compared with sekrio or bloodbourne but is still decent. Open World feels lifeless and static. Exploration is good at times. Story is lacking. Graphics and physics need work above adverage for sure.
Do I even have to say anything?
MAY CHAOS TAKE THE WORLD
I loved the Dark souls Series and also Bloodborne and Sekiro but Elden Ring sadly can't compete with them. The Main Path (all shardbearers + rannis quest included) is great , but the Open World is empty and the dungeons (mines, crypts, caves) become dull very fast. The magic of overcoming new challenges is broken there because the reuse of bosses. In an open world you need to reuse assets,that's normal of course, but itdoesn't fit the genre. Even if you say it's not a soulslike but an open world with soulslike gameplaythe open world doesn't have anything else to offer except the combat (which is still top notch, becauseit's the same as in dark souls 3). Especially the quest design doesn't work very well, because you can call yourself lucky if you find the next quest stage by accident. I really enjoyed the main Path though and got all achievements, but after entering ng+ never had the urch to do something in the open world.
my only complaint for the game is its bosses and how some of them act with so many over tuned attack patterns i honesty don't get how people complain about reused bosses or dungeons do they think they can do magic or something? most open world games need to reuse assets to fill the world be thankful that with those reused bosses you get talismans and weapons that are unique in there own way its not like there is a small verity of the reused bosses either there are over 100
You might aswell say From Software made THE RPG of all time.
The epitome of soul games, an epic adventure
very good i finished it 3 times and keeps goooood
Elden Ring will give you countless hours of enjoyment if you’re willing to overcome its difficulty and horrendous UI. The game really is so addicting thanks to the careful dance that is combat, and also thanks to the visuals which really makes you want to explore every new area of the map. The amount of content in this game is truly impressive and the ability of this content to keep itself engaging and interesting is what sets it apart from so many other open world games we’ve seen these past few years.
"Elden Ring stands as an exemplary testament to the art of gaming. It masterfully encapsulates the transformative journey from humble beginnings as a lowly commoner, emerging from the mire in tattered garb to the gradual acquisition of skills and abilities that eventually culminate in the ascension to dominion over 'The Land Between.' The game achieves unparalleled immersion, facilitated by its superlative graphics and voice acting. Its expansive world exudes an eerie and haunting ambiance, creating a sense of seemingly boundless exploration. With an abundance of side quests, farming opportunities, rich lore, multifaceted characters, and intense combat, players can easily invest over a hundred hours before reaching the culmination of the main storyline. The gameplay experience is exceptional, offering a diverse array of melee combat styles that evolve in tandem with one's proficiency, resulting in sheer enjoyment.FromSoftware's ability to seamlessly fuse gratifying combat mechanics with theatrical musical scores and striking visuals is nothing short of astounding. Elden Ring is highly recommended for those yearning to be enveloped in a vast and foreboding realm ripe for salvation."
Some reused bosses and enemies and empty areas, especially on the endgame, weren't enough to overshadow the masterfully constructed world, lore and gameplay. It's 2022's GOTY for me.
Elden Ring is an excellent game (GOTY 2022) and possibly the best soulslike ever created. What i really liked after 150 hours of playing and the platinum trophy is that this game wants and succeds on treating you like a clever person and not a dumb braindead gamer who only needs 2 buttons to play a game or watch 30 hours of cinematics or depend on QTEs in combat all the time. The game demands intelligence and imagination from you, from exploration to customization and from skill and technique to fast reflexes. I mean, Dark Souls 3 and Bloodborne already had these things but now they are even better. The ONLY 2 reasons that hold it back from true greatness imo (9/10 and not 10/10) are, first, the story is almost non-existent and second, the technical side in general, both in terms of graphics and music/sounds/ost, could be better. I mean, i played Hogwarts Legacy and then came back immediately to play again Elden Ring and it seemed to me like a game from 2015 or something. Nevertheless, a true must-buy for every soulslike lover or action rpg gamer in general.
you must to play it RIGHT NOW RUN RUN RUN RUN The 2nd best game that I’ve played in my entire life (The first is silent hill 2)
Alright, folks, let me tell you about my mind-blowing adventure with Elden Ring. This game is off-the-charts awesome, I'm giving it a solid 10/10! Seriously, it's a masterpiece that left me speechless. The world design is insane, and the combat mechanics? Oh boy, they're on a whole other level! First off, this open world is mind-blowing. It's like stepping into a fantasy dreamland. Every nook and cranny is bursting with jaw-dropping details and hidden goodies. I couldn't get enough of exploring this place. It's like a magnet, pulling you in and refusing to let **** combat is tough as nails, no doubt about it. But man, when you finally take down those enemies and bosses, the rush is unreal! You gotta be strategic, think on your feet, and time your attacks just right. But when you emerge victorious, you feel like a total **** enemy and boss designs are straight-up mind-blowing. I mean, who comes up with this stuff? FromSoftware, that's who! Each encounter is like stepping into a twisted nightmare. These baddies are creative, terrifying, and push you to the edge. But when you conquer them, oh man, it's the sweetest feeling in the world.I poured a whopping 100+ hours into this game, and guess what? Not once did I get bored. It's addicting as hell! Even after **** that platinum trophy, I dived straight into NG+3 without hesitation. I just couldn't get enough. Bottom line, if you're a fan of challenging games, Elden Ring is an absolute must-play. It's a rollercoaster ride of emotions, and the satisfaction it delivers is unmatched. The world, the combat, the boss fights — it's all next-level stuff. Elden Ring has rightfully earned its place among the all-time greats.
Masterpiece ****. This is the first game with a massive scope that I feel the depth actually matched it. Choices have consequences, there is endless build variety, the story is deep yet cryptic. I could go on, but I'll stop and just say masterpiece.
I recovered my desire to explore in a game like I did when I was a child.
-1 for graphics
This game is a masterpiece.
Literally the best most amazing game I have ever been blessed to experience. Everything about this game is absolutely incredible and awesome in every sense of the word.
Some build are broken, and if you're lazy like me, you'll be tempted to acquire stuff that is broken. In that case, game is "playing" by itself. I'm weak i know. Otherwise it's a masterpiece
Elden Ring is the greatest game I've ever played. It has beautiful areas, interesting lore, challenging and fun bosses, great side quests and the gameplay has everything I want from a game. Elden ring is the only game I've ever 100% and I would happily do it again.
This game is a brilliant example of how to create an original open-world experience without resorting to the usual formula of cluttering it with markers and endless tasks. The combat is a testament to From Software's excellence and can suit various playstyles. It's perhaps one of the more accessible Souls games they've made, but there are still occasional difficulty spikes that are hard to justify. Sometimes, the chaotic scenes and issues with the lock-on mechanism can lead to frustrating, avoidable deaths. While the technical aspects might not meet modern standards (a common occurrence for From Software), the extraordinary art design and world-building more than compensate for it. In fact, the world-building is among the best I've ever seen.
mmersive, enormous, wonderful. it's the whole world of Souls in a single product. exceptional.
A brillant game and an example that is possible to do an original open world game without using the boring formula of stuffing it of markers and things to do. Combat is a fine example of the best From Software has to give and can be adapted to any style of players. Probably one of the easiest soul game that From Software ever made, but still some difficulty spike are hard to justify and sometime the scene is chaotic, hard to read and the lock mechanism **** up ending in an avoidable death. The tech side is not really up to date with modern standard (and that's unfortunately a standard for From Software), but this is absolutely compensated by the incredible art design and by the world building which is one of the best ever seen.
Overrated mess. Difficulty is the only reason it has any acclaim.
New formula, not mastered yet. The base is strong like usual with fromsoft, the gameplay feeling is good but that all. The rest is too long, too big, therefore too much crypte lookalike and boss, so, boring exploration. But above all... we lost the amazing level desing of souls-games because of the open world. Elden ring 2 gonna be masterpiece
Good game. Poor balancing -1
Although a exceptional game, the repeating mini bosses for small dungeons and the move away from the dark souls style of invasion's really doesn't work for myself. I feel like they should of just committed to having co-op fully instead of what we got.
This game is absolutely amazing I have never played a game with such a detailed and lore filled world such cool bosses and the open world is just perfect
Perfect
It is a good game like all other souls games I played On the ps5 and it runs great definitely Recommend playing
Finally, a game lives up to the hype! The world is so gorgeous with beautiful art style and doesn't feel repetitive like most other open-world games rather addictive gameplay with so much variety in playstyle; There's so much content to enjoy with some of gaming's one of best boss fights. (and also has so many repeating bosses that I didn't like). The gameplay was refined from all previous games from the studio. Finally, the hype was well delivered. Can't wait to play DLC expansion! Surely it is one of my top played games. Personal rating: 10/10! A MUST PLAY GAME
As a huge FromSoftware fan it was difficult for me to keep my expectations down. Luckily Elden Ring is possibly the best game they have released yet. Borrowing mechanics from the Souls series, Bloodborne and Sekiro while introducing new ones that allow for a more accessible experience (summons for example) means that it is the perfect entry point for newcomers. The open world was my biggest worry as I feared that FromSoft would lose some of their signature detail and world building, again I was proven wrong as the world of Elden Ring is not just vast but also deep, literally and figuratively. Yes it is difficult but that comes with the territory. I eagerly await the likely dlc.
I played this game in early 2023, and it was my first FromSoftware game. I really enjoyed the main story, although I had to watch a lot of videos to fully grasp it. Nevertheless, I appreciated the storytelling approach. The main bosses were all enjoyable to fight and had unique characteristics. The combat, while involving a lot of dodging and waiting for ripostes, still managed to maintain a distinct feel, although it could become somewhat repetitive at **** game's world is visually stunning, and despite the graphics not being top-notch, I found the art style to be quite appealing. My primary criticism pertains to the repeated use of bosses in the dungeons. I understand the need to populate the world, preventing it from feeling empty, and I'm pretty sure no one has discovered all the dungeons on their first playthrough. However, I encountered a significant number of identical bosses, even within the main campaign.Overall, it's a good game, especially if you're a fan of FromSoftware's previous works, and it also serves as a solid introduction if you're new to their games, as was the case in my experience.
One of the best FromSoft games. Funnest exploration I've seen in a game for a long time. Some annoying bosses, but that's why we play hard games, right? Can't wait for the expansion.
GOTY 2022. One of the best game ever.
Introduction: I adored demon's souls, therefore I decided that I had to give this game a try. There is a lot of hype surrounding this game, and people often like to compare it to its predecessors too, which makes reviewing the Elden ring harder. Nevertheless, after having played this game for 152 hours and finished it, here are my thoughts: What I liked: the sheer amount of things is insane. I don't know how miyazaki directed/planned all the story and content there is in this game. The map, the weapons, items, spells/incantations, ashes of war, and spirits for example. The map is beautiful and practical thanks to the icons you can place. One may be unhappy at the fact that areas aren't marked as cleared, but this makes Elden Ring's map more unique and less like a shopping list. Additionally, it was nice to interact with the map and mark areas unexplored. I have never used a map so much. This may sound bad but it adds more flavour to the gameplay, adds realism, and allows for a less monotonous experience. It goes without saying that the combat, levelling up system, and music are great, as usual with Fromsoftware's games. What could have been improved: A lot. While the quantity is certainly there, the quality dipped in some areas it seems. The graphics and music were slightly worse than demon's souls'. I noticed the recycling of assets (which is understandable due to the logistics of the game), and while it did not majorly bother me or hinder the gameplay, if I am to be honest with myself, its clear a lot of pasting/duplicating was done during the development process. Continually Seeing the exact same shacks, caravans, and ruins in different places was a little bit awkward. I have two more remarks. Due to the nature of the game (being open world) I went into some areas under-levelled, and into some areas/boss-fights over-levelled, which I have mixed feelings about. On one hand, nothing is ever truly easy in this game. On the other, defeating a boss in 2-3 hits can feel a little bit underwhelming. Finally, some areas (ailing village for example, or, arguably, the whole of southern limgrave) and catacombs felt pretty empty and underwhelmingly easy/short. What I didn't like: I only have one, true single issue with Elden ring. It concerns the story. There is a short cutscene at the start, then the lore and story is told through weapon descriptions and npcs. I like that i couldn't really tell what was main story and side content missions and fights and interactions. I also must be honest that there is joy to be found in digging deep online about the lore and story ****, but when it is this time-consuming, i almost feel like the game obligated to be clearer... I completed Ranni's quest and while it was a rewarding process in terms of concrete rewards, I understood nothing. It was a long side story/mission about a 4-armed, blue witch who hired 3 people to free her from... something? You put a ring on her and a sword and doll are left behind? what?? I can tell that the main objective of Elden ring was to make this game as accessible as possible, and they did so in most areas, but perplexedly, the story did not get the same treatment. I would have liked more frank and less fragmented pieces of lore, and a clearer picture about what my objective is and what it is i'm really doing in this world. After putting in 150 hours+ into the game, I can personally say that the story was largely uninteresting/unrewarding (I appreciated it much more later, on Youtube, after a few more hours of lore videos). What I'm unsure about: the story, and the spirit ashes. it depends on perspective. In conclusion: how has a relatively small (compared to the likes of ubisoft, EA, CD project red, rockstar, and so forth) video game development team such as fromsoftware been able to accomplish such a feat? It's quite incredible, and it's one of those "i wish i could forget about this game and play it anew" games. Miyazaki and his team doesn't miss. Another addictive classic. A tiny bit more of consistency, clarity, and quality would have put this game into the 90s. 89/100.
It's good, but lacking in replayability compared to previous solus games. Part of that is because of the switch to open world or "open field". Going open world meant sacrificing something special about the formula, the core experience of traversing those tight linear, labyrinthian corridors that defined demon souls, dark souls 1 and dark souls 3. That tight, expertly paced gameplay and sense of progression is just completely missing from this game. Instead of this the meat of the game is the huge but empty feeling open field areas. The sheer spectacle and novelty of horseback exploration of these gorgeous landscapes is enough to get you through it the first time, but this portion of the game really drags on repeat playthroughs. When the game does give you a taste of the old school souls level design like in Volcano Manor it just doesn't feel significant enough. Don't get me wrong, the amount of content is well worth the money, and you will enjoy your first time running through, but the experience just doesn't live up to the heights of the genre. My hope is that they change things up for the dlc and focus more on fleshing out the "legacy dungeons" rather than pushing for more time spent in huge open areas. Also a patch to change the multiplayer system would be nice, they really botched it this time around
Pros: - Good Atmosphere, the world is quite well built and has some nice visuals. It's really cool to walk around Liurna, and cross with some random caves around. Also, congratulations to whoever came with the idea of Farum Azulla, that whole place is really awesome. - No markers, making the discovery experience challenging and rewarding. The map thing is also cool. - Well designed enemies - for instance, It's very cool to fight a dragon, and every dragon has it's own power. Just to give an example of how well designed the enemies are, in Skyrim, after you fight a dragon for the second or third time, it just gets repetitive, while in Elden Ring it always feels like a completely new and unpredictable foe. - Good combat system. From souls like games - and maybe from all the games I ever played - I still prefer Bloodborne combat system, but Elden Ring fights, for me, are still much more exciting than the combat from most open world RPG's. Cons: - Repetitive Bosses. The same bosses are showed over and over again, just changing the name and increasing some of their stats, to make them feel more difficult. - Almost no soundtrack on the entire game. One of the main reasons why Skyrim was such a hit in my opinion: It had a great soundtrack, which made It's atmosphere much more immersive than most of It's genre. - Unconvincing Lore - why call George R R Martin and ask him to write the whole lore if none of this is even accesible to the public? For me It feels like NPC's are just a detail, with shallow dialogues, and honestly, the tarnished trajectory doesn't convince me at all - maybe if we were presented to whatever was written by George R R Martin, maybe it would convince us, I don't know. After you beat Malenia and the Elden Beast, It simply doesn't make much sense to keep playing this game. In Skyrim you could join the stormcloaks or the imperials, you could also do the dark brotherhood questline, or thieves guild, or even become a vampire - or maybe fight the vampires and join the dawnguard - you could also become a werewolf and join the companions if you wished, or maybe fight miraak.. I mean, the point is, the main quest was just a detail in face of all the other choices and possibilities you could take as a player - And that's why people still play Skyrim to this day. In Elden Ring, after you finish the main quest and kill the main bosses, everything just gets dull and repetitive. I get it, it's a soulslike, but in the end, It simply fails to be a compelling open world game. I liked the game, but would I play it again? Nope, because there's nothing new to see, and the whole story is not even there.
This game is amazing
One of the best open world games on the market. Its story, characters, mythology, and difficulty create a unique atmosphere that I have not seen in any other game. Don't let the difficulty scare you, in the end repeating the battles until you master them and overcoming them becomes part of the experience. Essential purchase if you have a next-generation console.
This game has been for me one of the best gaming experiences I have ever had. The world is huge and full of content and secrets. The main levels are excellently designed and the boss fights are spectacular and epic. There are literally secondary areas that are amazing and even better than some of the main ones. There is a huge variety of weapons, armour and spells, talismans and skills, which leads to a fantastic build system. The normal enemies are also great but the further you progress through the game the more they repeat themselves (also some bosses). The side quests of the npcs are very interesting and the lore of the game in general is great. If you start investigating you realise how complex it can be and how well thought out is the story that surrounds the world. It's a world that feels alive and not at all empty. One of the aspects I liked the most about Elden Ring is the artwork. It may not have the best graphics but, artistically, it's a beauty. Probably the most beautiful videogame I've ever played in my life. I'm fascinated by the amount of detail in any wall, column or structure. Also, I think it's great that the scenery itself gives you clues about the history of the place where you are. Finally, I wanted to highlight the game's amazing ability to surprise you with each new area you reach, through its fascinating art design. It's been over a year since the game's release but if you're playing it for the first time, I highly recommend you not to spoil yourself. The experience will be 100 times better
An outstanding soulslike game; the open world format makes it much more forgiving and less prone to roadblocks (e.g. spending countless hours on a single boss).
This Game is HUGE!! There is SO much to do. So many weapons, a lot of upgrading and smithing, amazing dialogue, the bosses in this game are phenomenal, fighting is satisfying, awesome story, and overall, it being my first souls like game I have ever played, is a groundbreaking one.
This game is phenomenal. One of my personal favorite games of all time. I love challenging games personally and Elden Ring was a thrill from start to finish. There's a lot to love about this game, the world is beautiful, the the boss fights are uniquely designed, the wide array or weapons and sorceries to use are extremely fun, it's extremely challenging if you like challenging games like I do. Elden Ring overall has very few low points to it. The main low points can be how the input reading in a lot of bosses is EXTREMELY prominent, some late game bosses are so heavy on the input-reading to where they will literally walk in circles with you waiting for you to move in order to counter-attack you. I've had boss fights where I've literally walked around in a circle for a few minutes without the boss even moving. The other downside is how huge of a difficulty spike the game has in the mid point, early game feels like a breeze if you've been optimizing character stats, but at mid point the enemies and bosses get so powerful they can almost one shot you all the time, to the point where it makes it seem like leveling health isn't even helpful, it's just insurance to not get one shot by some bosses. Even then, some bosses can bring you to near one shot with their combos making vigor leveling seem kind of pointless. That aside, the game has a lot of strengths in every aspect of it.
Cannot upgrade all weapons to +25 in NG0. Bad attributes scaling means no scaling after mid-game.
The Best game I have ever played after final fantasy VII. Worth your money & time, thousand hours play time won't make you bored. Nicely done from software.
walk in the desert,fall into quicksand,that would be more fun than this game
Everyone that rates this game bad are haters or just bad at souls games and can’t handle the difficulty. The world is full of enemies and very alive and the bosses are phenomenal. This is my favourite fromsoftware game and deserved the game of the year.
Wow, what a journey, been playing this for 9 months and it's more rewarding than my pregnancy! Truly a masterpiece. Could never imagine playing some isometric garbage after this lollapalooza :D
The Best game ever, perfect gameplay, perfect story, perfect characters, perfect bosses
One of the best and most challenging games I've ever played, The lore is its weak point as it could be worked on more, but the game play and open world immersion make up for it.
Perfect game ever graphics story lore everything My first experience is elden ring on ps5
The combat in this game is phenomenal, it's a well designed open-world and there is a lot of customisation in how you build your character. It also has good replay value and a multiplayer mode which is well incorporated in places but still quite flawed. This game leaves a lot to be desired for people who want more than "explore area, fight tough enemy, repeat". The story fails to give you something meaningful to latch onto and the quest direction is a little too standoffish for it's own good. Regardless, if you're into this kind of game this is an incredible experience that you won't forget.
Probably one of the best video games i have ever played, did not care about the story doe, everything else 10/10
The only good from soft game I have no clue what the hell goes on in the story The gameplay is fun Good graphics Frame rate is unstable at times A big open world to explore and not having to go down a linear path with possibly difficult enemies Fun bosses Being able to summon cool spirits as well as enemies The weapons are fun to use Really enjoyable on co-op, although at times gets really annoying having to resummon the other person
Masterpiece ****. Pretty hard for a first timer. A must play game that never ceases to amaze me.
The zenith (so far) of fantasy adventure in games. No other game has come closer to achieving that raw sense of exploration and adventure in a fantasy setting. Incredible world to discover. New wonders around every corner. An amazing achievement in terms of open world game design. Great build variety. Finely tuned combat from Fromsoft's previous games. Great art direction and music. Great boss fights. Interesting narrative and lore. This is Fromsoft's ultimate culmination of their past 10 years. This is a special generational game.
Exploration in the nation. It was so much fun to just roam around the Lands Between encountering various enemies and the bosses were of course exceptional as by Fromsoftware's standard.
Exploration feels great. Played on easy mode, and need to say this time Fromsoftware made it a no brainer mode :) If you are starting your souls like journey this is the game for you!
Myself being new to this genre, I can say this game has me hooked. While being as brutally difficult as it's known for, it's also amazingly beautiful to look at, easy to get lost in, immersive, and enjoyable. I say all of that on the day after I lost a total 50k runes
One of the best games in recent years and my first souls game. Combat was great. The world was so interesting. The RPG options to build your character were great. Just *chef’s kiss*.
They say the game is different than other souls games and easier... yes it is easier when you keep farming for 50 hours
Engaging, hard, fun to play, no issues on PS5. Its an ideal game that can be made.. I come to this game every night.
This game is an absolute masterpiece. Fromsoft took everything they've learned over the years and rolled into one perfect package. The level desgin, enemy and boss design, the combat, the variety of builds and playstyles, and so much more. Best 60$. Ive ever spent. 10/10, would play a million times more.
It has been a very long time since I have enjoyed video games. Elden Ring changed that. I love the fact that it is up to the player how deep into the game they want to go. There is very little hand holding here. The more I started chasing the story and leveling up my character, the more enjoyment I received from the game. Elden ring is the only game that I have ever played that I had 100% completion.
A masterpiece **** made fun of by people who are terrible at gaming. Get Good! Or go pound sand. This game is very methodical. Where unlike a game like Devil May Cry where everything is based off quick evasion skills and high octane game play, while dodging is absolutely vital in this game, knowing what move your enemy will use is far more important. Huge land with many bosses to encounter. Anyone who loves this genre will feel at home with this. granted. I am really tired of the knock offs of this genre of action game. Bring back games like Devil May Cry and Ninja Gaiden.
Malenia, O Malenia! I defeat Malenia. Joking aside, this is the first Souls game I've ever played and I really liked this game. It was a game where I really felt that I was getting stronger, and I was extremely happy when I defeated the bosses. It was a great experience for me with art design, boss design, music, in short, everything. After Elden Ring, I will play other Souls games.
Everything about this game is pretty great, and pretty much a near perfect game with flaws so minimal that it really doesn't make this review score any lower than it should be. Also all of the 0 reviews are just salty that their favorite game for GOTY didn't win lol.
From world building, soundtrack, designs, bosses, enemies, graphics, mechanics, gameplay, everything is perfect, a very big world and that will never cease to impress you how big and varied it can be.
Amazing game! I've never been so engaged with a game like I was with Elden Ring. Every single aspect of the game is just perfection. I love that it is challenging but it gives you mechanisms to make your experience easier. One of the best games of all time indeed!
One of the GOATs, here's why. *This game may not be for you, but it's perfect at what it sets out to be. It is the perfect high dark fantasy, action rpg. Visuals- Graphically not the greatest ever made, but the design and locales are insanely well made and detailed. Absolutely some of the most gorgeous locations and game design I've seen. Whether it's your first dip into the depths, or when you beat the first major boss and see the landscape out in front of you that's about to be your playground/deathbed, or seeing the magical academy for the first time. It's some of the most memorable moments in modern gaming. Not an overexaggerating. Music- Score and effects are fabulous and keeps you engrossed in 100+ hours in. Gameplay- You get the rock solid souls gameplay, thats been now tweeked and matured to a fine edge. Now with more choices than ever before for how to build your character and how you want to fight. Magic is fabulous, the swordplay is rock solid. The game keeps the souls difficulty but gives you a bigger toolbox against its world. I'd say it's not as hard as previous souls games, still harder than your average rpg/action game. It feels right, when you die you made a mistake, it's not bad luck or bs. -Plot/Story- typical souls fashion, this is kinda on the wayside and it takes the approach of explore and save this amazing world. This might turn some people off, but its about the game and the experience you have in the world. There are side quests and characters to meet but everything is light and vague on what is happening. **What makes this game special or different? - It's sense of wonder, danger, and exploration is second to none. Some people talk about Breath of the wild in these ways but truly it doesn't hold this game's trousers. There are multiple moments of sheer wonder and magical excitement that happened in this game that cannot be replicated, it made me feel like a kid learning to love video games all over again. Walking up to the academy still gives me chills. Absolutely a masterpiece 10/10
At first I found this game too hard and nearly quit on the first boss. And you may feel this way too. But after looking at some YouTube starter guides, Elden Ring has become the best game I have ever played. So good I’ve played it 3 and a half times (3 for the platinum PS trophy, the half for fun). Some of the bosses were definitely too hard for me, but you can call upon some helpful players to assist you, or in some cases do it for you. I summoned one online helper who used a sorcery that burst a magical beam at the boss for like 8 seconds and it died instantly. But, if you managed to overcome a boss yourself, there is a great sense of achievement. The open world has an interesting design and (mostly) makes you want to explore. Unless you wanna make a B-line to the end. There’s also so many different ways you can play the game - whack stuff with a big sword, use magic and more. And there’s so many unique weapons to make ‘builds’ out of. There’s only two problems: bosses being reused, and caves/catacombs/dungeons. The second main boss is literally put into an eveergaol (a mini-boss arena, there’s multiple) but they changed like 1 or 2 letters in his name. Why? I get that they may have ran out of time to make a new boss but I’d rather get a random boss than a reused one. Also the caves and dungeons are really repetitive and the boss at the end is usually really easy and forgettable. Mainly because it’s easy to go through a dungeon that was designed for a low level than you currently are, which can definitely happen. Other than that, perfect game. I don’t want to lower the score to a 9 because it does everything else perfectly. In short, play the game. The positive reviews are all correct.
Sometimes it just all clicks, graphics, theme, score, this game is the best FromSoftware has brought to us thus far. One of the things that sets Elden Ring apart from Dark Souls is the difficulty. As a player you now have more options to make the game a little bit easier or harder as you see fit. Making it by far the easiest Souls game for new Souls players. This is the first game I got platinum on PS4 and PS5 and even went as far as NG+8 and I'm still enjoying this game...
The immersion and difficulty of this game is fantastic. U dont want it to be that difficult? There are plenty mechanics to enjoy the game if u like it more easy. Wonderful game and surely one of the games released the last years. But the open world is something i dont like!
A game to play NOW! GO TO BUY, BUY, NOW THIS GAME, if u don t rush the game it isn't difficult
I have been a fan of FromSoftwares Soulsbourne games for a comparatively short time, around 5-6 years. This being said Elden Ring blew it out of the park for me. There was a great deal of hype surrounding its release, I don't know why but it just didn't seem interesting to me. When I gave it a shot I was addicted. I sat in my tiny dorm room transported to a wonderfully dark and interesting world that I was entirely not ready for. As I sing praises for this game there is something criminal that plagues it. A certain area you are transported to near the end of the game contains three bosses "which I know of". One of them (technically two) is the worst boss in the game, relying on unfair mechanics to punish solo players and people who do not use tear summons. The other two are incredibly hard, but also incredibly fun. However, I have noticed as I reached around NG+7 that the first and last boss have become devoid of meaning, only existing to haunt my desire to get back onto the game. The second boss within the area is a hidden gem though, quite literally. This area and the boss that redates it are the only reasons this game isn't a 10/10 though. I highly recommend you play this game.
The game is perfect for me. It is so big, so great and so beautiful. Some things become repetitive (dungeons, mobs) but the main dungeons (with shard keepers) are really great. Also, you can just rush the story if you want but I did ALL activities because the game is great. Also, the platinum is native and doesn't require 100 NG+. I will definitely replay it in the future.
Amoneste juego. Mi novia quería jugar conmigo y se lo compré para disfrutarlo junto. Pero el sistema de invasiones es una porquería como poco. Está desequilibrado. La invaden personajes mucho más fuertes que ella y la matan de uno o dos golpes y los invasores se la pasan huyendo y si tratas de ignorarlos, te persiguen con ataques a distancia o magias (no tenemos tiempo para perder con ellos). Nosotros sólo queríamos divertirnos juntos y ella quedó asqueada con el juego, sólo por esas invasiones. Para mí sería un 10 en el resto de los apartados, pero si no puedo disfrutar de uno de mis juegos favoritos con mi novia, es un 0. I love this game. My girlfriend wanted to play with me and I bought it for her to enjoy together. But the invasion system is crap to say the least. It's unbalanced. She is invaded by characters much stronger than her and they kill her with one or two hits and the invaders keep running away and if you try to ignore them they chase you with ranged attacks or magic (we don't have time to waste on them). We just wanted to have fun together and she was disgusted with the game, just because of those invasions. For me it would be a 10 in the rest of the sections, but if I can't enjoy one of my favorite games with my girlfriend, it's a 0. It's not just with my girlfriend, it's the same with my friends.
9.2/9.3 Incredible game, my favorite FromSoftware game. My favorite bossfights and locations. Looking forward for their next project
Best open world game to date with Zelda botw and totk. It is worth it ! Tough but not unbeatable ! Great job from software are usual !
177 hours in this game, easily earned a spot in my top 3 favourite games of all time. If you like exploring a beautiful world, this one is for you.
Before starting this review, I must acknowledge that a 10/10 does not mean it was a perfect game. Elden Ring absolutely has its issues. But if I were to average out all of the 7/10 moments along with the 12/10 moments, I really believe it would average out to a 10/10. This game far exceeded my expectations in every way imaginable. It was my second FromSoft game, following Dark Souls Remastered. The art style is absolutely breathtaking, with nearly every screen looking like it was ripped out of an oil painting. What's most remarkable is how many moments of guaranteed genuine surprise that they baked into an open world game: the first time you take the Siofra River Well elevator and see the underground night sky, jumping over the wall that leads into Caelid and seeing its blood-red sky--along with many, many others. The world is equally breathtakingly beautiful and terrifying, with creatures that will make you truly panic (the Royal Revenant comes to mind). The quality of the bosses here, are top-notch as well. Having now played all of the Soulsborne games, I can say Elden Ring has some of the best bosses, perhaps second only to Sekiro. I've heard much criticism about the bosses difficulty level, that it is so overtuned so that spirit summons are needed or some such. I completely disagree. I went through my first playthrough with plenty of summons or ashes of war. But later I went back and went through the entire game with one of the slowest weapons just for fun--the Great Club. I can tell you that even Malenia has guaranteed openings to hit a fully charged R2 with this super slow weapon. The bosses are just harder and more complex than before, with branch points in their combos based on your positioning--and I am here for it. It absolutely feels unfair at first, but once you've decided you're going to take them on solo, melee-only, it is an absolute thrill-ride. And, if you'd prefer to Comet Azur them while your Mimic takes agro--go for it! Elden Ring absolutely has its flaws (rewards for finishing dungeons not always being exciting, re-used bosses, etc), but this has to be the best game I've played in years.
One of the best Open World Games of all time. It's an instant classic and an absolute pleasure to explore. From the technical side it's pretty underwhelming though... Performance is honestly terrible and the music isn't as good as DS3 or Bloodborne.
what can i say, i have had weeks of fun with this game and every time i turn it on i discover something new in the world
This game have so good open world and there are lots of weapons and then this each one weapons feeling you are playing a diffrent game . Boss design is wonderful
Every game after Elden Ring feels bad :( No other game had such an impact to me as a gamer. It has everything
Contents monstrous Artistically it is of another category and excellent level design The cons too much recycling from old games fromsoftware Recycling the same bosses and dungeons Not a huge optimization
Revolutionizes open world RPGs. Most accessible soulslike (from FromSoftware) to date.
the best souls after bloodborne an open world wonder just bothers me a little bit about the boss recycling
This has been the best first-playthrough of any game I ever had. The open world is beautiful and super fun to explore, easily the best open world we've seen so far. It's a challenging game, but never too difficult to master, and never frustrating because of the high amount of checkpoints. There are also plenty of tools in the game to make the combat much easier, such as summoning other players or NPCs for help or doing a mage build. The Story might be too difficult and complex to understand for the casual gamer, but it is very deep and interesting. The Soundtrack is beautiful and fits the game perfectly. The Art Direction has never been better. You can look in any direction in the game and it looks like a painting. There are hundreds of weapons, pieces of armor, shields, spells and more, giving the player an insane amount of options for their builds and adding a lot of replay value to the game. Bosses have very well telegraphed attacks, making it very fair to fight and learn them. Gameplay: 10/10 Combat: 10/10 Music: 10/10 Leveldesign: 10/10 Performance: 8/10 Bossdesign: 9/10 Art Direction: 10/10
One of the best games i've ever played in my life. just git gud, stop whining about dificulty and enjoy.
---{ Graphics }--- ☐ You forget what reality is Beautiful ☐ Good ☐ Decent ☐ Bad ☐ Don‘t look too long at it ☐ MS-DOS ---{ Gameplay }--- Very good ☐ Good ☐ It's just gameplay ☐ Mehh ☐ Watch paint dry instead ☐ Just don't ---{ Difficulty }--- ☐ Just press 'W' ☐ Easy ☐ Easy to learn / Hard to master ☐ Significant brain usage Difficult ☐ No more, please ---{ Story }--- ☐ No Story ☐ Some lore ☐ Average Good ☐ Lovely ☐ It'll replace your life ---{ Game Time }--- ☐ Long enough for a cup of coffee ☐ Short ☐ Average ☐ Long To infinity and beyond ---{ Score }--- ☐ 6 ☐ 7 ☐ 8 ☐ 9 10
Redicilously overhyped game by a studio that has been releasing the same game with the same (outdated) engine for the past decade. All they have going for themselves is a ravid fan-base that cum everytime FromSoftware repackages the same game and critics who are excited that the game doesn't have quest icons (or any sort of guidance). But how about the 101 of good game-play, such as: Technically modern game? Responsive and fun combat? Widescreen support? Modern UI that doesn't require a tutorial to navigate? Elden Ring has none of that. Why? Because From is technically complacent...dare I say...lazy? As much as I'd love to join the circle jerk about their open world design, I just can't enjoy it because of the reasons noted above.
This game is truly a masterpeice. It truly embodies the essence of the soulsborne series, the bosses are bigger than, they're stronger than you, you will die, but you won't give up until you have killed them. This game has one of gaming's hardest bosses, Melania, blade of Miquella, and this boss feels so rewarding when you finally beat her after overcoming so many challenges. All in all this game is truly a masterpeice and I can't wait to see what fromsoft makes next, but most importantly, we need more blaidd.
Most polished game I’ve ever played. Absolutely brilliant. Took about 250 hours to beat first time round and just started second play-through and I don’t usually bother playing a second time.
I beat the game after a 215 hour first playthrough. Two weeks later, my gaming has moved on but my mind hasn't. I'm still reading about ER, thinking about it, and watching videos about it. No game has a ever gripped me like this.
No, just no. If this is the direction developers are taking it's a sad future. If you were to say this is a 10, subtract 1 from the horrendous controls. You are constantly fighting the camera, even with all the "assist" options disabled. This engine is showing its age. Constant micro stutters where the camera is moving just a little bit in the opposite direction you are attempting to look. Subtract another 2 points for the control scheme, OMG. It's terrible. You want to switch to your bow, then back to your sword. Plan on performing a button combo as if you're playing street fighter. I would describe it as the developers just kept adding things to press and got lazy with the ergonomics. Just trying to swap out a weapon or cast a spell breaks immersion because you have to do mental gymnastics with the buttons, on top of reacting to boss fight mechanics. Just terrible. Subtract another 2 points for story direction. The developers get George R. R. Martin to assist. Now this one pissed me off, the marketing sold this as a story, "we got the mastermind behind game of thrones to write the story". But then they don't tell you anything, you have wander around aimlessly to discover the "story". Imagine paying for what you're told is a movie only to discover there was no director. Just a bunch of actors wandering around aimlessly. You'd walk out of the theater and demand a refund. I'm done with this review, there's so much more that was annoying and immersion breaking. The game is hard, as expected, but the thing that draws you into a story and immerses you into the gameplay is not there. It's a slap in the face to read and watch people praise this as the "bar" for game development. You want a fun game to play, immersive and with an amazing **** Dead Redemption 2, that's the bar. Not Elden Ring.
A really, really good game but people need to stop acting like Souls games and the new Zelda games are the second coming of Christ because they are not. They are very good but still generic games that do nothing that other games have not done before and also not in a more outstanding. Even the whole difficulty and no handholding thing is an idiotic thing people say because anyone who has some honesty admits they looked up videos or guides and that renders the point of "oh, how cool, no handholding and what a challenge" void. So, yes, it is a 10. But no, it is not a masterpiece, it is not legendary and it is not one of a kind.
This is the most fun game I have played in recent years, allowing me to experience an epic adventure.
This is easily the worst From Soft game ever made. Played through this game entirely feeling as though it was the end of From Software making good games. Where do I even start, the game will either overpower you in certain areas, or be under-powered compared to the areas you may have previously traversed. The would feels lazily made with many rehash enemies and bosses from previous areas in this game and other From Soft games. The world is really more or less a "Souls-borne gallery" with no real heart, passion, or soul poured into the making of the game.
It's a solid game. But nothing more than a mod. It feels like Dark Souls 3 in slow motion with meaningless encounters. The level design is significantly worse compared to the Souls Games. It feels like someone used an editor and just put mobs into a world and built some sandbox-like dungeons and ruins. It is really terrible that you actually can go everywhere but you get just killed in some locations meaning you are wandering around looking for playable content. The Story is even qorse than in the Souls games. And the media is giving 96 points.. total joke for this empty game.
this game is a masterpiece. i guarantee every single person who gave this game a 0/10 gave gow ragnarok a 10/10. its a trend here
I’m a casual gamer. I’m not good at gaming. I play most games on easy or the setting just above easy. I despise beating my head against a wall trying the same thing over and over when something is difficult. I used to despise soulslike games based on my limited playtime with Dark Souls and YouTube clips I’ve watched. I’d scoff (on the inside) at anyone who said their favourite game was a soulslike. I considered them purely in the domain of try-hard Chads. Since I picked up Elden Ring, my stance on soulslike has taken a 180. I am throughly enjoying it. I’m finding that if I end up in a situation I can’t handle, I can go do something else for a while until I get geared/levelled enough to take on the situation. There is still some head banging, but it gets completely overshadowed by the sense of accomplishment I get from felling a difficult boss. The story is interesting and captivating. The world is beautiful and worthy of being explored. I find I’m often excited and/or surprised. The fighting mechanics are easy to learn. Fights that seems impossible at first can be observed until the patterns become clear enough you can eventually dance your way through them. Tiny mistakes are brutally punished sometimes, but I find that makes the successes feel all the more successful. Even farming trash mobs feels like I’m getting in genuine practice, and there are enough drops not to make it feel like a waste of time. Before my time with Elden RIng I would have thought it completely ridiculous to recommend a soulslike to beginners or casuals. Now, I’d wholeheartedly recommend Elden Ring to everyone.
Flawed Masterpiece. The world is the best looking in gaming history Really satisfying exploration and the way the dungeons are scattered really encourages exploration The main Bosses are just too great And all legacy dungeons are awesome On the other hand ..Reusing bosses a lot was really annoying and prevents me from calling this game the best in history .
A gigantic world to explore and a good difficulty. I can't stop playing. The best from software game.
This game is wasting money and wasting time. Worst game in my 40 years of life i've ever played. There is no explanation from the developers how to play the game. no explanation of what is going on. You spawn in the world, read some notes, empty world, you meet extremely strong npc's who kill you instantly. It is impossible to play this game. Unfortunately I bought this game on Playstation and Sony operates the rudest customer policy out there. Sony doesn't refund customers even if you've only played for an hour. A return via Steam on PC is possible as soon as you have played it for less than 2 hours. Thank you Sony Playstation & Elder Ring for giving me such a terrible piece of sh** experience. Next time I'll think twice before buying a game from the PS store. Unfortunately, I already bought a PS5. I should have known all this before...
After playing Dark Souls 1,2 and 3, Eldenring is the cherry on top. The first playthrough is breathtaking, the level design often amazed me in between. You dive deep into a mystical game world that is very addictive. The story is wrapped up in a soul typical way, you have to search for it, which is good, it's more realistic than 20h video sequences. The game is challenging, if you understand it this challenge is very fun and rewarding. The music is perfectly tuned and immersive. This game is a masterpiece. 160h so far, thanks for the experience. For the insecure, play it for at least 20 hours and it will grab you and not let go until you finish it!
Nothing short of bombastically epic, thrilling, and amazingly incredible. explore the lands between, find hundreds of things, well designed boss fights, while with varied levels of challenge, that only makes every breath of this game predictable. one moment your exploring the vast lunaria lakes, then you might feel like trying to fight you way the terrifying scarlet rot infested caalid. variety is the name of this game, the many different builds you can make and invest into if you so desire. yeah you can't use your fists, but really all you need is just one weapon, and then the world is your to devour. plus the idea of a fromsoftware game being "accessible" isn't a critique, it is an upgrade, it doesn't matter if you summons, or poison darts, all it means is more toys to play with to eventually beat the game. this is not the hardest game in the souls series, everyone should know that, but that's ok, this game should be everyone's first soulsborn game, it doesn't put you in the same kind of box as the other games, with the many different conveniences to the player, like torrent for travel and speed, croach to sneak and a jump for many more possibilities of level design, platforming and exploration, which they do not disappoint on actually taking advantage of. while this game is the easiest in the franchise, it's only possible because of the tools, the boss fights are a MUCH different story, as Radaghn, Morgott(despite on getting way to easy over time) and the fire giant has sent shivers to some players spines thinking about them. and of course Mogh, maleketh, and the death of me Malenia(Blade of Michela) are ruthless, and are very unforgiving even being quotable as some of the hardest in the franchise with especially malenia competing with the likes of the nameless king and the orphan of kos as the hardest of the hardest. well at least it will be a little easier than trying to break down in tears of how great the game looks. HOW THE F*** DOES THIS GAME HAVE AS MUCH BEAUTY AS IT DOES, THIS IS THE OPITAMY OF BEAUTY IN CARNITE!!!! and that's all I have to say about the graphics. game play is tight, and as strategic as ever, with the same micro management of certain items during combat, reckless game play is still really frowned upon so its still soulsborn be weary of that, as you still need the kind of patience you need with these games, take your time to learn how the game works as per usual, but it takes that.... and lets you become GOD if you want to, just look it up i guess, no big deal. the story, while as vague as before, you will still find pieces of the puzzle scattered if you look around, and it is an incredible story. I am an incredibly snobby story writer, so I can stress how much this story treats it's self like a genius curtain unavailing at any given turn, the care and intricacies of each piece put together as a story only makes line's like malaketh's heartbreaking line"you come to covert destined death. to kill what?" and as one of the last bosses of the game, one of the last bosses in the way to become elden lord, you do question what was the point of make the fire giants race extinct, just so you can burn the elden tree so you can become elden lord, is it necessary, yes, will you being elden lord change the fates the people in the lands between, yes, but what if the good is only temporary, what if it doesn't change it for the good. it all piles on with sentimentality, the question with the lack of answers. why? thy flame burns bright will thy flame become embers that grace the future of many experiences to come or will it engulf the fertile and wisen our next generation of artists. giveth the wisdom to the many weak minds we have been disgraced with giveth grave to the ones who need it most touch grace and believe in it. Sorry not sorry for the poetry
Might be the best game ever made ! Period ! Also the best open world ever made. Thank you FromSoftware.
Overrated… I played previous Dark souls titles and played demon souls when it first came out all that time ago. None of them were ever GREAT games. They were okay, and you know it. Dopamine release upon beating a, usually, buggy boss (“it’s a feature!”) doesn’t make a good game This is bland, mostly empty, with mediocre graphics (for something “next gen”. I play lots of indie games, but they don’t call themselves “next gen” and charge you next gen prices). I dob’t understand mob mentality, wanting to praise this just tot feel like they belong to a group, get that dopamine release. Man, if this is “the future of gaming” i’m going to need to hoard current and old gaming systems and games because we are in for so even blander and more mediocre days my friends. Stop being controlled by over-hype, and FOR THE LOVE OF GOD stop becoming fanboys that ignore all the bad and protect big ass companies as if they’ll ever notice you or thank you for shilling. Had to put such a low grade to compensate for those damn fanboys that put 10/10 without ever thinking what a 10/10 means. When reading reviews, I usually trust the 7-9/10 so much more than the 10/10 when it comes to positive ratings.
Great Game, Perfect Bosses and perfect difficulty and a crazy amount of different weapons. Al in all just Perfect
Amazing, but nearly overwhelming. Don't get me wrong, it's brilliant, but there is almost too much to do. I wish there was more mystery as well; the story line is a bit straightforward for a SoulsBorne game.
A masterpiece. Brilliantly designed gameplay, stunning visually and musically, punishingly difficult in places forcing you to learn and adapt rather than just button mash, and with a story and world to lose yourself in.
the game is fun but I really just came here to talk about the low reviews. Some of the low reviews have very valid points. But a lot of low reviewers want their hand held, others are just dumb. What's that you say? No quest's you say? no story you say? I suppose your right, the game does not have a mini map telling you exactly where all of your side quest's are, or a submenu under the mini map telling you exactly what it is your supposed to do for the side quest. Why is that? Because the game is challenging you to figure it tf out. Use those few brain cells of yours to play the game, after all you have to be able to read to get the story in this game. There is a story being told not directly but environmentally and within literally every item in the game. Also if the game is too hard for you I don't think that's a valid criticism, I beat the game (no im not the only one who has beaten the game) and lo and behold its not that hard. The game definitely challenges you at times, but there seems to be quite a few gamers out there who have never heard of a challenge. I love the variety of different builds, I love the combat, I love the world they have built. All in all a great game and am hyped for dlc!
I love this game. I'm a huge fan of souls games and this one did not disapoint. It's not the hardest one, but it still offer a good challenge. The bosses are interresting, it's fun to take time to elaborate a strategy for each new level.. the art, the music and ambience are great. It's well designed, there is main content, hidden content.. you get to make decisions.. Most game now just take you by the hand and make you walk from point to point, feeding you the story with cinematics. Not Elden Ring. The souls games are now the only ones I'm waiting for, and the only ones I'm comming back to when everything else is kinda boring .
Elden Ring, my first venture into the Souls series and from this particular gaming development company, surpassed all my expectations. As a non-Souls player, I embarked on this game with no prior experience or knowledge of its difficulty. However, it quickly became my favorite game of all time due to its immersive campaign, incredible characters, and unparalleled gameplay. The game offers a rewarding sense of progression as you grow stronger to confront a vast open world teeming with formidable enemies. Overcoming challenges that seemed insurmountable before was an immensely satisfying experience. The world itself was a marvel to explore, requiring you to piece together fragments of a puzzle to unlock new areas. The sheer scale of the map left me awestruck, and the game's emphasis on exploration was mind-blowing. Elden Ring's rewarding nature truly captivated me. What sets Elden Ring apart from many modern games is its departure from the online service model and complete absence of microtransactions. You purchase the game as a whole, and it delivers exactly what it promises. While it may not boast the level of realism seen in games using the Unreal Engine 5, its visual presentation was still remarkably beautiful and satisfying. Reflecting on my experience with Elden Ring, I long to erase my memory of it just so I could relive the awe and surprise it brought me. It truly is a game that leaves a lasting impression. If I were to suggest areas for improvement, I would express a desire for expanded multiplayer options. I would love the opportunity to venture through the game alongside a party of friends. Additionally, updated graphics and improved character movements for the next generation would enhance the game's overall experience. However, it is important to note that these minor shortcomings did not hinder my overall enjoyment. From this point forward, I proudly consider myself a devoted fan of FromSoftware.
An experience entirely unique to prevailing western methodologies in game design. That succeeded in fusing all of the best parts of the predecessor soul series into a blockbuster game. This is a cornerstone game of the century. And will undoubtedly provides the most to the games industry in terms of what lessons, could, be extracted from it--for all of it's success and what it subverted.
Elden rings re-playability, difficulty, scenery, and gameplay are defintly worthy **** of all time pick, however, a few aspects, like bad target lock on, unfair enemy attacks(godskins fireballs are the most obvious), and a few other inconveniences are things i wish were ironed out in a patch or game release. but overall it is a must play, and has many features top make the game easier if you struggle with its difficulty.
Great game that has done everything really great. Music, gameplay, story, open world, everything is just simply 10/10. The only thing that bothered me is that I prefer linear direction for FS games. There are so many bosses and you really can miss much because its so vast open world but without clear story (which is normal for FS games) that better works for linear aproach but that just subjective. Music is fantastic. Gameplay smooth. And open world is very immersive and you can easily lost hundreds hours in it. Anyway this is masterpiece!
this game is good I like that but ...everything is very repetitive from dungeon to bosses and everything And it's boring are they going to open world crap bcz casuals this is nothing new or unique just dark souls 4 open world ..overhyped and overrated
Elden Ring is an open-world masterpiece that combines FromSoftware's signature gameplay with a unique twist. The combat is fast-paced and challenging, with a wide variety of weapons and abilities. The storyline is captivating with a deep and complex lore. The visuals are stunning, with breathtaking landscapes and detailed character designs. The game offers a vast and diverse landscape to explore, from towering mountains to dark dungeons. Overall, Elden Ring is a must-play game for fans of the action RPG genre.
My first “Souls” game after Demon’s Souls and Bloodborne, and man it was definitely WORTH the wait to play it for a whole year with amazing gameplay, an incredible open world, INCREDIBLE graphics and overall while it is the definitive game of 2022, this and God of War are the ultimate experiences of 2022 that you must play.
"Exceeded the hype but not without faults" Watching a lot of user reviews here, shockingly giving this a 7.9, I can see that the negative reviews fall into two different camps; the people who thought this game was too hard and rated it poorly for that by either blaming themselves or the game, and salty DS fans who are so angry that this isn't DS 4. Both of these types of reviews should be ignored. This game is a bit like my previous profession software engineering; you have a task that must be completed and whether not it is difficult or not entirely depends on how you utilize the tools at your disposal. The reviewers who thought this game was too hard often did not properly utilize their tools or built their character, like software, on a poor foundation which led to poor scalability, making their life more and more difficult as the game progressed. This has been one of the best gaming experiences of my life. I have not been addicted to a game like this since I was a child. The world itself is one of the most beautiful I've ever seen with secrets behind every corner. The game has over 77 unique and epic bosses and even 60 hours in, I have not seen the game get sloppy like I did in, say, the last chapter of Divinity 2. Being an open world, the game gives you multiple ways to tackle a single task allowing for a huge diversity of builds and playstyles. The sheer amount of weapons, weapon abilities, and spells are jaw dropping. Hats off.
I really love Fromsoftware and I loved Elden Ring and platinumed it, but this game has some issues. The game is just way too big. I would have prefered a smaller game with good and unique bosses, instead of forgettable minibosses scattered all around the game, placed at the end of the dungeons and mines. The bosses in the Late Game are not good and it doesn't feel satisfying to defeat them. Malenia is one of the worst bosses Fromsoftwarte designed. Only a few bosses come close to the quality of the Dark Souls III bosses (Mogh, Placidusax, Rykard...). The design of the Legacy Dungeons is a bit weird. Why not just stick with the more linear design of the levels like in the Dark Souls games? I mostly enjoyed the startings areas. Can't wait for the Expansion and I hope they will improve on the boss quality.
Elden Ring is the definitive experience of a souls-like game. You can play hours non stop by is addicting formula. Pros: The combat is very diverse, each build feels different and also great. The story/ lore is very rich and keeps the essence in which the world tells you the story. The games motives you to explore every area and you are heavily rewarded with great weapons or by finding new characters which contributes to lore. The art design compensates the graphics making it a great visual experience Bosses are well designed artistically and they also delivered great combat experience. The best aspect that it solves are the checkpoints that are near the boss fights, different from dark souls that you need to restart from a bonfire that was not near the boss fight. Cons: The game has not the best graphics. You can get lost some times so you should look to a guide even though is not necessary. Technical issues( i mean how the game was designed), like the fall damage of the horse, how can easily can be quests be lost frustrates me, etc, Even though you get used to it.
Combat feels clunky and unfinished. Graphics are great but the combat system ruins the game
Superb game and visuals but difficult to me to play thats why i dont want to play this agian
Boring in my opinion, all you do in this game is ride around and kills enemies constantly. Game is shockingly hard and probably wasted so much time that I regreted playing this game
As long-time FromSoft fan, I can safely say this game is good. Not great, not a masterpiece in any sense but definitely good. The game for some reason is open world, meaning there are vast expanses of empty land for naught to do but traipse through and kill mobs of enemies. The art direction is brilliant, the music is also amazing but sadly this game sorely lacks that hopeless (Dark Souls 1), Melancholic (DS 2 ) or apocalyptic(DS 3) atmosphere that make FromSoft titles stand out. I sunk 60 hours into the game and once I realized that the game simply does not respect my time I had to cut my losses and move on.
Elden Ring is more of a work of art to me than a game. In map design, combat system, effect of the performance, and artistic style, Elden Ring deserves the title of the game of the year. Although many rookies will be discouraged by its extreme difficulty and relatively insufficient guidance, by overcoming it, there will be an endless sense of accomplishment waiting for them. “Though the path be broken and uncertain, claim your place as Elden Lord.”
This is nothing but a “Push Button at Exact Moment or Die” game. This is all you’ll be doing from hour 1 to hour 100+. That’s all this game has to offer. You lizard-brain skitter through it. Difficulty is nothing special, same enemy double standards seen in every game. Damage sponge enemies vs 2-3 hits = dead. Homing attacks and projectiles with massive hit boxes vs your lame limited move set. Hardcore gaming has become a joke. Developers and publishers would rather reskin, repackage, and crank out what was successful before then dare try to innovate. And that sums up AAA games for over a decade.
Truly masterpiece with few minimal issue, imho. Best OW with RDR2 and Zelda TotK
Eldin Ring is best game I've played. Best visual desıng. Best combat mechanics. Really good open world. Really good hit feedback. And finally a souls classic best bosses with bad camera angle. i played over 50 hour and This game didn't waste even a minute of my time, some people say optimization is bad but I got stable 60 Fps on 2K with Rtx 3060. Overall 9,7/10 Yes this is MASTERPIECE
THIS IS A MASTERPIECE !! A mast have game.I can't decide if the better game I ever played is this, or the lou1. A beautiful perfect game!!
It is the greatest game ever made. That's about all I have to say; about that.
Still the souls games are weak from the narrative telling factor.. the world are fantastic however the game its not for all the gamers.. its too hard.. nice to try but its not a fun experience for the beginners
gud game (sorry for lack of effort spent hours on review but it got deleted while being made)
Elden Ring is easily one of the best and most memorable games I've ever played. Fromsoft managed to polish and combine almost every good part of their previous titles, and make it work in an open world formula. The game is huge and filled with a lots of quality content. The art style is beautiful, many unique areas, great boss encounters with banger soundtracks. The exploration is really rewarding and fun, and even after 100+ hours I still felt invested and wanted more and more. As a big fan of the Soulslike genre, this game made me fell in love with video games once again.
Rewarding combat and best art. One of the best worlds in gaming hands down!!
Its everything that made Dark Souls great improved and put in the best open world Ive ever explored. I think some of the lategame bosses and areas are not super well designed but the Elden Ring experience was truly unique and I have finished it 7 times.
Wasn't a big fan of souls series, but this game was super fun to play. Amazing game.
I'm not very good at playing souls-like games. I think that this fact has been key to being able to enjoy this game to the fullest. After 140 hours of playing and having completed it 100%, it has been one of the most immersive experiences I've tried. At the beginning I was dying constantly and I was forced to use all the tools that the game gave, finally I was able to improve and end up dominating the game. Despite being an unbeatable experience, the final stretch of the game is unnecessarily long and less inspired than the opening part.
Every single fromsoftware game is epic. I liked Elden ring. It’s a bit long however with crap games going out these days, it is not difficult to make an above average game.
Another extremely rare example of a open world feeling truly worth exploring. Elden ring has an absolutely enormous amount of variety in enemies, areas, weapons and playstyles. While alot of deaths do feel pretty unearned, the aspect of difficulty still does alot for the overall experience, even though it's a bit excessive at times (sekiro did this better in my opinion, by having a revive and not insta-killing you by falling of a cliff). Elden ring's massive amount of content provides one of the best and lengthiest experiences available in gaming. Though sadly without a search engine, alot of the most impressive spectacles will be missed by a gamer playing it blind (the right way to play these games), but when you do occasionally find something incredible, it feels amazing. Truly a must play for everyone who calls ****.
Having played this to death over the last year or so there’s not much left to say about Elden ring that hasn’t been said, it’s an absolute masterpiece probably one of the best games ever made in my opinion and the most obvious 10/10 I’ve ever given, I absolutely love this game and can’t wait to see what Fromsoftware produces next.
This game is perfect. It consumed my life for over a year. The right amount of difficult, a world you can literally get lost in, amazing soundtrack, amazing characters, deep lore. The DLC cannot come soon enough.
After playing over 100 hours, I can see why people would like this style of game, but I can confidently say this style is simply not for me. The open world was clever and cool at times, but I still have no idea what is going on as far as story goes, which might be part of the schtick but like I said, this style just isn't for me.
Elden Ring although has a rough learning curve is one of the best open world games to ever exist. A must play for any gamer, and the perfect introduction to Souls Like games.
Too hard, grinding 6 hours to beat a simple boss a waste of time, open world feels empty and traversing was tiresome because how big the map was. Elden Ring is a major disappointment as someone who was a fan of Bloodborne.
Perfect game, there is nothing i would change its just perfect. FromSoft delivered a masterpiece once again!
I can't believe I spent almost my hard earned money on this game, very bad, graphics, bad, horrible gameplay, didn't deserve game of the year
best game game ever don't listen to people who says otherwise they are clearly jealous
The Best Game I Ever Played in 30 years of gaming. Period. Can't wait to ER2.
What is there to say. I think it’s one of the best games ever made. It inspired me to go back and play every other from software game. I’m not sure, but they create a magical experience.
As fan of from software i can say i am little dissapointed of elden ring. I admit the open world is one of the best i ever played, but i think they rushed badly after the capital, where a 9 game become a 5 game. Anyway i know from software will master this formula for the next game.
Hard to put down why this game was so good for me. Suffice to say I usually manage one play through of the best single player games, but for Elden Ring I ended up doing 5 runs across 4 character classes across about 250 hours. A key part of it is the fairness of the game. You could, if you were good enough, complete the game without levelling your character at all. There's only one difficulty setting, which I love as It really creates a sense of community with other players. Similarly there are no random loot drops or similar, instead every weapon and every character is exactly where the game designers intended. It is hard, particularly at the outset whilst you figure things out, but that is seriously mitigated by the open world design - if you can't beat a boss or area there will be an area where your skill level matches the enemies where you can level up. But crucially all of the content is so consistently good that this doesn't feel like grinding but exploring and making your character stronger. And the reward for stretching yourself is real with powerful items stashed away in the areas you are scared to tread. The combat mechanics have a beautiful and brutal precision. I saw one reviewer desribe later boss battles like a dance and that feels right. I had a misspent youth in various Muay Thai and boxing gyms and this style of combat appeals to me so much more than the button smooshing, mob exploding experience of some games. I would fall asleep at night with my mind racing through how to improve my build with a very fair and interesting system. The story is opaque and strange, more of a imprint of past events which you uncover fragments of as you explore. You can play without multiplayer entirely and the game will be wonderful but when you do start using it there is a subtle but genuine sense of shared joy in the movements and actions of fellow players. There are no microtransactions. You feel as if the content and experience are utterly paramount to the game designers and producers. In a world where the board room permeates the texture of so many games the sheer authenticity and purity of Elden Ring is an absolute joy.
One of the best games I've played , as a souls game it was very very good at every thing From the gameplay to the world and bosses and how big the game is .
Best game I have played so far. The music, bosses and weapons are wonderful designed and the open world made the souls borne source even better for me. I would highly recommend to everybody to play this game. I liked every main and side boss (not all the bosses in the dungeons) and fought them with fun and I didn’t care how many tries I needed. For me it is the best FromSoftware game so far (didn’t play bb and sekiro though).
These FROMSOFTWARE games have struck a chord with a particular type of gamer - and I daresay, not a classic gamer that have explored various genres. There's a writer named Dan Brown, whose fiction novels garnered A LOT of critical acclaim; but amongst those of us who enjoy a good sleuth, and have much experience with various crafts-people of the trade, we knew a charlatan when we saw him. See, Dan Brown relied a on a 'rinse-and-repeat' style of writing - a 'writing-by-numbers', if you will. In essence, each story contained the same characters, plot devices, story arcs and climaxes. It was cheap - and, might I add, intellectually insulting. But despite the objective criticism of connoisseurs, the media machine was fully behind Dan Brown, and the Asch Phenomenon claimed another victory. So, too, to FROMSOFTWARE's rinse-and-repeat genre. I refunded all of my FS purchases safely within the allotted window before I was stuck with an intellectual insult. "Souls-like" should NOT be 'a thing'; more appropriately for the RPG-genre, "Fable-like", or "Witcher 3-like" - but this farcical, reskinned money-grab does not deserve a category unto itself. The power of marketing (and mass persuasion) indeed....
Best game I’ve played in ages. Loved every brutal moment of it. Caelid was so unsettling.
This game is good but definitely not the perfect score that it gets game lack direction and any good story the story is same old one but just told in a different way honestly sounds like a washed up lord of the rings story
This game told me to GET GOOD and i did. Great locations, Great combat system, Great bosses. this is the SOULS that every one wanted to play
Apparently this is a must play by "critics" ok, so you open up the game and your greeted by an empty world with no music..... aimlessly wandering around and your sitting there thinking "why am I playing this? its not exciting at all" not a lot of story , no villages with npcs to talk to, just a whole lot of depressing emptiness. Combat is also basic and not fluid compared to recent releases like Sekiro and Nioh 2. compare that with an actual open world game like Skyrim, it has an exciting intro, great music, great map design, many cities, fleshed out lore, a lot of random npc encounters outside of villages. Skyrim is just a complete game and Elden ring lacks basic elements like overworld music and story. I enjoy playing exciting games and Elden ring is an empty boring snoozefest.
Just amazing, I wish other game developers would take note on how to make a game.
The greatest action RPG of all time, probably the greatest open world game of all time. The setting is so rich in history and detail, the combat mechanics so diverse and so responsive, the enemy and boss variety so extreme, the scale of the world so vast and the amount of secrets within it so rewarding... The joy of exploration was so overwhelming the first time I played it that I was afraid it would be diminished the second time, but the gameplay is just so good that it was barely a factor. This is a solid contender for the greatest game ever made.
It's open world darksouls Sadly it couldn't reach it's full potentiell Nearly all of the bosses just couldn't compete with the bosses of the soulsborne games There are a lot of reasons why i feel this way but i'll just shortly explain it A huge amount of bosses are reuses Duo bosses are way to common and are not properly designed to work well with each other(the godskin duo is the best example for this) And a lot of bosses just have way to much going on in their moveset which leads to me not feeling like i'm fighting a cool ancient warrior but a magical unicorn that farts rainbows But not only are the bosses some of the worst of all from Software soulslike games but also its unique aspect (the open world) just isn't good The open world is filled from Top to bottom with items, enemys and sometimes bosses but sadly the items are for the most part awful , the game gives you no good reason to care about the enemys (you can easily ignore them because you're faster than them and they give nearly no runes so killing them isn't worth it) and the bosses in this aren't good enough to be something exciting to look forward to This game also has a lot of cool weapons Would be a shame if the game wouldn't give you enough resources to level up and use those weapons And i know you can buy as much Upgrade materials as you like but sadly to be able to do that you first have to find multiple hard to find items and then also have an insane amount of runes to get the needed materials Also this game has some pretty crazy difficulty spikes which i found to be rather annoying This game could have easily been a 10/10 but instead they failed to give the game what it needed in to many aspects
One of the best RPG games, and also One of my favorite games too. It's perfect, details, boss fights, enemies, areas, skills, everything. And if you like soulsborn games then What are you waiting for, Go for it.
The term reinventing the wheel could satisfactorily define this game but I prefer to say that they have improved the wheel and made it more useful than ever, it is a rewarding, vast, varied game that offers an almost endless range of possibilities and gameplay, in 210 hours of gameplay I found myself discovering things I hadn't seen before, the fun factor provided by online pvp is wonderful, I'm really looking forward to a DLC expansion.
Horrible empty open world, very generic, literally the same as the other souls games.
This game is very unforgiving, but this is kind a problem i have with souls-games in general. The combat is too linear and there is no real movement based combat.
The endgame is a little unbalanced for me, other than that it's an almost perfect game. An open world dark souls and it works extremely well. The art design, the music oh my god.... can't find the words to describe. Fantastic game.
For me, Elden Ring is a Masterpiece! One of the best games I’ve played in all my life! Congratulations From Software.
Best game I ever played . I need 75 characters to post this "Rating" So 123456789
Elden Ring is a great game the boss fights were challenging but would highly recommend
Incredible game that breaks the current mainstream norm of hand holding and treating the gamer as an idiot. IMO one of the greatest games of all time.
Its a great game the only problem is yoy can farm and get to much op and the game to easy
Late to the party but the game is amazing have not finished it yet but am having a lot of fun it may be my second souls game after bloodborne or my fav if it keep the same quality and i didn't have any performance problems as some reviews says the frames sometimes go crazy when a lot of **** is happening but it's not noticeable most of the times
Elden Ring is the most Ambitious FromSoftware title to date. For the first half of the game, I was blown away, the Open World is huge and there are so many things you can do in it, it's absolutely groundbreaking, there are so many areas to explore, a huge map full of castles, ruins, dungeons and cities... even underground cities! It's honestly crazy, this game is insanely big, it has everything you'd expect from a Medieval Open World RPG. Although the gameplay is identical to previous FromSoftware titles, there are indeed some minor tweaks and changes, new magic spells, a ton of additional weapons to use in combat and many more. Summons are also useful, and quite necessary in some cases. As for the lore, it's pretty deep and interesting for the most part, the game always encourages the player to keep learning new things via exploring or reading. The boss fights are spectacular, most of them look phenomenal, their movesets are varied and the animations look gorgeous, however, the game is unbalanced, with some questionable difficulty spikes specifically towards the endgame. And lastly, there's a lot of recycled content, all the dungeons look the same, many boss fights are reused, some areas look identical but with different colors... there's a lot of copy paste, which isn't necessarily a very bad thing, but it's worth mentioning. Elden Ring is the true evolution of the genre, an amalgamation of everything FromSoftware has done the past few years, and the ultimate souls game. Final Rating: "Masterpiece" ~ 10/10.
I you like challenging combat and endless play style combinations Elden ring is amazing. If you’re a more casual gamer with little patience who plays games on easy or normal difficulty probably not the game for you. Stop posting negative reviews because you bought a souls game expecting it to be easy!!!
Loading screen stuck at 100%, I was 80 hours into the game. Internet is full of such complaints. Video games typically have multiple auto save files in case this happens but this game doesn't. And you can't create manual save also. If you are considering to start this game, know that you might lose everything at any given moment.
Just a masterpiece, I enjoyed the game like no other in many years, FromSoftware is just the GOAT
Elden Ring is a massive game with challenging boss fights and enemy Encounters. Like other Souls games it has a learning curve it's not a game you can just jump into and start "winning". You have to take your time and learn the game mechanics and enemy attacks and figure out how to avoid them. Also take you time to explore and find new weapons and abilities that can help you in combat. Do this and you'll have a great time with Elden Ring. As it's not a game that will hold your hand. The game has so much to see and explore. And there's a lot of ways to customize your character to create cool builds. It provides a great challenge that feels rewarding, the world is full of interesting sights and encounters, and the combat is fun and thrilling. My only criticism is the Quest design and the lack of hints for finding certain npcs or completing certain objectives. I had to refer to a guide several times just to figure out where to go. While I like that there isn't much hand holding in the game I got annoyed when I missed an objective and an npc died because the game did not provide enough information. The Dark Souls Quest design does not work well here in Elden Ring because you have a huge open world as opposed to smaller interconnected levels. Which makes it less obvious of where to go. But despite that Elden Ring still ends up being one of the best games of 2022. And my personal top 10 games of all time. Due to the sheer amount of locations, weapons, abilities and boss encounters all that make Elden Ring an epic experience.
Detailed world with tons of different enemies. Tons of secret places. Awesome looking places and good fight mechanics. Powerful bosses. When you killed one of them you are feeling like you earned it. I'm feeling like I'm not an animal who kills a boss with spamming a button on game pad
The open world was very beautiful. The main bosses are all very interesting for the most part. The balancing on some of the late game bosses, however, were just awful. Malenia, is a cool looking boss with cool lore but she is not well balanced, just stupidly hard for no reason. Friede in DS3 is a good balanced boss fight, it never felt unfair. Also i did not enjoy all the recycled bosses it gets old 50 hours in, But besides that the game is one of a kind and most games don't come close,
One of gamings crowning achievements. Looks amazing, gameplay is great, incredible world building, some of the best and toughest (without summons) bosses ever made, I could go on.
One of the best games I've ever played. It's endlessly brutal but gives you a lot of options to come back to a boss stronger. If you're stuck, explore the beautifully crafted, atmospheric map and level up, use the life-saving spirit ashes, or get help from a friend. The game respects your intelligence, dropping you off in a world with no guide, allowing you to explore and make your own path. I'm sure everyone's experience is different. I couldn't believe how big the map is, it just opens up more and more as you go along. This also features some of the most exhilarating boss fights I've played, and the forgiving placement of grace sites allows you to keep trying without having to run through a portion of a castle, fighting enemies, and losing your health before you even get to the boss again. The story line is a little obtuse, you'd definitely need to do some extra homework to fully grasp all the things at play here, but it's all secondary. What comes first is the art design, atmosphere, and addictive gameplay.
Boring game with only combat as a driving force. Beautiful world, boring story, I'm still scratching my head over why people think this game is so great. Play Witcher 3 instead.
I finished the game in 140hrs. It is a very exciting journey. I really like the aesthetic of the game. If you like action games and fantasy genres you must play this game.
This game is the best game I have played so far. Everything is perfectly done. The open world is excellent and better than any other game. The lore story is perfect. The game play is fantastic. I have played for over 200 hours and can't stop.
If you love tediousness then this is the game for you. Boring, repetitive combat and tedious enemies what more is there to say.
Look lika a dark soul game, just with a better graphic, gameplay is the same as the old dark soul i don't like this type of recycling
Elden Ring's a masterpiece, and he's mastered the art of showing without telling. As a result, it's very different from other open world games I've played, such as Skyrim and Far Cry, which are narrative and quest driven. The Elden Ring doesn't impose any particular play style or route into you from the getgo.
Boring, repetitive, overrated. Big world but empty. Dark souls 3 felt a ton better that this.
One of the best games I really like this game All software games are great
I have always struggled and gave very quickly on soulslike games but Elden Ring changed everything for **** you are still one of those please try again and stick to it until the end it will be an amazing experience and you will become a fan.
Outdated graphics with Unbalance game with terrible controls doesn't make it hard, the game is frustrating.
The best game in my life, together to RDR2. It's fantastic and beautiful in all aspects
This game is phenomenal from start to finish, the world, the bosses, the lore, is all incredible. This game is truly a masterpiece.
It is a perfect game. Fun, challenging, gorgeous, a massive map, pacing is excellent, and the open world has no restrictions.
The game is extremely rushed and full of issues which lets the good sides down. For example the Ps5 version still hasn't even got vibration support! The game has been out a year now and they still haven't bothered. Instead they will patch a rune glitch which is slower then killing a bird then resetting at a site of grace. PvP in this game is terrible compared to every single other souls game. The ashes of war are extremely unbalanced. It's so easy just to win by doing something completely broken. Summoning has completely killed the game for me. Instead of them being a slight boost to distract the boss for a couple seconds so you can quickly sort yourself out. Instead they grab the bosses agro for ages so you can get half their health down if not more and have little to no risk while doing so?! Because the bosses are built around this mechanicthey are a mess if you don't use them. The open world map was amazing and some of the best work from software has done but the enemies are just copy and pasted several times you get sick of seeing the same ones. Even most of the bosses are just regular enemies with a health bar at the bottom of the screen! Including the same health. You get rats and countless other enemies in some places which have 100 HP and a rat in another place with 1000 with the exact same texture! Why didn't they change the texture to match the environment and then change its health so it feels more consistent. This is across the hole game. Within the 1st couple zones you would have already thought more or less everything with a few exceptions. It's just gonna be different health bars from then on. The story isn't bad. The lore is easier to follow in Elden Ring. I thought the fingers looked cringe thou. Faith has seen a huge upgrade making faith builds actually more viable. There is a ton of spells to choose from aswell. Ashes of war seem like a good idea but in practice I think it would have been better if they had a few weapons with a set ash of war that you can't change. That way the weapon would be balanced around it. If you can throw it on anything you get broken weapons that are far to op. All in all Elden Ring would have been good if it wasn't rushed out the door. And they didn't have summoning.
I refused to play this game for a year, convinced I'll not be able to. And when I gave it a try, it changed my life. I was addicted in the first 10 minutes, only stopped after about 450 hours and a platinum trophy. The world building is incredible, the characters are amazing, the story is intricate and awesome, and Malenia became one of my favourite characters of all time. I don't have enough words to praise this game. Thank you Fromsoft, Myazaki and George RR Martin. Yeah, I was mad at you,GRRM, for not writing Winds of Winter and got stuck on this game, but not anymore.
Never play a souls game before but this is one of the best games I play in 2022. I fell in love with this kind of games and i look forward for the dlc
This is easily one of the best open world games ever made! After playing Red Dead Redemption 2 i was left pretty disappointed by open world games for a long time. Then Elden Ring came out and the rest is history. One of the best settings and gameplay in any open world game ever! The environments are just full of character and the locations are some of the most unique in any video game ever. There are endless builds you can use. I played with dual Rapiers and was pleasantly surprised that dual wielding weapons of the same type unlocks a unique dual wield attack animation that does a lot of damage if fully executed. There is so much content in this game that my first playthrough took over 150 hours!
The best souls-like game out there. It's perfect for the hardcore fans and for those who just want to hang out in a souls-like world and feel what it's like to play those kind of games. I'm saying this because this game is NOT HARD. You can create your own challenge, but at the same time you can just create mage, use summoning and game will because much easier.
What else is there to say about this masterpiece, soundtrack phenomenal, lore deeply vague and intriguing, combat has a the perfect mix of Sekiro, Bloodborne, and all previous souls games combined.
My desire for story games is gone, one of my friends told me that you should try the Elden ring, it’s got high ratings and got the game of the year. I told myself I was going to give her a chance, and I didn’t think I was waiting for the greatest game in the history of games The game prepared the passion for the games The Best game ever 10/10 By the way, it's not medicine
This game is literally a masterpiece, i don't care if someone says it is trash because it isn't and the game got what it deserved. 10/10
Suffered for about 40 hours before I gave up on mindless wandering, repetitive bosses, and clunky, frustrating combat dynamics. Perhaps I needed to revise my build, or maybe try a different gameplay style but I decided it wasn't worth my time. Deleted and moving on. Happier for it.
This is the first game in years that has pulled me in and grabbed hold of me. I've never played any Dark Souls games before so I wasn't ready for the difficulty. It was frustrating at first but the game gives you chances to improve and the feeling of overcoming real challenges can be really gratifying. If you're after satisfying combat and an immersive world with a huge amount to discover then is for you.
simply the best game ever made. it's a masterpiece in every way; the art/design and aesthetic is the best any game has ever had, the music is some of the best in gaming history, the gameplay is fantastic, and the story is one of the best in any medium. 100 years from now, writing courses will be including Elden Ring in their curriculum, for its symbolism and metaphors, the richness of its worldbuilding and environmental storytelling, and the way it weaves its story around the player, through various intuitive means, rather than heavy-handed exposition. it's simply a masterclass in storytelling, not to mention the incredible story that's being told.
The high critic score is a case study in what happens when hype builds for so long. Similarly with all these 10/10 ratings. More and more people simply cannot think for themselves. This is arguably the worst soulslike game (better than DS2). The open world is large, but lifeless. The exploration can be good, and really does shine when you come across legacy dungeons, but the open world is such a waste of time. The bosses are a smidge better than those of DS2, but there are so many with so few having high quality. The delayed attacks are so frequent it makes fighting jarring. Not difficult, just jarring and lacking in rhythm. I've platinumed Bloodborne, Sekiro, DS3, and DS2 (and completed DeS and DS1)...this is my least favourite by far. Though I can see how on an objective level it's superior to DS2.
Have never played a Souls game before. Elden Ring is one of the best games I've ever played, full stop. Incredibly difficult/challenging, but rarely unfair. An insane and gorgeous open world dense with lore -- worth every minute of exploration. I've put nearly 300 hours into ER, and can't wait to play more.
Elden Ring has been one, if not the biggest disappointment in my time gaming by now. While the world certainly is well thought out and beautifully designed, the game is poorly optimised. You cant take one step without running into any sorts of pop ups or frame drops at some points. (luckily the frame rate drops have almost completely been solved by now) Nethertheless the game does not care a **** about telling you where to go or what to do, so that you will be stranded in this gigantic world without a clue on where to go, which will then result in countless deaths due to you running into enemies which are way to overpowered. And once you find the right NPC to move on, you will be met with a cryptic information dump, which cant be processed quick enough, so that you will almost certainly end up on Youtube trying to figure out what the F to do. In my over 80 hours with this game I have only been able to kill the first five story bosses. 80 HOURS! And I am not even counting all the time used to look up things on the internet related to this game. I don‘t want to spend the little time I have left of the day being torn in half over and over again by a boss, which took me an additional 3 hours to find. The overall gameplay loop just consists of running around trying to level up, getting side tracked and finding a random side boss and finally trying to kill named boss for the next few attempts of dying, respawning, running back (whilst being constantly annoyed by regular enemies on the way) and then being killed by the boss again. For anybody who hasn‘t anything to do and has 200+ hours of free time: This is your game. Otherwise I can not recommend buying Elden Ring. Yes, the story is certainly great, the boss designs are cool, but it all comes down to the same frustrating same gameplay loop. Overall not a great game. If you do still consider buying a other Souls Game get Demons Souls Remake, it is way better without the open world aspect. And one last thing: This isn‘t meant to be personal in any kind of way. If you like Elden Ring its cool to me, but please try to accept my opinion on the game aswell.
Just perfekt the beste Open World Game of all Time , just a masterpiece……..
I'm frankly pretty surprised how widely acclaimed this game is. The huge world is devoid of anything interesting other than battles, the score is terrible other than a few standout bossfights and in the open world score is often bad enough to become actually grating, and there's nothing resembling the faintest bit of interesting story or lore here as there are no concepts in it fleshed out enough or given enough background to be even vaguely compelling. The combat, though it is wonderfully varied in the way you can approach it, in practice ends up becoming fairly tedious b/c the game is challenging enough that you don't really have time for experimentation/exploration (unless you can stand a lot of repetition), you just need to optimize a build and some builds (particularly magic) are spammy and repetitive. And again b/c of the annoying repetition that comes with wandering around and dying, you end up having to look things up to get sufficient tools to make meaningfully progress to actually open up the places you can go. Thus having such a large open world becomes fairly meaningless as the joy from exploration is **** out of it. On the one hand the open world and and leveling system with diverse possibilities and the very impressive variety of enemies and environments is very attractive and makes me want to like the game, and has driven me enough to spend some 50 hours with it and at times really enjoy the experience (mostly when I was able to explore without dying constantly and the world was still new). But on the other the above detractors end up adding up to a rather drab experience overall where I feel like I'm running around without much interesting to do. Compared with say Skyrim which has rich possibilities to explore the world outside of combat with a sensational score to go along with it, playing games like this just feel fairly empty. But I guess they have a large audience. Sadly it seems I'm just not one of them.
A game with one of the most magnificent worlds that frankly I think I’ll always remember exploring.
I enjoyed the game it just was not my game of the year and as someone who really loves story games it just was not what I was expecting because it was my first Souls game. The combat is challenging, but it is really enjoyable. It was fun to try something new and I would recommend for anyone looking to mix it up.
I have created my account only to say they Malenia is one of the fromsoftware worst bosses ever made only because of one annoying mechanic. The late-game difficulty, poor balance, and unfair bosses truly make elden ring a **** masterpiece!
honestly one of the most enjoyable open world game with plenty of stuff to do without being overwhelming
Amazing!! Took me a lot Hours to get the Platin Trophy but its worth. Cool and Big open World. Crazy Magic Spells and Crazy NPCs
This is genuinely a well crafted game: excellent writing, art, animation, sound, design and music went into it. I truly do respect the game developers behind it. But ultimately it is not for me. I found the UI to be cluttered and overwhelming, the multitude of stats and facts felt like a poorly structured info drop, the punishing world was intriguing but the harshness of it made it impossible for me to continue. I would have loved to see more of its lore, and experience more of the game, but with my poor motor skills and working memory it's simply not possible. I know this was not made for gamers like me. It was made clear to me early on. But I wish it had a mode that did. I want to experience more of Elden Ring and I can't, and it's very frustrating.
A very fun souls game set in the open world area of the lands between. There is a lot of content in this amazing game including a 36 side questlines 6 known endings and a large variety of bosses, landscapes and weapons. My main issue with this game is that it wasn't longer as if you don't do any optional content the game is very short with only a few mandatory bosses, but i think this is balanced out by the increasing level of the bosses which requires you to do a little bit of exploration and grinding. Also exploration is awarded by weapons, lore and more content. There is also arguments saying that the game of the year is undeserved but i disagree with this statement as even though i agree that god of war: Ragnarök was amazing, elden ring surpassed in combat, exploration and storytelling.
Definitely overrated, I just got the Platinum Trophy and just can't for the life of me understand why people think its worth of GOTY. Its good and fun sure but visually aged, and game mechanic is repetitive. Not boring but repetitive. Not worth a buy but maybe a rent or borrow from your friends to try out. Story is really stupid and always nonexistence.
Elden Ring's open world and bosses may come across differently to players depending on what they're used to. The exploration is some of the best in any open world game I've played. While the scale of this aspect may be overwhelming at first, it's a rewarding experience that also makes the game more accessible, without skimping FromSoftware veterans on the staples they've com to expect from the Soulsborne series. My one criticism is the difficulty spike in the back half of the game, which can make it feel like the clock is has been turned back on your leveling progress. Late game enemies and bosses have much higher damage output compared to previous Souls titles. It puts the game in this weird place where on New Game (or "Journey" 1 as they call it), the first half of the game feels well balanced, and the second half is tough as nails. When you get to NG+, the first half of the game feels too easy, but the second half feels closer to the way you would've wanted it to feel on your first playthrough. My only wish is that they had ironed out this balance a bit more, so that the game's difficulty had a smother progression instead of starting off slow and then flooring it halfway in. Despite it flaws, this is probably one of my favorite games I've ever played. There's quite a lot to unpack and it's best enjoyed without rushing in or having expectations of what you're going to get out of it. Everyone's experience is going to be different. If you don't like spending time trying to figure out obscure clues to access the secret areas and bosses this game has to offer, there's nothing wrong with looking up a guide here and there (and in some cases it's quite necessary). For longtime players of FromSoftware's games this will more than likely be a treat, and for players new to Soulslike games this one is a great introduction with a lot of fun to be had.
Very good, great and wonderful game I just finished it and I've got to say it is in my Top-10 favourite games off all time, and I am going to 100% it (36/42 at time of writing, malenia is hard and i'm stuck lol). The adrenaline you get from the fights is so weird feeling, and after some Boss-fights my heart was thumping so hard and I was shaking so much I thought I was going to die, which was a strangely fun and felt especially rewarding after the 30 or so attempts it took to kill Radahn, but it still has a few "small" issues like re-using bosses, I didn't mind but I can see why that would be annoying to some. Also screw you to anyone who says the graphics are bad, are we even playing the same game??!!??
Dont listen to the fake reviews, this game is actually a 10/10 or maybe 8/10 at the lowest. Its an amazing game.
This is the perfection of fantasy gaming. It was my first Fromsoft game and still my favorite! Incredible worldbuilding, characters, and gameplay! Hard but balanced — except for that super difficult boss at the end of the tutorial!
bad game boring enemy all mechanics was taken form the souls-borne games ..
Souls game with 0 story. When you drop in a game you dont know were to go or what to do. So 1 strike could kill you... Must watch youtube to know what to do step by step... Hate souls games...
elden ring is a very good game, I would say one of the best that has ever existed yes it can be a difficult game but that does not mean it is bad, it is a game that tests you, if you get frustrated try it again until you succeed I highly recommend it (don't listen to people who say it's bad because it's hard) thanks for reading
for those who likes souls like games, this game is perfect! I spent many hours playing and there are still things to explore
What i don't really get about all these low ratings here is how someone can buy a soulslike and complain about it's soulslike-style. Elden Ring is a soulslike in an open world. And while this is its biggest strength it seems to turn out as its achilles heel as well.
Way too hard, couldn't get past the title screen. Getting a refund right now.
Best Soulslike ever made, actually actually ties with the new Demons Souls Ps5 soul when i thought nothing would passa Demons Soul this bad boy come along and surprises us all, well deserved prize
The definitive From Software title. From have managed to take everything they've learned from all the games they've produced and refine it into a single experience well beyond my wildest expectations. My only grievance with this game was the poor PvP balancing early in it's release year. Other than that, this is one of the greatest games of all time, I'm extremely glad it won game of the year.
I just can't get on with Elden Ring. Not sure the soul's formula really works as an open world game. It's also a technical mess on PS5 (over a year since launch). Bloodbourne was the high point of this genre for me. I keep going back the Elden Ring and I just don't see why this is as highly rated as it is.
Elden Ring is quite simply a true masterpiece that will leave its mark on video games for a very long time! What a journey, what generosity. Thanks FromSoftware.
Random game lacking story and objectives. Waste of time and money. The graphics are ok, the game play isnt fluid. Its made for people without sense of time and do not bother spending 10 hours roaming for nothing
0-2 star reviews are people whining or trying to bring the score down because it's "overrated". 3-4 star reviews are people who can respect the game and admit it's not for them or rarely people whining. 5-7 star reviews are people who had a good time but are complaining about bugs or just some things didn't feel right to them. Maybe the reuse of bosses? 8-9 star reviews are people who get how amazing the game is but are not delusional enought to call it a masterpiece. 10 star reviews are people who are oblivious to the flaws, or fromsoft fanboys trying to bring the score up because it's "underrated". If you like hard games, worth the money. If you don't like hard games avoid this game. 10/10 lmao
Buyer beware: if you have no experience with this genre whatsoever nor enjoy games that give you the keys to figure it out, you won't enjoy this game, maybe at all. Luckily, there are ample walkthrough and build guides to help you out (FightingCowboy and Fextralife are true heroes). It's worth checking them out. This is truly a masterpiece of a video game and one of the best open worlds you'll find around. From art direction to combat to player option, The Lands Between is your oyster. All things surrounding the story, gameplay, side missions and pacing are perfect. My only knock on this otherwise perfect experience is anything dealing with online play (co-op, duels, arenas) is a serious headache that isn't at all seamless. It would have been nice to play with a friend who was struggling or is new to Souls and not spend additional time trying to summon or gathering Erdleaf flowers to simply link up. For 2023 standards, it's a below average multiplayer experience. Also take into account current gen loading time discrepancies steep if two people aren't on the 5/X. Unfortunately, it's noticeable enough to dock an entire point.
Ethereal game with the best world design i've ever seen. A work of deep passion where the crazy difficulty level withstanding you still want to keep coming back for more.
I m a hardcoe player as long time ago. Elden ring isn't really hard game . But fi you want to be a souls player .this game is nice
Hands down one of the best RPGs, maybe even the best souls-like, I´ve ever played. Even when you think, that you explored every corner of the lands between, you might get surprised by several hidden paths, walls and dialogues while hitting the 300+ hours playtime. Really excited for the DLC!
the culmination of 10+ years of amazing game development. Fromsoft is def the goat in game development
This game has lower design levels but the Bosses! the bosses are crap! The best game of the souls like genre was definitely Bloodborne because it looked and felt somewhat unique. I wasn't a huge Sekiro fan but at least there they tried to shake up the visuals.
Its rare that a game with this much hype lives up to expectations dare i even say exceeds them.
This was the first soulsborne game that I played and I got so addicted to it that I didn't play any other game for months, and almost completed it 3 times. From memory, after 2 playthroughs I had poured 260+ hours into the game. My only complaint is that, because I became so addicted to it, I never want to play it again - 9/10.
A bit too easy and approachable for my liking from what I've experienced so far.. Also, no Ultra Wide Support without modding and offline mode? They've even gone the extra mile with black bars... Seriously? That alone gives this otherwise good game 1/10.
I love game music and game lot action and like control fell like was game and good day
My reviews are always based on fun and I did like the game but it is very confusing and very big. It is a massive open-world souls game with a lot of ways to play but you have to grind a lot to level up and there is virtually zero direction. The game runs well and is beautiful on PS5, loading times are almost zero it loads really quickly. However, I felt totally lost after a couple of hours but continued exploring, grinding, rinse, and repeat. Eventually, I managed to get to the Academy after 40 hours but I spent almost double the hours trying to kill "Rennala, Queen of the Full Moon". There is only so much a person can take doing the same thing over and over again and getting zero results. This game is not as much fun as I had hoped as all your doing is the same rinse and repeat which becomes tedious. If you want a game that doesn't overwhelm you try Bloodborne.
TL;DR: This game raises the standard of what a "10" is. I understand that this game is not for everyone. It is punishing, especially for my first FromSoftware game. For the first 6 hours or so I hated the game. It felt unfair and unlike anything I'd ever seen (not in a good way). When it clicked though, it clicked HARD. Every movement you make must be articulated and it is rare that you can defeat a boss through hacking and slashing. There are other games I have given a 10, but all of those need to move out of the way, because I did not know a game could be this good.
Elden Ring is the antithesis of the bloated, over produced, unimaginative side quest stuffed open world game that has become so popular. It feels like a true adventure - you against the world. It’s hard but you’re free to seek easier areas of the game and come back to harder parts later. Over 100 hours in and I am still at the edge of my seat. The intensity of combat when you are right at the edge of your skill level is really something. Adrenaline pumping. Yes sometimes is can be frustrating so it best suits individuals with a persistent attitude and a desire to overcome difficult challenges. It’s probably not for everyone but it has been a great experience for me personally. I love this game. I also like games that focus on story - they are very different games and thankfully we don’t have to choose only one thing in life to enjoy.
first of, this is my first souls game ever. I always been interested mainly because of the art and bizarre vibe where nothing is like you think it should. But the main thing that kept me away is the degree of difficulty. I play a lot of games, always solo. All from big AAA to smaller indie games and I have nothing against a challenge but I am not the one that want to repeat the same boss over and over and learn the exact the movement pattern like a rhythm game. I want my adventure and then move to the next one, don´t have time to become the best for a specific game when three more waiting to be played. But with all that said I felt that I needed to test this one and I loved it! Sure I had to level up like a madman to get through some bosses but still, I loved the exploration, to never know what strange thing waiting around the next corner. It ended up that I visited the whole damn map and probably did most things you could do. So here comes some pros and cons.. + Few open world games can really surprise me and want me to explore. Before it was probably only zelda breath of the wild that gave me the same tension. so this is super rare. Not like all the copy paste games ala ubisoft where you know almost exactly whats up around the next corner even in a newly area. + the twisted art direction. Sure its not the latest high tech materials and vfx but the art direction is super unique and thats more important then shiny god of war tiled materials. + So much love put into areas thats not on the main story line. Areas that is super easy for the player to miss. - online mode. Yeah I know this is the one of the main thing about the game, but I turned it off directly. To see other players jump around,, glowing messages all over the world and so on ruined the loneliness and the vulnerability vibe, I want this to be only mine adventure. But easy fix, just turn it of. Sure, you will miss all the hints buts its up to you to explore even more now. - A bit flat NPC:s. Just standing there and say their lines and then not so much more. Would prefer a bit more complex ones, moving around, doing their thing.
Beautifully done. The world is so immersive and reflected my struggle to progress. Beating a game like this made me appreciate what a struggle it was to get there.
Elden Ring is one of my favorite games ever and replaying it again on the ps5 is great. I cannot wait for the DLC! If you haven't played this game yet you should at least give it a try.
20230314 updat_e Finally, 2022 game of the year, gave to an open world game that you can only walk. And thanks dislikers, i decide to change 3 to 1. And i can say the 2022 game of the year should be stray, or god of war ragnarok. Media are all **** dogs, the are not gamer, just zombie. 2022 review Don't play this game! The author says he doesn't play the game himself! Your IQ is being insulted! If you don't use ashes of war, don't use additional vials, the difficulty of the bosses is unreasonable, the bosses has too much blood and increases unnecessary difficulty. All bosses play the same way, that is to roll in 0.x seconds before he drops the knife, which only increases fatigue and has no fun. Bloodborne is better!
It´s not perfect but the experience of playing for the first time is unforgetable. I can´t say a lot that haven´t been said already, but the replayability and combat get way too much hate. The replayability isn´t that much of a big deal considering the fact that the game relies so much on the combat. The combat is great, I don´t like to be that guy, but honestly most complaints about it make it seem like people who complain about it seem like they didn´t learn how to play it properly.
Game is pretty boring to be honest played about 50 hrs worth and was bored the entire time I mean all you do is kill the same groups of enemies over and over again and bosses just to get a few measly runes that barely level you up and some crap weapons unless your my friends who just buy all their gear and runes from the Chinese the coliseum was nice but it never wants to work when my friends want to team up against other teams nothing but errors then when you do get a match hits are delayed or don’t even register half the time also the frame rate on ps5 seems inconsistent at times not sure why really just bad optimization I guess and the controls are completely miserable most the time doge run tied to the same button pretty lame and what is wrong with the targeting in this game never responds when you need it to
"The bosses are hard and the graphics are terrible" Skill issue + ur mom + buy this game + Malenia a baddie fr
The user scores for this game are a **** joke. All of the 0s here are from angry gamers that walked in expecting a watered-down open world with forgettable, one-dimensional plot points and characters and simple cut and dry storytelling. This game is not that. If you’ve played any of the dark souls, you know a little bit of what to expect. The lore/story is never explained directly; instead the enemies and NPCs you encounter all contain a little of the narrative, like little story biscuits that you have to digest in your own way, and absorb the overall narrative through item descriptions and short exposé. It’s a different method of game design to be sure, but just because your brain is too small to appreciate it doesn’t mean it’s bad. Not every game has to be AC Valhalla or Far Cry 5. The combat is brutal, sure, but that’s the point. You have to find a way to overcome challenging enemies. The world is varied and absolutely massive to explore, sometimes the long cave with the vicious mini-boss doesn’t yield worthwhile loot, but the real loot is the triumph itself. This experience isn’t exactly for everybody, but to say that it’s a 0/10 is extremely dishonest. Even if it’s not your cup of tea, it has to be at least a 5.
I had flirted with playing Fromsoft games for a few years before this game came out. It had played Bloodborne a bit and bounced off of it before reaching any major bosses. I had generally played games on an easier difficulty because I didn't enjoy the struggle. Elden Ring changed that. This game did a good job of always giving me something to do to get better and overcome every main story boss and many of the side bosses. The online community got me through all of it as well. This game made it possible for me to enjoy challenge for it's own sake by proving to me that I could overcome the challenges within this game.
Hitrollinghitrollinghitrollingrollinghithitrollingrollinghitrollinghithitrolinghitrollingrollinghithitrollingrollingrollinghit
Simply put : my favorite video-game of all time A masterpiece of design, mystery, exploration, combat and visual storytelling
Elden Ring is truly an incredible experience and a breath of fresh air in a time where it seems most AAA games don't live up to the hype
Deep, wide, and absolutely packed with adventure, Elden Ring's immense, deadly open world is nothing short of game-changing.
Very addictive and despite the frustration on some bosses managed to kill every boss in the game and grab the platinum. I went full strength and just swung my greatsword in front of me turning all enemies into a fine red mist.
Man this game is great. world design, voice acting, bosses (EXCEPT FOR 1 IN PARTICULAR AT THE END) gameplay, lore, and graphics are all fantastic. build variety is through the roof. this is Dark Souls 4, Sekiro 2, Bloodborne 2, and Demons souls 2 all in 1 great game.
FromSoftware once again made a masterpiece. This game has it all, atmosphere, gameplay, bosses and lore. It's not enough to describe this game.
Probably most addicting game since Breath of The Wild. Also probably the most frustrating game since, well, sekiro? The game is absolutely not perfect from technically standpoint as many reviews are giving out. I mean that is a fact. bad framerate, camera hiccups, pop-ins and generally unacceptable graphics for current gen. The world looks great but too many technical errors alone prevent this from perfection, period. The other half a point comes from the frustrating difficulty. I know it's supposed to be hard but there are some cheap deaths and and can really make you mad. Alas, somehow, it is the most fun game ever played. Great atmosphere, combat, story, music etc. I did get the platinum trophy that was an accomplishment was sad when it ended and glad i won't be breaking anything out of frustration. Whoever came up with "Death of the wild" describes this perfectly.
Its just a bigger Darksouls 3, love **** a bit too much senseless trails.
I just created account here only to rate this terrible game I wasted my money for. Simply boring, ugly, empty world. No story, no characters. Awful. I Can't understand such a high critics ratings
Absolutely perfect game. Beautiful environments, great bosses, and best of all no forced in-app purchases. 11/11
I love Demon's Souls and the other three souls games very much. But for this one, it's over-rated. The atmosphere in the open world is boring. The open world is not "open" but just filled with nothing, You don't know what to do next and just stay there.
It’s really a good game it took me more than 100 hours to finish everything in it it’s a masterpiece 10/10
I can't say anything more that already has been said. Just play it it's amazing lol
Didn't like it. I don't understand how this game got as much hype as it did. I've been playing open-world games for over a couple decades so I can tell you that this game isn't what it boldly makes itself out to be. Don't let the visuals fool you. The graphics are great - it's visually stunning yes but that's its only appeal. The overall gameplay is underwhelming and unimaginative and dull - the open world is bland and soulless. No distinction between NPC behavior. All NPCs you encounter seem to share the same hostile AI. The bosses are ridiculously overpowered from the start which makes combat in the game feel unbalanced. There are no quests and no clear objectives. You basically roam around aimlessly and get into frequent random fights. There seems to be a bit of bias with all the positive reviews as they most likely come from hardcore, devoted fans of the franchise. This feels more like an unpolished beta rather than a finished fleshed-out game. It would be an insult to compare this game to titles like Skyrim and the Witcher. Final verdict - The Elden ring is shallow and overrated. If you're looking for rich and engaging gameplay, I don't recommend.
Absolutely amazing game. The graphics are nice, the gameplay, the difficulty, the consistency. Some of these negative reviews are so stupid. You se people saying that well "Oh the game is too hard 0/10" Well then shame on you for spending your money on a game you obviously researched nothing about! Also people will complain **** changes it up too much and is inconsistent then when they find a consistent game say the exact opposite. Also people who seem to obviously not know this is soulsborne due to doing absolutely no research pick on it for primary features of soulsbornes. People are mad that the game isn't insanely linear and just assume there is absolutely no story instead of actually putting in the effort to uncover it. Again, people complain that it's hard. People say that the game is empty which doesn't make sense because there are enemies and dungeons everywhere. I guess they are just mad that it's not like the mainstream games where it's brimming with random NPCs instead of brimming with challenges. I also see people call the graphics awful and I'm like "Are you sure you're reviewing the right game?" People will also say this game is a ripoff of the previous soulsgames. That's the whole damn point. Elden Ring was created to perfect the souls formula not recreate it. People also say this is a downgrade which is strange considering I quite clearly recall the Demon Souls, the progenitor of the souls formula to be the first of it's kind. But mostly it's just because of people raging because of a skill issue. Another thing is this game isn't for casuals. Fromsoftware will NEVER add a difficulty system because the whole point is to get good as a gamer. YOU should've been aware of that before you decided to play this game. The idea is that no matter how good you are they want you to get good at the game. To grow. That is the purpose of Soulsbornes. To grow as a gamer. And I'm already callin' yall haters out because I know this review is controversial.
The depth this game is offering is just incredible. An open world that is ridiculously surprising and diversified. Quests, dungeons, enemies and friends... holy grail!
its a masterpiece, you cannot describe the world they created ,mind blowing ...
10/10 the best game I’ve ever played. Put over 500 hours into it and counting almost a year since release.
Each Souls game is better than the last, but Elden Ring takes it up to 11. If you're a fan of Souls games and want a grander experience, then this is an improvement in every way. The amount of quality in this game is jaw-dropping (that first time you take a certain elevator ...).
By PS5 standards, the gameplay is mediocre, the visuals are sub par and the story is abysmal. I really don't get this games popularity, I was so bored, so quickly. Play walking simulator (DeathStranding), it's somehow better.
Elden Ring is one of the greatest games of all time, and best the action RPG open world game. I had way more fun with Elden Ring than broing RDR2 and janky combat TW3, truly the best open world game out there.
I've heard alot of great things about this game so i decided to go and purchase it. When i got home i had high expectations and i thought that this would be the game that i would play 24/7 but no. The graphics was ****, and i had no idea what the f##k i was doing, even tho i did the tutorial. The only thing i liked about this game was the boss fights which i kinda enjoyed but at the same time not because of the **** graphics. This game is overrated and should not be worth more than 50$. If your friends suggest you to buy this game DONT BUY IT, you will most likely feel scammed like i did. My review 1/10
The map ****, the gameplay ****, the graphics are from 20 years ago, the game mechanics are absolutely **** right at the beginning of the game I discover it and it transports me to another end of the map, where I can survive for about two seconds. An absolute disgrace, I don't understand how this can aspire to be game of the year. Total bull****.
It's great. It's the best game I've ever seen. The picture is exquisite, the movement is smooth, and the design is exquisite.
The best game to come out since Skyrim in my opinion. A vast open world with endless challenges and many incredible locations to discover. Game can be as easy... or as hard as you want it to be. All a matter of how hard you want to grind for level ups. (Ashes and Co Op make this game a breeze as well.) Soo many different ways to play, spells, and ways to gear yourself to challenge the many bosses and unique enemies the game throws at you. If you're not interested in Adventure/ rpg genre this game would not be for you. if your preferred game is candy crush, or you're fresh out of your diaper phase, this is not the game for you. If you're review bombing because it got GOTY, or have little patience to overcome challenges/ research, this is not the game for you. 10/10
A great story of beautiful battles in a wide world with beautiful designs, one of the best games made by humans
This was one of the first soulsborne games I had ever finished, but it inspired me to try bloodborne, sekiro, and the dark souls games. This game was fantastic to its visuals to the boss fights. The only reason that it is not a ten out of ten is because there are a lot of copypasta bosses and enemies that are bosses early in the game
These low ratings are hilarious. Screw graphics, story, and quests. What's the gameplay like? INCREDIBLE. If you want a hand holding story game with dots on the map go play horizon or something else. You know what you signed up for when buying this game. This game is not like those games. It doesn't give you cutscene after cutscene telling you how to feel and what to do. It challenges you as a player to overcome the battles thrown at you. If you don't like it don't play from software games and stop review bombing like cry babies. I personally don't like story based games because the endless go do this, go talk to them, this is how I feel dialogue completely takes me out of the game because I am not making decisions for myself. I don't go and put 0 star reviews because I don't like a game type.....I simply don't play the game. Elden ring is the most approachable fromsoft game and I really hope they have some hot DLC cooking :)
Now i don't think it's a masterpiece or anything but i love it so much, i have to give it a 10
Elden ring got such an extreme hype train around it, far greater than any soulsborne game before. With this I am not surprised of the low scores of recent times. This game is not made for everyone, that should be apparent, things like difficulties would not work in it. The open world being actually open without a million markers seems to not appeal to many, ig people just like being told where to go and what to do. With the ui and ux that image of "if ubisoft made elden rings ux" speaks for itself. All these negative reviews as well are worded as if the people played the game for a maximum of 2 hours and never again. Of course ui and controls are gonna be bad when you have not had the time to get used to them. Of course you have no idea where to go when you have yet to get in the loop of this games type of exploration. It just pains me, i honestly believe many of these people would love the game if they just gave it another chance but oh well, to each their own.
It won game of the year for a reason. This game shows you whether or not you can push through adversity or that you crumble when things get rough. It’s not for everyone. Dying to a boss a few dozen times can drive you mad, but when you finally win it feels so good. You will die. You will get mad. But, victory feels so good.
I understand, that the open world scenario is controversional for some players. But we really should take a step back and appreciate what FromSoft created with this game; another masterpiece, which shows that they still are at the peak of their craft.
I'm not a fan of souls games but I was hooked on this game. The massive open world and addictive gameplay makes you want to explore every corner. My only negative is that the quests give you very little information on what you have to do to complete them and I found myself constantly googling the answers. This wasn't enough to mark it down though, this is a 10/10 game and potentially one of the best games of all time.
EXTREMELY overrated! Tons of reused assets, technically mediocre/outdated, repetitive enemies/bosses, very static and lifeless open world.
I would call Elden ring a marvelous masterpiece. For every plus there is a minus. For example: A large beautiful open world - most of it is empty spaces, fields. Incredible story bosses - boring, repetitive, and often they are generally ordinary mobs with a huge strip of HP. But still Elden ring remains one of my favorite games. And I will return to it again and again.
I don't like this game at all, I bought it and played for about 3 hours and deleted it, I don't know, the way the character moves is very pointless and weird, maybe because I haven't played their games before, I didn't like the graphics.. I'm an open world fan, but I didn't like this. It probably has a strong following when it was game of the year, that's why I just bought it, but in my opinion, the title for this game is totally undeserved!
Amazing game. If you liked any past From Software game you'll love Elden Ring. The game is great. Gameplay is definitely great
Preordered the CE. And I dont regret a single € i have spent. The game itself feels like a great combination of all Soulsbornesekiro-Likes together. It looks great. (The overall graphics arent great but the art style makes the game look stunning. Some shots are just amazing.) The map feels too big at times. I prefer the more contained maps the previous games had. But still just seeing how many great looking castles and dungeons FS could make just makes you going. Many enemies are just reskinned enemies in former games. But I dont think that that ruins the games, it much more gives the right amount of fan service without taking away its own right to exist. I think as a newcomer to the games it wouldn't be very fun because its extremely hard. But if you allow the game to teach you its a lot of fun.
just endless fun and huge universe. way more user friendly than the other souls games but still have that hardcoreness. absolutely must play
This is my first Souls game, and wow am I impressed. The visuals, the gameplay, are all perfect. Though it can be very challenging at times, I still enjoyed my struggles, and finally beating that boss I have been stuck on for hours. 9/10
This game is mind blowingly stupid. You will die a 1000 times and lose your stuff before anything significant happens. I cannot understand how this pile of crap got game of the year. The combat mechanics are absolute trash. This game is just another version of bloodborne or dark souls so why is there so much hype about it? Nothing new or creative. This game is way over hyped and extremely frustrating to play and the graphics are ok not great. The frame rate always gets choppy and runs like crap not polished at all
Huge and beautiful open world Game with spicy difficulty enemies to slay. For me GOTY 2022. Rise tarnished.
Honestly one of the best games I've played even in invasions not fighting is an option, a weird one, but an option. bosses are fun and are genuine, the experience of beating a hard boss after tons and tons of attempts can not be given by any game. A must play
This game is literally up there with Zelda, BOTW and Witcher 3. And the biggest compliment I can give to this game is: I have beaten this game 3 times. PONS: • Great story (but not the best) • Addicting combat • HUGE open-world • Full of content • Amazing Boss-Design • Breathtaking visuals • So much replay value • Vast variety of weapons and builds CONS: • The bosses Post-Game feel a lot harder than usual (for example Malenia) This game absolutely deserved GOTY 2022
This is in my opinion the best souls like. The gameplay is amazing, the graphics is beautiful, and I also love the newer update with the pop arena.
Atmospherically untouchable. Many reused bosses, though. Where Elden ring excels, is in its immersion for me.
WOW. What have I been missing? My first FromSoft game & what an amazing experience! Pro's: SO MUCH DEPTH, fantastic combat, & the best open world map I've ever played Con's: They need to upgrade the game engine...graphically lacking on PS5 compared to other games like Ragnarok and Horizon FW
My review on PS4 is similar to me, it's better here but no change in experience in this case
It's a 10/10 game. I come from playing previous From Software installments and the Freedom they give you is excellent. Haven't you got the medallion to go to Leyndell? Well, take a look at the map and you will find a mine where you can pass without resorting to the medallion. This is really an open world with a lot of content in every corner. An open world that you decide if you finish someone's story or not. Apart from the fact that an improvement in performance has been noticed, I could not run it properly with my previous graphics card. Now I can run it to spare. I've already had +300 hours and the game continues to make me fall in love. I find details that I hadn't found on my first trip. Going discovering the lore that for many is a nuisance, intrigues me more and more. Without a doubt my favorite game of 2022 and possibly the one I play the most in 2023
This game is one of the best I have ever played! Combining all elements from previous Souls games and adding a lush open-world environment, this game has literally 1,000s of hours of engaging fun without any microtransaction BS most games nowadays seem to throw out there. Please invest in this game! You will not be sorry! ;)
Impressive world and lore. Truly astounding and an epic to behold. Would love to replay it multiple times.
You only get it when you play it. When you force yourself to grow better and stronger
Not sure what the game wants me to do here and the story is nonexistent. Sadly this game is not for me.
This game is so awesome nothing come close to this masterpiece no season pass no extras monetization bs lots of content literally elden ring deserves every award period this should be the Norm in gaming I love this game I still play even after I platinum this masterpiece gaming industry should take notes
Should be named Elden Bo-ring, what a waste of money and time, no story, no clear objective, terrible gameplay. I think there was something dirty on picking this rubbish as game of the year, is like part of a masochism therapy. No fun at all, even Lego games are better on gameplay
Overrated game with so many performance issues and **** fact that people are acting like this is some perfect 10/10 game is either deluded or dumb.
Love it love it love it, I can't explain this, I just don't have the words. But I'll give it a go, the world is gorgeous, I have so much fun just exploring and killing stuff, before I knew it I'd platinumed the game. If you like killing pixels you'll love this.
This is the ultimate version of Dark Souls thanks to its vast and gigantic open world.
All i can say is this game is awesome from start to finish Elden Ring is an adventure i will not forget even 10 years in the future
Too hard for starters. Cannot even proceed without watching tutorials or play-throughs... Not a big fan of these soul games. Half a year later: This is a wonderful game.
Elden Ring is, without a shadow of a doubt, the best game I’ve played in LONG time. The last time I was this obsessed with a game was Breath of the Wild. Elden Ring has perfected the somewhat challenging aspect of an open world RPG. Many times the world can be huge but with very little to do throughout it. That is absolutely not the case here. Every single step of the way is filled with something. Wether it be an epic item, a new area with cool lore, or an insane boss battle, this game is PACKED with content. It took me about 85 hours to complete the game on my first run so yes, there is plenty to do. Another thing that some open world games have trouble with is story. They can focus so much on the gameplay ****, which isn’t bad, that they completely overlook making a good story to go with it. That is simply NOT the case with Elden Ring. While the story is in no way super obvious when you first play, just by playing it again or even watching a YouTube video, it’s easy to see how much story and lore is there. The base story is great but where it really hits home is the side stories. There are so many side quests each with their own story and lore. As you play through and see all these deep and emotional stories intertwine and unfold, it really changes your perspective on the entire game. Not to mention they’re just plain epic. Now the highlight of this game for is the bosses. With near countless bosses and dungeons/mini dungeons, you will constantly be saying “Oh my gosh what’s that?!” and “Holy cow this thing is awesome!!” as you fight through countless baddies. But of course what good are awesome bosses without a great way to fight them? That brings me to my next highlight, “PLAY STYLES!!” There are so many different ways to play this game. You can play as a simple swordsman who wants to restore peace to the Lands Between, a Sorcerer who seems to slay all evil, or even a Samurai bent on bringing world domination. By leveling up various attributes you can use specific weapons and creat the character of your dreams. With hundreds of swords, sorceries, and spells, skies the limit with what you can do. I for example just made a lighting based swordsman and it looks freaking epic. This also adds a TON of replay ability. You can start simple, using only swords and bows, and then on your next playthrough you can switch to magic. It will never get old. I’m conclusion, Elden Ring is a MASSIVE game that will keep you engaged for countless hours and captivate your heart in a matter of minutes. If you’ve never played a game from “Fromsoftwear” this is a great place to start. Is it hard? Absolutely. Does that also make you feel epic when you achieve something? Absolutely. And is this also the game of the year for a reason? Absolutely. The game encourages you to never give up and strive to be stronger. I HIGHLY recommend this game if you’ve never played it. And if you have, go play it again. It deserves it.
The best game I had played,I don't think I'll ever play a game this good again in my life
As close to perfect as a game has ever gotten If you haven't played this already what are you even **** your hands on it and get lost in its world.
9.8/10 this game is amazing absolute master piece. only really flaw i can think is the multiplayer i think the multiplayer could have been better but that's the only flaw i can think of. the combat is fun and there is a real feeling of progression and improvement in you start off weak and afraid but by the end you feel like a beast this game is a master piece.
GoW lost already, you can stop review bombing already. If you play games just to be going on rails listening the story that occasionally requires for you to press button, it's not a game for you. If you instead want tight controlling mechanically sound game, this is it. Its all about the actual GAMEplay.
this game is a master piece mechanics ,world, graphic everything is great and its one of the eseyiest soulslikes
The map is too big & there is no mini-map. Enemies are too strong and the game is unbalanced. The worldview is plain and unattractive, and there are many similar places.
avid souls fan, great game, however it is nowhere near the masterpiece everyone claims it is and i wish the inflated hype around it would just stop because i’d rather miyazaki just never try and slap his usual, linear formula of games onto a gigantic map again. it’s clear he sacrificed quality, all for the sake of creating a “bigger” game and it couldn’t be more obvious. and it’s just odd how for an open world rpg, there is literally nothing to do at all which is yet another flaw. the game is advertised as something it is not.
Insanely difficult with no real plot. I had never played soul-like games but will never do again. Waste of money and time. Can’t understand how it was rated so high by gaming sites.
Bad graphics as if we are living in 2008. Clunky combat system, even my grandma can roll over faster than this game's main character. How much money did they pay to the critic writers for 96 points? This game is just a zero, never waste any money
Even though I don’t like the souls genre in general, I can appreciate the awesome open world. I will never like these games though because all you do is fight enemies that are overpowered. I’m 40 years old and like Nintendo games better. If I was 20 something maybe I’d have more interest in killing overpowered enemies. Lol
Elden Ring is a culmination of years of exploring a genre defining series. The immersion and exploration are both top notch and I find myself lost in the world like some of my favorite open world games. The game is mechanically robust and executes on an interesting set of fights. World building is top notch and while FromSoft's storytelling is subtle, as usual, but I found it to be a step up from previous titles. The biggest thing is that Elden Ring feels like a game. It focuses on gameplay and wraps it into an interesting world with much to discover. It is challenging and I cannot recommend it more if you are a fan of Open World RPGs.
Bad story, bad gameplay, bad graphics, bad menu, Then, this game is trash !!! Why goty :O I dont understand !
I really really enjoyed this game it's hard as hell being my 2nd souls-like game, without youtube I wouldn't really know where exactly to go or how to finish the quest I started because this game doesn't hold your hand at all. I understand it encourages explanation but sometimes a little help on where to go would be helpful. I chose a scorer because I heard for beginners it is the smoothest build to choose. I enjoyed the bosses, the design, music and art style were fantastic and there were many moments in this game that left me in awe. However, there were some bosses that were ridiculously OP *cough* *cough* Malenia but they were still enjoyable to play and satisfying to beat once you get the hand of the mechanics. I don't want to spoil too much of the game but I strongly recommend you play this game if you enjoy a challenge and appreciate great art style, exploration and game mechanics.
Some of Fromsoftwares games I enjoy, whilst others I can take or leave it. Seeing some of the drivel people are writing is either because they haven't played it or it beat their favourite games to the awards. Who cares and get a grip. Looks like trash? Jaw dropping visuals as you exit from the tutorial. The world itself is so vast and scale is huge. Vertically and horizontally. The gameplay loop of GIT GOOD as some of the idiots put it, is fair and is incredibly satisfying when defeating a boss or tough enemy after a few goes. Reason I haven't scored it a perfect 10 is due to the screen tearing that often happens but it doesn't take me away from the experience and certainly runs fine apart from that. Superb game and if difficult games aren't your thing, don't be a **** head and just don't play it. Because you can't do it doesn't make it a crap game
Most overrated game of all-time. Janky combat, poorly balanced difficulty, and poor performance.
Elden Ring is a visually stunning game with smooth gameplay. The world is richly detailed and the character designs are impressive. The combat system is challenging and requires strategic thinking, and can be quite difficult at times. Overall, it's an enjoyable experience for those who are up for a challenge.
This game is awesome the feeling when you beat a strong boss or enemy, when just explore the beautiful world with so much to discover is great. the combat and the customisation is just wow!
Amazing game is amazing, It's sad to see such upset people, I dont think there gamers. Anyways it's a really awesome experience everything should play it. It won Game of the year after all!
This game is big it’s like Dark souls 1 2 and 3 combined I love this game but would I recommend this to a soulsbourne newcomer maybe this game is hard just like the other games I would recommend dark souls 3 to a newcomer but elden ring is actually a kinda good beginner souls game because it’s open world so you can move away from anything but dark souls 3 has an easier difficulty so both are great soulsbourne games for beginners depending on what you’re looking for
While beautifull and sometimes pleasant to play … difficulty takes tome to level up but that’s fine … BUT A game that force you to unplug your ps5 to avoid a auto save to fix mistake is obviously a fail! ER is technically failed by obvious stupid mechanics! Last play I killed a npc that i wanted to spare but the stupid saving system and the stupid leveling system made this i was too strong to be able to spare !!!!! After 200h of game play i cannot get the armor i targeted !! That’s a pure stupidity! First an last game i play from this idiot editor!
One of the best games I’ve ever played, definitely recommend anyone who enjoys playing Open-World and Soulsborne like.
played the game on release at PC that I grabbed the sale on PS5 aswell. easily the best game that came this generation. no BS just straight up gaming. my first souls game too
Not for everyone. Have to invest allot of time in the game to get any enjoyment. Definitely not for casual gamers. Cant say I know anyone that has actually finished it. So I am not sure why this is the game of the year.
A almost masterpiece Elden ring is truly a unique game in the soulsborn series and especially when you have most played western games as I have, so it was very refreshing to try something new and exciting and to use my brain instead of being held through the entire game. It has a great amount of verity from bosses, bioms og play styles, some of the best visuals I've seen despite not the "RTX ULTRA REALISTIC ATTENTION TO DETAL GRAPHICS NEVER BEFORE SEEN" most games go for That said, I would wish it was easier to figure the queslines out yourself instead of searching for a guide for each and every quest, but even with that inconvenience I still enjoyed them, most of them are memorable instead of the 1000 side quest thrown into open world games as most of them do to fill in the bland world, elden ring does the opposite
open world for souls is not working for me. world is very empty and repetitive. overall it's not a bad game and if you like souls games you can give it a shot.
Game of the year! The best game in the series, and the best open world RPG.
I was stunned by beauty of this game world. Game design is well built, go somewhere else if you cant move forward because of strong enemy, but it is not an option, if you good at game you can beat everyone
Legendary and an instant classic. One of the best games ever made. Will be played for years and years to come
Game of the Year winner, the entire gaming community has come together to celebrate it. I think this alone should put the review bombing to rest. It is a beautifully crafted game that provides hundreds of hours of gameplay. Its not easy, its cryptic, its story is light to non-existant - its a soulsborne game... This is not the RPG for you if you are looking for a deep story line with engrossing conversation, building relationships with npcs, etc. However, if you are looking for a deep challenge, the wonder of adventure/discovery, and fantastic mechanics this is a must play. I see so many reviews comparing this game to the likes of Skyrim and other RPGs, you cant think of it in that light. It more closely resembles an arcade game on steroids.
Best game of all time and accolades prove it as the most awarded game in the history of gaming. Great gameplay, amazing combat, amazing boss fights, super great art direction & game is massive with lots of content.
Probably one of the worst games I've ever played. The graphics are outdated, the story (if any) is lacking, the mechanics and animations are clunky, the open world feels deserted and the enemies placed in them are random and placed randomly, voice acting is bad... The difficulty of beating the random assortment of enemies is the only reason one could have to play this game. Take that away and it looks like a low-budget generic game that you'd grab for a few dollars at a massive discount from your local store "because why not", only to still be disappointed.
GOW RAGNARÖK İS BETTER MUST HAVE GRAPHİCS MUST HAVE GAMEPLAY MUST HAVE A CHARACTER DİOLOGE
Great game over all and definitely deserves game of the year. The combat system is fun and engaging and even has a built in "easy mode" for those who are less skilled at this form of combat. The only reason I do not give this game a 10/10 is because I believe that they reused some of the side bosses a tad too much. Adding 2 if the same boss in late game should hardly count as a "new encounter" other than this one issue this game is a near masterpiece and leaves me exited to see what FS does in the future.
Easily, and I mean EASILY, the most overrated game of all time with the most rabid and toxic fanbase. It's so badly designed. Zero quest log or map markers, ZERO idea of what to even do because every quest is insane cryptic nonsense, bugs and graphical issues galore, huge yet quite empty open world, generic progression, reskinned/copy pasted bosses everywhere, copy/pasted dungeons, how on Earth anyone thinks this is better than any Souls game or that it's even close to something like BotW is beyond me. Don't waste your time.
Probably the best open world I've ever played. The landscape is gorgeous. The gameplay is fair and the story interesting. To understand the whole lore you have to read a lot but this ain't to bad. Congrats to GOTY.
Elden Ring is one of the best game ever made. But there is a but! It's not for everyone. It's not an easy game and many will hit the difficulty like a brick wall with a semi trailer at 250 km/h. After 100+ hous in the game, I can safely say that it's a 10/10 when compared to Dark Souls 1, 2 and 3. Ofc it's not what a casual andy would expect, since it's a New take on the fantasy world of fromsoft, but with a much higher leatning curvy and a wastly bigger world to explore. Alot of the bad review here are people Who do not blir long in this world. Tbf they should go back to FIFA, call of duty and destiny :)
thought it was great! loved exploring this game more than any other fromsoft game they really nailed the discovery in this game. after multiple plays i can tell i haven't seen all the secrets because the game is just so massive. the bosses are good, though a lot of them kind of forgettable, there are a few really top tier bosses that are super fun to fight. the pvp is now even better after dlc and co op with friends is great fun. so many builds i want to try still. the music (some of the boss music specifically) and graphics and cut-scenes were all top notch. the story is a little confusing and even after hours of digging and reading item descriptions its still not 100% clear. fromsoft this was great and i definitely want story dlc but PLEASE! work on new bloodborne or sekiro content before coming back to elden ring 2.
This is the best video game ever made. Nothing else to say other than you need to play it if you like video games.
My first soulslike game andvone my new favorite games ever Exploring in this game is really fun
For a start, a large swathe of players bought on Asia thinking it's in English but then it's only in Chinese and you find out after downloading it on PSN and so you are stuck unable to play or refund the game... so yeah. Known for almost a year and continue to scam people with the same gig.
No english language for Elden Ring in Asia zone .
This **** doesn't have English version in Asia I don't speak Chinese Update English version please
Another bag of flaming dog-sh**, press circle to win "masterpiece" from the worst thing to ever happen to action games: Hidetaka Miyazaki. This crap was an interesting oddity in 2011. Its just dated and pathetic in current year. Another game praised by the D-riding fanboys for being "AmAzInG!" as they play for 30 minutes, rage quit, uninstall and leave a 10/10 on Metacritic. Hows that 10-20% completion rate for your games feel Miyazaki? Lol enjoy it while it lasts d-bag. How this won Game Of The Year, I'll never understand. I can't write a spoiler review because, as far as I can tell there is no story to spoil. Played nearly 80 hrs before giving up because nothing makes sense. You just run around and fight random overpowered enemies without any context. You can't level up until you randomly get to a certain campfire and some girl spouts some nonsense dialogue and then you... wander out to kill more enemies. Ooops you got hit more than ONCE by a open world trash mob enemy so "YOU DIED" even though you're lvl 100 lmao. MaStErPiEcE! Wolves appear out of a whirlwind for... reasons. ??? Most of the bosses are easier to fight (literally beat around 10 of them on the first attempt) than the random trash mobs of the open world. If that doesn't scream untalented, garbage game design idk what does. You'd be hard pressed to notice a difference between Dark Souls and Elden Ring apart from a bland, empty open world; the combat is exactly the same. Same animations, same lock on system, same "health vials", same slow clunky "combat", same grind grind grind from 2011. Melee skills are pointless, block only SOMETIMES blocks and only certain shields can parry (with the worlds shortest timing window). You get maybe 2 attacks per weapon (Light and heavy, MaStErPieCe!) The lock on mechanic takes a full second to respond the players input. Combat: Lure enemy out because anything other than 1 v 1 likely means death. Roll>slash>roll>slashx3>block>roll roll roll. Watching paint dry is more exciting. There's nothing substantial here. You still can't engage multiple enemies, you just have to shuffle around, hitting them one at a time with the same TWO moves. Yawn. Combat is painfully slow and cumbersome. Even over-leveling by 20 levels, you can still be staggered by the same low level enemies, in the same amount of strikes. It doesn't make sense. Even in Dark Souls 1-3 and Demon Souls there was a feeling of progression as you went. Not here. I'm sure its something to make the game even more artificially difficult. Bosses are OP (that first one on horseback is hilariously difficult) and don't have stamina to deplete or cooldowns on their combos (they get combos, but not you lol). There are no mechanics to speak of and there's really no point to melee "skills", blocking or tactics as all fights, large and small, degrade to fighting them over and over, rolling around like an **** until their patterns are muscle memory. Its beyond tedious. I guess if nobody played my games to completion but still bought and over-praised them, I'd keep making abominable garbage too. You can either look up a YouTube tutorial on how to properly level up or just wander aimlessly and hope you eventually find the characters that can give you an edge. There's nothing in the game to even hint at where they might be or what you should do next. Just wander aimlessly and grind, one measly skill point at a time. I don't get the love for modern FromSoftware games. Sekiro and Elden ring are awful, slow, boring games with no story or direction, garbage combat and barely 10 or 20% completion rates (ie no one like this sh**). I finished Dark Souls and Demon Souls, enjoyed them. This modern FromSoft is horrible, they're just milking a decade old broken engine and formula. If you like artificially "hard" (ie old, broken/garbage/poorly made) games or just really enjoy 2011 Dark Souls "combat": this is your game. If you like innovative, modern and polished games with tight, fast paced combat and a story to drive the experience: This game is not for you. I gave Sekiro a chance, I tried Elden ring against my better judgement. I'm done with modern FromSoft. These are AWFUL games. I want my money back. I'd rate -100 if I could. Miyazaki is literally the worst thing to happen to gaming, EVER.
This game has two flaws: Firstly, graphics are not the greatest for a PS5 game (yes, I expect better graphics for this generation, sorry). Secondly, and feel free to disagree, I think that you're punished too hard when missing a dialogue or simply not paying good attention to one. You end up missing an entire line of quests or simply getting lost. A simple log dialogue would suffice. I played offline and liked the immersion, so, looking up to revisit something that needed to be done was a little upsetting. And, if you let me worry about the little things a little further... Comparing in-store items with equiped ones should be a basic feature that is completely missed in the game. Had to take pictures all the time. That's all. The game is amazing. Got 140h into it and felt sad to finish it haha.
Wasn’t sure if the game would live up to the hype but I’m well into the game (level 60) and I’m loving it.
Pretty boring Characters lacks of movements , just roll for dodge lightyear fast bosses No rewards for kill those high difficult enemies No story If you understand stats you got a point to continue playing Not recommend this for people
This is really a good game all together Pros: Really Good Graphics Good Story Really Hard But Good Cool Stuff Cons Can be very laggy Very Hard If You're Not That Good Strange Bugs All together It's a 9 for me!
This game is quite good till near the end where the bosses become over-tuned and a chore.
After buying this well-known and apparently great game – I mean, all of those awards – The question that keeps popping in my mind is: “How could I fall for this marketing scam?” It’s even sad, really. I tried to play for 1 hour but it felt awful from the very first minute. The outdated graphics makes you feel like throwing up and feeling like it's 2001 once again. The storytelling is pointless – Is there any story at all!? Can someone explain this to me!? – and the gameplay it’s not that big of a deal, let's face it. After spending a considerable amount of money (with discount, even!) with this “Marketing Scam” as I am calling it now, I am going to pay more attention to what the general audience is saying about a game, other than just look at the awards shows. That's it. Don't make the same mistake that I did.
I wanted to love this game so much but once I reached the endgame I couldn't bring myself to play it any longer. while there are many things I love about the game I had become so bored of the repetitive bosses and enemies that I couldn't enjoy the game any longer. I was not under leveled nor did I have a crap build I just could not play it any longer I wished i loved the game but truthfully I can not even play it the bosses became so bad and just borderline unfair that even after taking breaks i could no longer progress. I am not just hating on the game and if you enjoyed it im glad but this game for me is unplayable and insanely boring.
best rpg open world game Any rpg game that wants to be better than this has a hard work ahead of it
Pleeeeeeeeeeaaaaaaaaase! Miyazaki! Next time give us an easy mode. Or at least just don’t weaken the strong weapons and skills by updates.
Amazing game which can be played for hundreds of hours. Would hands-down recommend it to anyone.
Genuinely one of the most memorable gaming experiences of my life. The environmental storytelling, combined with the atmospheric world building and refined combat system just makes ma want to erase my brain and discover all of its facets all over again. The epic bosses are the icing on the cake. Mechanically challenging and accompanied by one of the best soundtracks I've ever heard in gaming. Not all of them live up to the standards of the better ones, but still have something unique going for them. Even if it's just a new combination of already learned mechanics. I never finished a souls game before and I liked this one so much, that I'm almost through Dark Souls 3 already and about to buy the Demon's Souls Remaster. 10/10 – we need more games like this, and less of uninspired, soulless (pun intended) products such as Call of Duty, Fifa or anything Ubisoft.
Elden Ring stands as the culmination of everything I loved about the team at Fromsoft, polished to near perfection. A complaint that frequents most FromSoft games comes from how cryptic they deliver their narrative; it's the same with this title. Despite this, the story is still engaging, and you will be stepping into one of the most exciting and rewarding video game experiences that I can recount. Elden Ring provides more than just spectacle and emphasizes the importance of discovery. Everyone who plays the game has their own unique experience and essentially creates their own personal adventure. Of course, you can't mention a FromSoft game without mentioning the Bosses. FromSoft has crafted some of its toughest challenges (despite some re-skins). "Easily imitated, never recreated," no one can ever replicate the sense of accomplishment that defeating the boss has with the soul's games. If you feel discouraged by the difficulty or never touched a FromSoft game in your life, I urge you to take the plunge. FromSoft has created its most approachable experience to date. In the discussion of difficulty, try it out. You're meant to die a lot. With each death, you learn more; you know what moves to dodge and how to dodge them, and you learn the openings and find a rhythm for each attack; on each attempt, you get closer and closer until you find yourself getting half their health down without getting hit yourself. Then if you ever return to that boss, all the information and skills you've developed through experience come back essentially making fights easier. Elden Ring is once in a generation and genre-defining moment in gaming. The culmination of all FromSoft has created prior (shortcomings and issues in all) all wound together in a tightly constructed package that everyone should at least try.
Game is slow and boring asl. It's a niche game for a niche market. ONLY enjoyable for people that enjoy games that are unnecessarily extremely difficult. Trash game otherwise
The lack of good narrative and bad performance on the Ps5 are the only complaints i have. Other than that Elden ring is Amazing!
I seriously cannot believe this! I’m a foreigner living in Thailand and I can’t play Elder Rings in English? Are you kidding me? In my 30+ years of gaming and hundreds of games played I’ve never ran into this issue. How absurd is this? And it’s not like the English version doesn’t exists because it does, but we’re just locked out from it! Outrageous! What kind of non sense is this?
Shallow combat favoring mechanic abuse over fluidity, what story...have fun jumping with a horse. It's not a problem that we don't have a quest log, the problem is that there is no clear indicator of what is a quest what is gibberish and overall not a single quest leads to an outcome, just kill stuff fam.
The experience of Elden Ring was not repeated for me, and this is probably because I have not played other games from From Software, but Elden Ring was the second best game for me this year, and I can say this with confidence.
A game that we will be studying to the end of time. We will be studying the open world, art, bosses, weapons, and story. in a time where most AAA games are full of microtransactions, and lazy development it is truly astounding hat we got this game. Not only is this the best installment form FromSoftware, but Elden Ring has along with many other games this year ahs revived my hope for future titles.
It's a very delayed review because my monitor broke, but I see that fanboys and those who write reviews with money have raised this fiasco game to the level of unrivaled. Anyway, let's move on to our real unbiased review. Let's start with the mechanics as always, there is no innovation in mechanics, standard soul games, jumping is added and has almost no effect on the game. Open world was added to the game, but mechanically is there such a thing, the answer is no. The game is very big, there are incredibly many castles and dungeons you can visit, but they are all flat and empty inside. Let's start with the castles, when you start the game, you look around and see the incredible map and you start exploring, traveling and wandering around in castles that last a maximum of half an hour, yes, you did not hear wrong, the time you spend in castles is half an hour, including Lyndell! All of those incredibly designed castles are just images, empty castles with no design inside, filled with creatures and left. When I look at the old souls games, designs like DS 1 Anor Londo, DS 2 Drangleic castle are bigger and more detailed than all the castles in the Elden ring game combined. Ds 2 had this success despite being a half-open world, Elden ring is a huge empty world full of creatures. The only good thing about it is that it looks great artistically. I have explained the chapter and map designs together with the mechanics. Now let's look at the small innovations and whether they have an effect on the game. Let's start with the mount, we have a horse-like mount in the game, this mount allows us to travel around the whole world, we can do combat and boss fights in some places and it has no mechanical effect on the game. The things we do with the mount are very limited, don't expect something like Zelda or Shadow of the colossus. When I say Shadow of the colossus, they said that they were inspired by Shadow of the colossus before the game came out, there is nothing about it in the game. Since jumping was added, the platform was expected, which it should have been, but they didn't put it, the jumping mechanics look ridiculous even next to the games 30 years ago. Let's talk about dungeons, there are dungeon designs that are so terrible that they compete with Skyrim. You enter hundreds of dungeons throughout the game and except for a few, they are all similar designs. We have come to the end of our review and unfortunately Elden ring is not a good game at all. The same mechanics, open world game mechanics and design are not reflected in the game, nothing good except for the improved spells. Elden ring is the biggest fiasco of this year. 57/100 if we come to the score
The best of the best,combat,story,atmosphere,the places,the characters everything about it ia beatifull
While the game has an excellent combat system with a wide array of flexibility. The games lack of quest tracking system is not clever or original, but an annoying inconvenience that will force almost every single player to Google aspects of the game as they go through. Perhaps this is deliberate to maintain the relevance of the game with online content and searches. The most frustrating part of the game is that quest lines are driven with vague minimal character dialogue that doesn't actually drive a story. This makes quest lines easily missable, and there's content and loot items that can be locked from the player if you make the wrong choice. As far as a game design goes, combat and difficulty, this is an excellent game, as far as large scale epic RPG is concerned, there's absolutely no story here, nothing to get connected to, nothing to be immersed in. It's a game that seems to have missed one of the most important aspects of game design.
Boring, spent 20 hours into the game all I felt is Ike I'm working. Story is weak & conversations are 0. Even your enemies it's like they are muted. Overrated simply
My first Soulsborne game and completely enchanted into the beautiful open world. The deep Souls combat mechanics, almost-free exploration and artistic designed environments/settings. And to top all of them, the bosses, Radahn and Malenia fight is just unforgettable.
Great game with a gorgeous world, awesome bosses and an amazing sense of freedom and exploration without getting dull. I wish I could award it with a 10 however I feel the combat in this game is a step down from Dark Souls. Deaths do not feel fair, rather than being defeated by bosses you are being oneshot. That is not how you execute good combat.
Fantastic game, love everything about, the visuals, the soundtrack, the gameplay. More FROM please!
Overrated. It's just like all other sauls with some improvments but the se don't justify the hype and the aspectations.
I tried! I tried my best liking this game but it’s not for me. It’s dull and the graphics are bad for 2022. Also it’s god damn difficult. A mere bat or small ogre can kill you. Game save are bad if u die u start all over. The combat is repetitive and weak. It’s a game I don’t need to be crazy precise to land a hit it’s so lame…end of the day it’s a game, if after a long day I want to sit back relax and hit some enemies I can’t do it here. Not for **** GOTY definitely not deserving.
Elden Ring is the ideal RPG I thought I would never have the honor to play until now with the world and many opportunities you can take advantage of, 11/10 in short Elden Ring definitely deserves the award for GOTY (Game of the Year)
Great game. One of the best i've played! Can't wait for Dlc it's going to be really fun!
This game is everything wrong with modern gaming. The fact that this game won GOTY when its story and characters are so non-existent that they could've been written on a napkin over a 30 minute lunch. The fact that half the content in the game is just copy-pasted or reskinned and recolored content. The fact that it doesn't even tap into the potential of next-gen consoles and is an outdated mess from a technical point of view. Then people wonder why the modern state of gaming seems like a such a joke and why people are so obsessed with remakes and remasters of actual classics. Keep celebrating and paying for crap and that's all you're going to get.
The most overrated garbage. What’s good about this game? The clunky garbage combat with ps2 animations? I hope this trend with this kinda Soulsborne garbage ends cause they’re so damn overrated without a reason.
Fantastic game. One of the best i've played. Has everything you want, an amazing openworld, monsters to fight!
Very overrated given the fact that the game feels like a demon souls remake with non-existing storytelling and repetitive gameplay. Developers need to make changes so that not all of their games feel the same with the exception of Sekiro, that was a true one of a kind masterpiece.
One of the best games ever made. I love this game and everyone should try this game.
The best game of all time, amazing graphics fun and intuitive combat and extremely entertaining combat
This game is skyrim for a new generation, it deserves all the praise it has gotten so far.
This game is AMZING. One of the best games of all time. These people are insane who are lowing the review score. Screw them
For me this game is a straight 10 out of 10. The gameplay loop is epic, the world is grand and worth exploring. This was quite literally the only game I played for 6 months straight. It hooked me and I couldn't go to anything else even though there were several other games I was excited for. I don't typically invest the time to platinum a game but I platinumed this game. Best game of 2022 hands down!!
This is my first-ish (tried DS III, but failed shortly within 90 minutes and gave up) FromSoftware game. I love how you can explore 60% of the map without progressing to the first story boss. That way you can get overpowered and find items and explore from the beginning. Absolutely epic game with epic boss fights and gameplay. The lore is pretty interesting as well. Just wish the plot/story was more concrete and cohesive. The music definitely fit the theme of the game's challenges and overall ambience. This is definitely my most proud platinum trophy out of my entire collection due to the sheer difficulty of the hard-hitting bosses and timings you have to know.
One of the best games ever made , great world to explore, high replayability, expansive character creation, the best world design and game direction . The game give a lot of freedom to the player in terms of work exploration and how you upgrade your character. Must play for all gamers, also has really good multiplayer co-op and pvp , the devs also keep updating and improving the game based on player feedback and their own finding 10/10 must play.
One of the best games I ever played, just took the soulslike formula to an open world masterpiece. A lot of hidden places, bosses, features and amazing areas is the strongest point in my opinion. Definetly a must play game for everyone.
Really bad game. It was super boring. Definitely too many cutscenes and honestly I wish it were more challenging
One of the best games I have ever played in my life. A beautiful experience everyone could enjoy, if they simply give it a proper try.
0 story. Just another rinse repeat soulsborne. Would rather play donkeykong 64
The game is a masterpiece and deserves GOTY. From software consistently pushes out great games.
Undoubtedly, we all know that Elden Ring exceeded the expectations of both Souls fans and players Of course, the game has improved despite the strong art director and formula. It also includes weaknesses such as poor technical graphics along with excellent visual graphics But overall Elden Ring is a fascinating work that has been able to go beyond expectations
Dark souls 3 with Martin as marketing trick. Graphics bad, mechanics from ds2 Bugs and weird reuse of same mobs but with different appearance. Boring and totally overrated. Worst purchase of the year. Such disappointment after sekiro…
I feel this game is massively overrated. It looks like a 2012-2013 game in terms of graphics and world design. The world is big, but not as live and open as you thought should be. Lot of linear caves, and areas only accessible by 1 path, and sadly, that goes in favor of the game overall. Certainly this game is a huge improvement over the Souls formula, but when compared outside the Souls franchise with other action-RPG-souls-like games at best its mediocre. Only recomended if you like the Souls formula, because it's the only thing it can offer.
The game is far from the best title. Very overrated. Graphics and gameplay are average at best. Look at GoWR.
Loved this game, was sad to complete it. Played it three times too. Hope there is a DLC or sequel
Overrated to bits the game is medicore at best didn't enjoy it for a single minute
Elden ring is a love letter to Fromsoft and souls fans. It's combat is addicting. Vast amount of choice to play how you want with tons of weapons, spells and items. While new players may struggle to get to grips with the difficulty. They do offer so many things to aid you if you are stuck. Even leveling up you start to feel like you can handle something you couldnt even better. Overall I'm… Expand
Terrible. No story, no voice acting, just cheap mechanics for edgy players.
Having played Bloodborne and Sekiro before Elden Ring, I can safely say it is the most accessible entry of the FromSoft catalogue while also maintaining the wonder and awe of its predecessors. This alone makes it a top-tier game in my eyes. The combat is as engaging as ever, and the open world is rightly compared to Breath of the Wild's in that it conjures similar feelings of mystique and curiosity in the player. Elden ring is a towering achievement for video games -- both as an art form and as a piece of entertainment.
This game is fire when I turn the TV off
Game is trash, God of War Ragnarök should have won game of the year. Elden Ring is a complete garbage game made for soyboys who like "deep" lore (the lore is shallow as hell) and is a complete pushover.
I thought this would be the From Software game that I actually enjoyed, but it plays like a game that came out in the PS3 generation and the story feels incomplete. It gets over-hyped by the developers cult following.
I don't know how a game with only combats wherever, can be a great game, all it's hard, really, it's a masoquist game, the great idea it's the difficulty and that's all
This game is nothing but hard fights. Where's the story? Where's the substance?
I don't get it. I've started multiple times and just can't seem to get into this game.. The graphics are detailed to the point of looking muddy to me. The whole experience was just confusing and uninteresting. I don't understand the hype.
A very very very very very very bad game in 2022 !! graphic . story . gameplay
This game is an absolute masterpiece. A breath of fresh air for me, a total departure from the many other open world games I have played in the best way possible. I absolutely love the combat, the world, the total ludicrous insanity of the enemies and bosses. Love the creativity. I have never had this much fun building a character that is completely my own, and I am looking forward to making more characters. I enjoyed that they made quests and objectives harder to follow than a normal open world game but the balance was too much on the hard side. It’s too difficult to follow quest lines and know where to talk to NPCs or what you should be doing next. The story is quite vague and hard to follow, jumping in and out over extended periods is virtually impossible, not so much as quest log. Given you are locked out of certain items if you progress too far without doing a quest, they should be easier to find and follow. I also felt a bit less engaged with the narrative than I felt I could be if I really grasped the story as I was playing. At times combat can be very annoying when you get stuck up against a wall or even clip through some larger enemies you can’t move away from. In such a punishing game where every hit counts, it can be very frustrating. Performance issues are still not fixed on PS5, the game cannot run at 60FPS. Given it’s not exactly a very advanced game graphically, it’s baffling this can’t keep a consistent 60FPS. I love the world and art style but the visual fidelity is just not at the standard of other next gen titles. An excellent game, certainly very different and breaks the traditional mould for open world games but the balance is not right for me. A fantastic game that has potential to shift how other devs look at open world games which is great, but I can’t give this a 10/10 when there are clearly issues in multiple areas. But it comes close to a perfect 10, what an incredible game, I have 100 hours at the time of writing and anticipate a few hundred more.
great game one of the best i have played not on my top 3 but its up there with god of war ragnarok
Very derivative with questionable enemy design where difficulty is achieved via bad design as opposed to organically occurring. Graphically mediocre. Lackluster narrative delivery as usual. Nothing worthy here, I’d just replay ds3.
Boring Game, only a little group of people can play this game. Other souls more better than this new souls. Many boss repetitive and the only good thing is the map.
The second best game of 2022 And certainly the first is the master of games God of War
Easiest souls game with a lackluster story and ps4 graphics despite being not only AAA and taking years to develop
Couldn't take to it, games are meant to be fun. I don't want to have to use paper and pen to keep track of what I'm doing - that's work not game. Hit, roll, hit, roll repeat and repeat. Avoid if you have liked any from software games before, Elden ring won't win you over
So, Elden Ring, GOTY? No, but a great game nonetheless. FromSoftware is a great developer but their gameplay and narrative is getting tiring, and the lengthy campaign has left me fatigued after just platinuming it. It's left me with no desire to play again and even if it does release DLC with more story content, it's going to feel like an absolute chore to start a new build to check it out. Please FromSoftware, break your formula and try something entirely new.
Amazing. this game is just the best world open expirience in the game's history
To be honest I’m not a fan of this game! I found it boring and the graphics are not that great!
Just a really weird game. Made no sense. Do not recommend. Really thought George Martin could do better than this.
Masterpiece in evry word this game is the reason why we love gaming truly a remarkable achievement
I dont Understand Why All these Reviews In elden ring Describing How theres "No Story or Lack There of" You need to Play the game to Enjoy the story, Reading Item Descriptions And Killing bosses And watching cutscenes, Im not Saying you have to De-vote Your entire Life to this game. Its a Good game admittedly And it's okay To Ask for help from other players. There is a Reason this game Has Co-op Theres a Reason it Has Difficult Gameplay and No Questlogs Or difficulty Options, Because that is its identity. If you Remove The difficulty Of dark souls and add An easy mode, Or add A questlog And Constant dialogue, You ruin this game. Its okay to not enjoy Elden ring But it's not okay when You start Critiquing Parts of games when You dont understand why its there. What do you get when you Allow Players to Get the game less difficult, You get a shallow experience. What was Skyrim? A shallow RPG with Good adventure Mechanics, That was skyrim. It was a Bad RPG good Open world Game While you may look At it as a Good rpg Skyrim is not, Its a good one if you enjoy more laid back Casual esc Games like Call of duty. This game was made for a more Niche Audience.Anyways enough of my rant and here's the rest of the review Elden ring's story Isnt The greatest but it's not the Worst. The reason you have to comb through the entire Game to learn the story is because Its not meant to be laid put to you on a Silver platter. You're meant to Kill bosses and Venture into dungeons. Its all there for a reason. These aspects are meant to be used to their fullest extent. The story is meant to be Interpreted by You. You can make up whatever you want. Its your Choice because 1. You bought the thing 2. The game's story isnt fully laid out to you so you have to fill in the holes with what you think of. Overall 9/10, Not the second coming Of Christ but it was good. Certainly deserves GOTY
An amazing game to play with friends. Though the game has no real storytelling to offer, the gameplay and world makes up for it.
This game is realy disappointed me The graphic in this game is awful and realy bad
The graphics are mid and look like hell, There is so story so you just go around fighting bosses and have to grind for hours to get gear that wont make you get 1 hit by a boss.
Definitely deserving of the crown. It's going to be difficult for FromSoft to top this one.
This game is disappoint me really bad The graphics in the game is awful and the story
This game is realy disappointed me The graphic in the game is worst And the gameplay is just like your playing dark souls!!
This is one one the worst game i ever played in my life The graphic in the game looks ****
Elden Ring is developed by From Software and published by Bandai Namco Games
Pretty good game, so if I have any thing to complain that they could have add more bossess.
After playing a few of the Dark Souls games (1&3) Elden Ring is what I thought it'd be... Dark Souls but open world. Although while it is massive and explorative I honestly prefer the more linear maps of Dark Souls but all in all it's a game for us Gamers, Nerds, Geeks, & Weebs alike so I'm definitely coming back to this game
tl,dr: Elden Ring is a masterpiece with some flaws. However, you are not guaranteed to like it, since Fromsoft sticks to their formula regarding graphics, multiplayer and most important of all difficulty. First, the reason why most review sites (rightfully) acclaim this game: It does not tell you what to do. There is a tutorial of course, but after that you are free to explore the huge open world with only a loose suggestion where to go. This game does NOT bombard you with markers on the map or characters who spoon-feed you the story and solutions for your in-game problems. And this is what really is the selling point of this game: When you find something interesting, when you beat an enemy or when you connect lore pieces to a coherent story, it is all your doing and gratification comes with it. And there are many interesting things to find from loot, bosses to npcs and side quests. Some bosses are a bit repetitive, but since the scope of this game is larger than anything they did until today, it is excusable. Regarding the difficulty: This game is a Soulslike. That means you will die a lot and most bosses and even enemies will impose a challenge for players unfamiliar with the genre. If that is not of your liking, look elsewhere. A changeable difficulty setting, or an overall easier game will not happen, should not happen if you ask the Fromsoft fanbase and is comparable to asking for guns in FIFA or a PEGI 3 rating for GTA. Therefore, every soulsborne fan is probably satisfied with the challenge Elden Ring poses. Nonetheless, there are plenty of mechanics to get help from: spirit ashes which will attract boss attention or other players who can help in multiplayers. The most difficult bosses are also optional. Even players new to the genre should give it a try. For a game with great difficulty, it is of utmost importance that the internal mechanic is good enough that you are actually fighting the bosses and not the controls. And the game mechanics guarantee just that. Controls are understandable, animations smooth and you have plenty of possibilities to adapt the fighting to your personal style and even be able to change your stats and weapons mid-game. The wide range of weapons, spells, and talismans are interesting and allow several approaches to tackle an enemy. The lore is fascinating, and you should definitely read item descriptions and listen to npcs to understand what is going on. Their stories are often catching, and the underlying (interpretable) bigger picture is worth the effort. Personally, I think other Fromsoft games have a better underlying lore where they tackle more interesting questions, although none of them has a lore so rich. Elden Ring is more defined by the relations of the fractions and gods among themselves than the question of humanities place in the world. The graphics are not AAA standard compared to games like God of War, Horizon or even the Demon’s Souls remake. Do not get me wrong, the design of Elden Ring is great and connects very well to the overall lore/story. So well, that you can hunt for details in boss design and likely be able to learn something from it. But the technical aspects are an average B-. Clipping errors, loading of objects and washed-out textures are common. As I mentioned, this isn’t a surprise, and the game is definitely an improvement compared to Dark Souls, but it is something they should work on. There focus is clearly on game mechanics and design. I do think this game is beautiful, but in 2022 more is possible. At last, the multiplayer is fun for cooperation and invasion of players. But the whole mechanic is still tedious to understand and to execute, since areas are often randomly defined as a section which you can’t leave while in coop or invasion. Sometimes this is necessary, sometimes it is just annoying. But still Elden Ring does it way better than Bloodborne. Summary: Elden Ring has everything a soulslike fan could want, but still suffers from similar problems other Fromsoft titles did. However, the vast open world, interesting lore, challenging bosses with intelligent design and the thrill of exploration outweigh all the quirks by a great margin. GOTY incoming, 10/10 Fromsoft game.
Great game, I can't wait to jump back in especially if there's gonna be a dlc too!
There were so many awe moments. The exploration is huge and it's like I'm writing my own story. The combat has so many ways to tackle all the enemies. Weapons, summons, Co op and character creation have vast options. The game is so much fun, the story is top tier cuz I'm also crafting it as I progress and get stronger. The freedom to do what you want and how to do things is a great feeling. The epic boss battles, surprises at every corner and the difficulty of every challenge and when you clear it. It feels so rewarding. Elden ring is amazing! I cleared it after 200 hrs. It is very long for those that want to do everything but it is up to the player how long they want to take to finish the game and of you don't. Then that's where it ends. You die and become a tarnished that failed. Like the npc that went hollow in dark souls. They became a hollow and gave in to it, roaming the land in a madness state. So in a way. That was your story. You failed to become elden lord.
Created an account just to review this amazing game. Hard to pick up and even harder to put down. Can be a lot overwhelming at first but just took it one step at a time and now both progress and enjoyment are high. Of course a guide on the side never hurt anyone. Just play at your own pace and path.
Perfect world, perfect combat, perfect gear, perfect story, perfect soundtrack, perfect difficulty, perfect everything.
"Potential realized but with some recycling." World: Elden Ring takes book straight out of The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild with a very content rich open world that rewards players for exploring every nook and cranny the environments have to offer. I rarely found a section of the world that did not have some sort of secret or item within it's vicinity. Every scale and section have been crafted to encourage the players curiosity. Combat Everything you can expect from the souls formula and more! There are so many weapons, items, armor, consumables, summons, magic, enchantments that contribute to an almost endless level of combat customization that it at times can be overwhelming. However, the game is still as rewarding even with a simple sword and shield combo. Punishing yet rewarding is still present in the combat system. Story Just like every bother souls game, uncovering the mystery about the world you are dropped into and learning more about the inhabitants are still a strong staple in this game. You are going to still have to work hard to learn more about the lore and history of Elden Ring so be prepared. Recycling Almost every aspect of the game is perfect however, due to the size and scale of the game Fromsoft clearly had to reuse a lot of the same sub-bosses/bosses for many of the open world encounters. This is no fault by them but by the end of the game I found myself getting tired of seeing the same floating cat boss over and over again. In closing, Elden Ring makes a great lol "Beginner Friendly" entry to those looking into to finally making the leap into a souls like game. The difficulty is still very much as punishing as expected from a souls game however, the addition of spectral summons and the massive amount of weapons and magic you can learn provide ways for players to help level the field just a tiny bit.
I fell for the hype but honestly.. the exploration of the world is fun but models look samey very quickly and character customisation in terms of the way you look is not expansive so I felt like an npc very quickly. As I popped in casually I found the game to difficult to find rewarding and winning didn’t really feel rewarding as It was just a dmg spam fest or luck. Oh and the multiplayer is frustrating as hell, Why can you not just invite someone?
Another Demons Souls game.Average Game with a lot of glitches. FromSoftware is good but not that good
Elden ring is a fantastic well written, well designed game that deserves a goty. The game is challenging which is great, hard and smart ai in a good way and combat/gameplay is fluent and well responsive The story telling is unique and requires you to read and not be lazy and of course overall this isn't the type of game that holds your hand and spoonfeeds you like a baby which i think is great and much needed in more games
Absolute perfection- this is a souls borne game so if you’re not familiar with the difficulty and gameplay watch videos as these kinds of games aren’t for everyone, however, Elden Ring is the closest to a game for everyone that From Soft gas have gotten. Beautiful graphics and storyline full of nuanced lore. I’ve put in hundreds of hours and still plan to keep playing; making new character builds, experimenting with new weapons and ashes of war, etc….
Dark Souls but better due to the brilliant open world, which is huge! and with lots of difficult stuff to find! I love that like other souls-like games its hard and there ISN'T a bunch of difficulty levels to choose from. Too many whiners complaining that games like these are too difficult - I personally don't want a game I can whizz through in a couple of days if I've paid a lot of money for it! The only negatives are bosses and dungeons could have had more variety. Overall 9 out 10
I think it is a very good game but apperently it is not for everyones preferences because of its desing choises. Its biggest flaw is that the game is so perfectly unbalanced in scale of combat you can clearly see this is a designing choise. This is a modern game with 90s NES game difficulty. On the other hand, the best thing about this game is that it brings different perspective to open world design which makes you feel completelty free to do anything in an incredible fantasy world. So I say this game is all about gamer preferences and nothing about critics and reviews.
This game's greatness cant be denied. 50-80 hours of quality content is extremely hard and to deliver and I cant express how grateful I am to have a AAA studio like FromSoftware who have a vision and pursue it no matter the cost. That being said I feel like the game has some obvious issues that hinder it from receiving the perfect score, like the bosses being a bit underwhelming or the balancing of the weapons being pretty bad to the point where you either have to give in and use a summon or play with the meta weapons which is so unlike the other fromsoft games. I currently have gowr as game of the year but I wont be mad one bit of elden ring takes it.
Masterpiece. You must experience it for yourself. If you’re lost don’t hesitate looking online for tips especially at the beginning.
Elden ring was my first souls-borne game and dude, I was frustrated at first. But the more I played, the more I understood the mechanics and the fascination of it. after 66 hours I finished this amazing ride. big props to the developers for developing such a masterpiece!
A completely spectacular and innovative game. I had never played any Souls-Like, this was my first and although the first few hours were confusing for me, then I already felt the progression in my blood! the feeling of riding a horse in such a vast world with so many enemies and beautiful scenery is spectacular, simply one of the best open world games I've ever played.
Best game at Fromsoftware studio best bosses The best bosses I've ever fought in my life , Great music A very beautiful world and a world that helps you explore , oh man This game is one of the my best games in my life
The only thing I liked about this game: design/world (that’s why 2, not 0). This was the second and the last souls game I tried. Just no reason for me to “play” such games. No good game design. Nothing is clear. Almost all places in the works fulfilled with bosses. With random toughness. Not sure why people praise these games so much. Overrated and not interesting to play at all.
Simply magnificent! The ultimate soulsborne game! I love the new fighting mechanisms, I love the level design, and I love the lore!
Not fun at all. I can see why others like it though. But the graphics for the vegetation like trees and grass, were horrid. The pacing was odd too
True Masterpiece!Exploration at its finest!Miyazaki and R.R delivered the best blend of their worlds! Easily GOTY easily must play!GIT GUD!
Honestly after about 20 hours it felt so empty that I just moved onto something else. It's just bigger dark souls with no map or quest log. It's designed to make you wander around to find a bunch of stuff that means nothing, but occasionally you'll find a boss and a sword you're never going to use anyway. Good for challenge, but the technical performance is just awful so it's even harder because of that
It’s a great game. Exploration was incredible. Still outclassed in every aspect of gaming by GOW and Horizon FW.
This game has some very difficult bosses and pisses me off to no end but this game is also one of the most beautifully designed worlds I've had the pleasure to play.
This game is definitely awesome, but has many flaws that ruin it. The boss fights are next level, the soundtrack is incredible, and the art style/ atmosphere really is a sight to behold. Even though these things are great there are tons of issues. The content in the world is copy pasted with not that much liveliness to it, (excluding the occasional dungeon in regards to copy and pasted). The world just feels dead overall. The issues with the framerate on the current gen consoles is also frustrating. As for mechanics of the game there is nothing that makes it feel like it has been perfected or gotten better in any way. The combat and movement is still pretty clunky and janky. The tutorials are not helpful enough especially for players who are newcomers to the "Souls" type series. The menu and crafting system, and item use can be confusing as far as what the items do and what the purpose is. Compared to Sekiro's combat it feels like it is missing something. Also, sadly a lot of the same combat animations are used from Dark Souls 3. It just feels like the 10/10 ratings are all hype. I would say it is more likely in the 6/10 - 7/10 range. Although, that is just my opinion. The game just feels the exact same as all of the older FromSoftware titles including the older ones. If it is not broke don't fix it I guess, but there needs to be exciting new features and mechanics added.
I love this game, i can’t wait the DLC.
Lmao, butthurt over criticism this game receives, is absolute next level sht. No surprise tho, this is the first time ever, when real actual gamers tried to play "Souls" game. Because it was marketed as "easier to get into than other souls titles". Everyone knows that souls fanboys hardly ever play actually good stuff like final fantasy 7, red dead 1/2, gta games and so on. It's also first time ever lots of souls players experience open world setting. Not making it up even, there's so many comments on youtube about the fact that these people usually hate open world games. So now, when all the other gamers were invited to the party and they experienced how badly designed these boss simulators really are, of course they are angry. They should be. Actually good stuff almost never receives metascore 96. That's unheard of. For people who have played open world games their entire life, elden ring is one of the emptiest and most boring open world games they have ever seen. Of course they say it's sht, because it is sht. I could write entire book, why this game is absolute trash, but i don't care that much. 2/10
This isn't even about video games anymore, it's deeper. It's about ART. This is literally battle between good and evil. Video Games are deepest level of modern art and in the future they will be even more. Be on the right side of history and don't let games like this, destroy something that used to be so amazing for so many years. Games evolved endlessly, until this game happened. Downgrade in every aspect possible and what do they get? Highest Metascore. I wouldn't be surprised, if this was literal attempt by journalists (who don't like games or gamers anyway), to destroy gaming as a medium. They choose one of the most outdated, boring and empty games and hyped it up as a "masterpiece". If this is the blueprint how future games are supposed to be (no story, no characters, no meaning, no nothing, just pointless very hard combat), if that's the future of video games, then it's literally over. And that's exactly what these journalists want. They don't want players to have meaningful stories and characters that would empower them, no. They want the opposite. They want you to get beaten by very difficult bosses 100s of times and they want you to feel bad for yourself, because you can't beat these bosses and eventually you just give up and stop gaming and THAT'S, that's what they want.
It's extremely hilarious to read these 10/10 reviews and insanely supportive comments of this game, as it's some kind of revolution in gaming. While in reality games like this are ruining gaming as an art form. If you want empty and boring open world, full of meaningless monsters and insanely, indescribably difficult combat and no quests, good-for-you. But stop pretending like it's best game ever. It's okay to like bad games, enjoy. But leave actual real gamers out of it. Gamers who actually care about depth, and quests and storytelling and fair combat. Leave these people out of your "git gud" fetish.
I can't start to describe all the good parts about the game, the bosses are amazing and iconic, the map is incredible and invites you to explore all of it, the music and the story are great too, I hope it gets the GOTY because it deserves it
Elden ring is one of the worst pieces of media ever created, in terms of overhype at least. If you praise this game as a masterpiece, then i REFUSE to give you any respect as a gamer. Apparently it sold like 13 million copies, but it has under 500 000 reviews on steam and hardly anyone is playing it. Seems like some rich loser just bought thousands of copies, just to promote this trash. Exactly same overhype happened with cybertrash2077. Seems like most gamers just go with the flow and NEVER think for themselves. They are like "oh this one is popular, so i start preaching it as well". F-cking pathetic. I hate you all, literally. You guys are ruining gaming more than anyone has ever ruined gaming. If this game wins GOTY, it will be most pathetic "victory" for art, ever.
This game is complete waste of time, all you do is fight boss after boss and they are insanely difficult. And there's about thousand different bosses in this game and that's the entire game. In the meantime you just grind levels and roam around in this extremely empty open world. I guess it got so high reviews, because it has almost no story or characters, so it didn't offend anyone. These are only games that will get high reviews now.
Perfect Combat, explore as much or as little as you want. Great if you like a challenge. Best game of the last few years and one of the greatest of all time, though it may not be for everyone I urge any potential buyer to research if you have never played a FromSoft game or if you like a good challenge a fun and deep combat system and a mysterious open world filled with stuff you can choose to engage with or not, go into this knowing just the bare minimum.
masterpiece of a video game with little to know flaws easy 10/10 and my game of the year
I never was huge fan of these games but this entry hit a new low with a undeserved hype around it. You have to traverse an uninteresting map, the graphics look pretty outdated and the characters are lackluster. They reskin a lot of enemies and the combat gets real tedious real fast every fight feels the same. The best game of the souls like genre was definitely Bloodborne because it looked and felt somewhat unique. I wasn't a huge Sekiro fan but at least there they tried to shake up the visuals.
we need games like this, this game has very cool and beautiful artdesign, hard and interesting gameplay, i love this game
The graphics are mid and look like hell, There is so story so you just go around fighting bosses and have to grind for hours to get gear that wont make you get 1 hit by a boss.
Only what I have to complain that I want more content in form of DLC to make the world bigger and add more bosses and weapons because I cant get enough of Elden Ring.
Please make a game which all player can play it We don’t like the save system and difficulty of these games Why u don’t make an option for us too ! Players should have the right of choosing between different difficulty and different save method
BEST GAME EVER PERIOD. If you a gamer and skip this you are truly dumbo...
Fantastic game, with a few performance issues even on PS5 (which various DF type analysis show is the best console version of this game). A bit overrated by some but would be GOTY if not for Ragnarok.
An all time masterpiece achievement in video game history. The whole experience had me entirely engrossed and engaged. Worldbuilding and design are almost untouchable in this game. My only slight gripe is the dropoff in quality in the endgame but it still doesn't stop this game being as close to perfection as anyone has achieved in this modern era of gaming.
Another masterpiece from Maestro Miyazaki. The studio continues to make games in which you simply disappear for dozens of hours and forget the time. Goty 2022 for me
Do you rate a game 10/10 if nothing else is as good but it still have flaws? After all nothing is perfect but something has to be The Best Game. This is it: Not perfect but better than anything else released in quite awhile.
It’s not a hard game if you try a different approach and the mods are very fun on pc. Definitely worth the money and time spent on it.
If you rush you can make it the hardest Souls game you've ever played. If you take it a bit slower, it will be similar in difficulty to the old games. If you take it very slow and out-level content it also fits the bit more casual player, although don't think it will be easy. The open world and "questing system" are the new benchmark for the entire genre. For me it's one of the best games I've ever played.
This game is essentially a boring and repetitive version of Dark Souls with some changes to item names. I bought this as I did actually like Dark Souls 3, but Elden Ring just feels and runs like crappy PS3 game, seriously, my PS5 couldn’t even manage a stable 120FPS, at that stage, I returned it and bought another copy of Dark Souls 3. Another aspect I hate is the easiness, for the love of god, the only reason I remotely enjoy this is for the challenge, and when I have ghosts essentially fighting for me, it’s no good. The art design is only sometimes nice, other than that it feels like a muddy, brown world with a thin line of paint. I cannot even believe how some people think this might even have a slim chance of winning Game Of The Year, truly a terrible year for gaming as a whole.
I finished the game and the only thing I did was to go to the toilet and fast eating! Absolutely amazing game!
its just toooooo good!!! love this game. it has the best open world RPG system.
fantastic game، i enjoyed it، have a long story and perfect place design , I am waiting for the next version of this game
Most fun I've ever had playing a video game. My only issue is the lack of new enemies in a certain late-game area (MotG), as well as certain RPG elements being overwhelmingly better than others. Both of these really only take effect at the very end of the game, and you can just speed through the mid area and swap builds very easily, so they basically didn't detract from my fun at all. $60 for 120 hours of the most fun I've had playing a game. Can't recommend it enough.
I fell for the hype and wasted my money really boring game, graphics are dated, story has no substance, npc's are lifeless, lack of story makes it feel like there's no point or backstory to this game. The character animations are poorly done and make the combat feel inconsistent. I tried to get my moneys worth from this but feel hard done by.
10/10 gameplay 10/10 character builds 10/10 bosses 8/10 story (mysterious)
Great game, story is weird, and sometimes you need to use tutorial to know how to get to some places, but after all game is great!
this game is simply GOTY (I hope) what they have done here is simply a MASTERPIECE, but let's break it down 1 - THE MAP: The Elden Ring map is simply something I haven't seen in a while, an open world that WORKS! there is no one guiding you, there is no yellow line guiding you, there is no map in the corner of the screen, ABSOLUTELY NOTHING! The game just throws you into that huge and intuitive world that you don't even know where to start exploring, and when you think you're done there's MORE, everything you see is not just a PNG to give the idea that there's a world, everything it's an area for me to explore, for example when you arrive in liurnia dos lagos you see something that looks like a castle, and you arrive at the castle and think "ok I'm going to go in and it's going to be quick, never would anyone put so much work into a simple castelinho" me when you see you're inside raya's academy it would be a huge area with more than 7+ hours of gameplay if you're going to explore everything 2 - THE BOSSES: kinda repetitive and few are memorable, you can understand because it's a huge game, but you could at least work on some models maybe 3 - THE COMBAT: like dark souls with some modifications you can put special attacks on weapons and there are some different movements 4 - GRAPHICS: it doesn't matter that much, after all, a game is not made of graphics BUT OH MY GOD EVERY PLACE I LOOK IN THIS GAME IS A PICTURE 5 - ONLINE: good for invoking help, but for pvp it's not that good 6 - PLATFORMS: I played on PlayStation 4 and then on PlayStation 5 when I bought it and ok, but before launch I had bought it for PC and... I don't know how it is today but at that time it was very poorly optimized 7 - HISTORY: I'm too lazy to research it but it doesn't matter much 8 - SHOULD YOU BUY?: Absolutely! it's so worth it, 221 hours I spent of my life, could I have spent it on something good for me? yes, but still... i have no regrets, thank you FROMSOFTWARE and hope this wins GOTY
More games like this please. Game of the year for me. Great music, brilliantly designed world. Satisfying fights. The game does not explain practically anything, which I consider a big plus for me.
Having a lot of issues with the game and doesn’t provide me with anything to enjoy
I have been playing from software games since I was a kid< and I am a big fan of souls game. But this game is the only soul game that I have not played after finishing it. The game mechanics does not fit the open world concept, the animations takes too long especially the healing, and repetitive of the mini bosses is boring. Let alone the concept of collecting souls ( runes) to level up and just hit and dodge feels so out dated, ESPCAILY after SEKIRO. And the lack of story REALLY does not fit the open world sitting, I found myself feeling so bored....I can accept this lack of story things in the previous titles, but not here were it's a big open world.
Generational game! I hope the next game continues to improve on its story telling and brings more interesting side quests.
It's difficult to put into words how satisfying the gameplay and polish of this game is but it's truly a crowning jewel of From Software's incredible efforts in the last few years. Few games give you this level of challenge to reward ratio and Elden ring is worth your time for this reason alone.
What can i say that already hasn't been said? An 8 is high for me, i rarely give 9s and 10 is an impossible rating that all games should strive for. No game is perfect so no game should get a perfect score. Elden ring is incredible, a great game for new and old players in the Genre. It's enough different whilst still feeling the same. But its sadly a game plagued with all the issues of open world and a poor launch for performance and some issues with online balance. Elden ring is one of the best designed open worlds i've ever seen, you could literally put a 2 minute stop watch on repeat and before the timer stops you'd fine something interesting in the world every single time. It's designed that way, a place of interest spread so every 1-2 minutes the player is distracted by something new. it's the most accessible Fromsoft game to date, if you use the tools the game gives you, its by far the easiest game we've had (aside from 1-2 bosses being over tuned for this exact reason) which is great for new players, and if you want the brutal challenge this genre has become famous for, you can adjust the difficulty by just not using spirit ashes or co-op play. It's weapon design is great and so is its enemy design. Sadly however, the game suffers from overuse of assets due to it being an open world game. It also had a really bad launch with crashing and low frame rates.
(First of all, I have never played any souls game before Elden ring came out, so my opinions are probably not as reliable as others.) I think that this game is a good game, but it's just repetitive a lot of the time. When I bought this game I was expecting to have a massive world that I could explore and go anywhere that I want. The world is big, but you can not explore it easily, and many areas are restricted. In my opinion, I think being able to just go anywhere on the map easily would benefit this game, similar to Zelda. On a positive note, I do think that the gameplay and difficulty are perfect, despite how hard it is. I do think this game definitely has its moments, especially when you are fighting a boss. This game probably has the most variety in terms of enemies and biomes, but a lot of the biomes are just bland and ugly. Another complaint I have is that the weapon/armor system is horrible. There is just way too many weapons that it becomes incredibly overwhelming to choose a good one that fits you. If someone were to ask me if they should buy Elden Ring, I would tell them that it really depends on the type of games that you like to play.
Excellent story, bosses. But open world is obsolete. On PS5 the game works great
Don’t like the atmosphere and the gameplay dosent match the standards of the ps5. It’s also sometimes hard to see
I've played a lot of RPGs, but none of the Souls games. I could never really get into Elden Ring. The game has a nice open world -- that seems largely barren of characters and content. And when you find NPCs, the dialogue is pretty sparse. Battle is ridiculously difficult -- with a keep dodging until opening, attack, then go back to dodging model. I kept searching for alternative, less tedious ways to battle bosses, but came up short. Some of the artwork also seems off. Beautiful terrain, but then some screens seem like they were drawn by a child. A lot of the weapons (e.g., katanas) are ridiculously oversized, which creates a disproportionate effect.
The world is ugly & uninspiring. The performance on PS5 is atrocious. There is no story or plot. It is disgusting
A crazy game that will rock your world and destroy your perception of time and space.
Its disappointed and very very overrated game. Gow RAGNAROK is absolutely better.
The game is very bad in ps5 always drop fps and also glitches demon souls way better
Best open world game since The Witcher 3 and Red Dead Redemption 2, highly recommended
What a Masterpiece. Easily GOTY. the best Game FromSoft has done so far. One Playthrough had me 160+ hours and i wasnt bored a single second.
This game is a Masterpiece This game is a Masterpiece This game is a Masterpiece This game is a M asterpiece
Worst game ever bosses feel the same all you do is dodge hit dodge hit not satisfying gameplay god of war better
This might as well be the dense, rich and most adventurous game I could ever imagine playing. The Combat, the maps, the bosses with an added level of some mystery. Simply priceless. Game of the generation, must play!
The best Souls, the art, the music, the difficulty is what I ask from this kind of games and they knew how to do it, several bosses, several hours, open world, a lot to do, a lot to see.
Might be one of my favorite games to release in recent years, it has very fun combat, its a blast to play with friends, and its extremely tough.
The game looks great but the user interface is awful and the game provides nothing in the way of guidance. Unless you have the time to watch hours of YouTube videos to learn how to play this thing don't bother.
Loss of money, i can't imagine a game worse than it !! , I hope I didn't buy it, I wish there is a way to get my money back.
DON'T LISTEN TO THE HATERS! They are just frustrated cause they can't beat the game. Elden Ring is the best game I've ever played in my entire life! It's a truly masterpiece! Of course it could be improved, like every other game or thing in life. But still my favorite game of all time.
Great soulslike game. The difficulty is high just like any soulslike, but this time open world and filled with even more details than before.
The BEST GAME OF THE YEAR 2022 GOTY! It's amazing game, it's wonderful game, it's best game ever 10/10.
This is the best game of all time. The combat is second to none. The breadth if weapons and playstyles in insane and somehow balanced. I can’t imagine how much work went into this. You want to explore every nook and crany because you never know what you might find. Game of the Year easily.
This was my first Souls game so I needed to play a good amount of hours to understand most of the mechanics and how the game works... In the beginning I was very frustrated for some reasons, I just wanna play but I needed to create my character... For one side I really appreciate the amount of things you can do to edit your character but it's so complicated that I just skipped even not liking the standard ones. I later found out that you can't barely see him in your playthrough... The graphics aren't what I was expecting, especially for your character and NPCs and the lack of lip sync make it worst. The landscapes are good but I didn't feel impacted by them as I feel I should. For a PS5 game I was expecting another level in graphics and environment. One of the worst things about this game is the story driven or the lack of it.... I almost finished the game and don't know what I'm doing and why I'm doing. NPCs are randomly in the map and you can miss them very easy if you don't explore. The exploration part of the game is the best thing about this game along with the amount of weapons, spells and incantations you can use. The dungeons are fun but can be very similar though. Talking about the combat system, I feel like it's very frustrating at some times since you are punished for pressing a button in the wrong time and the inputs can have a delay to be executed or not to be executed at all... Enemies can hit you though walls... You'll be hit in the back by an enemy that has no sound... Also the lock system can be a pain for large enemies. You need to manage the equipment you carry as it can impact the speed of dodging and your attributes are important as well, mechanics that can be advanced for casual players. I got a lot of frame drops during my playthrough... even 7 months after it's release not all bugs and issues were fixed. Elden Ring is a good game at the end of the day but it's not for everyone. It's a evolution for the Souls games but nothing revolutionary for the game industry. The combat is fun at times but it's unbalanced bosses and some annoying enemies can ruin your mood to play it specially in the late game.
The game is so stupidly big and the story is meaningless and has no structure. And it has no quest log, it's a joke; so you should take notes on an actual notebook of the quests' objectives and locations. This is A Ridiculous game and utterly OVERRATED.
Good but failed my expectations, the 5 is for the boss fights and the music, I didn't like the other stuff much, the exploration was good but I just felt weird and empty playing it something wasn't right, bloodborne is the best souls game in my opinion. I don't think it will win GOTY, I think Ragnarok will get it.
This is the new benchmark for open world games. Just to prove exploration, and mystery is enought to keep players engaged (and in awe) without the need for a cluttered world map full of icons for tidious tasks and fetch quests. Beautifully done From Sfotware.
Overrated af. Very simple and repetitive combat compared to the likes of NioH, it has Lore but no gripping story and the Shakespearian is honestly just too tryharding. Legacy of Kain does a far better job at portraying an old dialect that also sounds actually good.
This game is alright it reuses animations from DS3 and the story is mediocre in my opinion. However I love the open world aspect
Fun combat, fun exploration with big world, light story with much lore. Progression can be a bit annoying sometimes.
Absolute masterpiece Gameplay, world, lore, literal chills through the whole 100 hours experience
Best game I've played this year really enjoying it 350+ hours into it even tho malenia made me reconsider my decisions in life
The game is complex and unclear, the story is like that, and the world is repetitive, as well as the tasks are available in more than one game, in fact, it did not bring anything new
I played this game in like March so it's been a while but this game is just more of the same from developers FromSoft. This can be good in some regards but it still doesn't match up to the standards that Bloodborne or even Sekiro set up for the company. Even with GRRM on the writing team, the story is absent and the music score is forgettable. Overall a little disappointing but still a decent game for the first 30 hours or so.
Open world greatness, everything BOTW did but turned up to level 12. No weapons breaking after couple hits, absurd exploration and enemy variety, insanely rich lore and world.
One more FromsSoftware masterpiece. In this year is the GAME OF THE YEAR!!! It deserves.
I love this game I bought it shortly after its release and from the beginning there has never been a thing I didn't like, very large and vast territory, map where every single detail is found, bosses wonderful aesthetics and difficult to right point, immense character customization, equipment of both weapons and vast armor and finally but not least graphically too beautiful, the rest is all to be discovered. Highly recommended, truly deserved 10/10
It's literally just a walking simulator except you might have a sword sometimes.
This is a true triple A game. Great music, no **** micro transactions, a huge enthralling open world and much more. If you left a bad review for this game your supporting the **** that’s peddled out in the games industry ever year. This was a game made with passion and love needs all the recognition it deserves so other game companies can see that we appreciate it when they actually deliver a finished product made with care.
I don't know why I didn't like it, but I fell asleep while playing. These kind of games are not for me Elden Ring taught me that :D. It was still a good experience.
This game ruined other games for me. I put more than 100 hours into the game and I didn't even had tapped into the story. The first time playing it, it felt like exploring a unknown realm in a dream. One of those experiences that you wish you can erase and relive it. The art design, animation, graphics, and different biome in the game, made 2022 gaming for me.
Solid Game With Fun Combat And An Amazing Open World that you can get lost in for hours bosses are most of the time unique and fun too fight but there are a lot of repeat boss fight that can get boring also the game has a very loose story that’s hard to follow, another complaint is that it got very boring at times but overall a solid 8.5
Elden ring is a beautiful game graphically. I bought it when it first launched due to so many people telling me how awesome it was. Never got around to playing it until more recently. Although visuals were great and sound was pretty good, I wish there were more story elements that i didn't have to go out of my way to understand. I don't want non stop cut scenes, but a few more would've been nice. It should be fun to go through a story, not boring work. I am a father, and finding time to play games is hard. I know souls style games are hard, but I just cant pick it up and progress much with its difficulty. I have played bloodborne and dark souls and i felt similar. It feels like the same games in an open world. I spent about 15 hours with the game. I will say it is definitely good graphically, but just not the game i was looking for. I became bored with dying repeatedly and by the time i would figure something out, itd be time to stop playing. I felt no satisfaction. I had no performance issues, and i don't have hate for the game. But to me, its just not good and i do not understand the hype. Id never give a game a 0 because that's just ridiculous, but i cant give it more than a 3 because its just not fun or entertaining to me. The 15 hours I spent with it were boring and annoying.
Whats to say about the game that hasn't been said already? Its beautiful, fun, and innovative. The game is just amazing i cant praise it enough.
The game is mediocre and mainstream media outlets once again proved that they are irrelevant and trash. One of the things that Sekiro did the best for souls games was adding posture and finishers which made the bosses 10 times more epic than Dark Souls and Bloodborne. Now all of a sudden they just scrapped that and downgraded it to the first souls game. You kill those mediocre bosses and they just vanish that's it, nothing special. Yea there's some kind of a posture still in Elden Ring but it's nowhere near as good. Another thing is the fantastic storytelling which Sekiro had and all of a sudden they felt that they need to not make a story and give us text as a lore. You should sit on your chair and read text... uninteresting af. Yea there's some cutscenes here and there but again, it's not nowhere near as good as Sekiro. Graphics and animations are PS3 or mid PS4 level, even Bloodborne which is a 2015 game has better graphics than Elden Ring 2022. Uninspiring map, level design and bosses which are the same as previous FromSoftware games with no innovation and improvements, basically more the same. They just milking the formula. Mediocrity on every bit of the game.
GOTY definetly. thank you miyazaki san for this amazing game, really enjoyed gameplay and story
Elden Ring is a masterpiece across the board. 1000x better than recycling content GoW.
this game is far from perfect making an open world game and fill it with copied enemies and copied bosses and dungeons this is a ubisoft game more than a fromsoftware game the way that bosses are so slow when they try to strike is so ridiculous the only boss who I had fun fighting wit is the dragonlord Placidusax cuz he is different from the rest i hate this game and ragnarok is better
A grand beautiful experience beautifully crated by the Fromsoftware team, this game is a bonanza of from soft games and DNA. Music and world design is a standout. A great game.
This is without a doubt the best game FromSoftware has ever done. This game is huge with tons of dungeons and areas and secret zones to explore, and you will want to explore all of it. This game has tons of builds you can make, complimented with hundreds of spells and weapons that really bolster this game's replay value. Games like this are far and few between, so you better be sure to buy it.
I played my fair amount of souls like games, this is the ulitmate version of a souls like. It has everything that makes it stand out and it just feels great. The gamepley, the story, the graphics, the soundtrack everything about this game screams 10/10, this game has become one of my top 10 fav games of all time easily.
A masterpiece **** that comes once every decade. Japan is truly teaching the west how video games should be made and it breaks the usual open world game blueprint that has infested AAA games. Truly game of the year.
It looks awesome there are many cool bosses but whenever I try to kill something my character just starts swinging wildly because there is no lock on system.
Number of brain dead GoW fans (don't get me wrong, I'm not saying all GoW fans are brain-dead) who leave 1-3 star and say "they are a fan of this series" just to try to hide themselves is mind boggling. I at least hope ER players doesn't escalate this with a "counter-strike". If you want actual rewievs I recommend actual gamer channels who have no political trash in their channel.
Best game ever! I like this game. Graphics is amazing and performance is great even on ps4.
This game treat the player like a grown and intelligent person, Its doesnt hold you hand and tell where to go every second you play. I gives you freedom to explore however you want since the first minute. Best Open World game I've ever played!!!
The game has a wonderful and beautiful world and many legendary side missions
After 150 hours of play I changed the grade from 9 to 10, really the game is very good and GOTY 2022. Better than GOW
I always hate souls and souls like games and I hate this and all of souls like games
Definitely the GOTY. Everything about this game is 10/10. Period. Played on Xbox Series X and the experience was over expectations.
Eldenring was my first soulslike game ever and it surprised me. The Atmosphere of this game is fantastic. Crazy good world building, cool bosses and cool items. It feels so rewarding playing along its so good. But this game also has many problems. For new players especially at the start it is very hard to get into a direction and know what to do. Some bosses in the early game are way to hard and they get repetitive after time. Combat is great but if you skill on 1 weapon it will get boring after time. The biggest down point of this game is that you do always the same thing. You kill, loot and fight the boss every single time but still a solid 9
It's a very difficult game and someone who doesn't play this kind of games will delete it directly. I'm playing this game for the first time, I deleted it after 3 hours
Much better than God of war ragnarok, Elder Ring it's a true videogame not an interactive movie
Mid game. I am a big fan of soul games . But this game is bad , bad graphics, no story, mid gameplay. Bloodborne is much better.
This game he's not a souls game, more year to waiting this game? Are you serious Miyazaki? This game is for a noob souls player This game is trash, 150 boss.. Are all brother and sister.. Disgusting, God of war ragnarok GOTY
Boring ass game. Slow combat from ps3 era and story is painfully written. They need to bring back snappy fast gameplay like Sekiro
Easily one of the best games. It it sad to see some people rate it so low just because of the difficulty. All I can say is GIT GUD
This game is quite good. A lot of God of War fanboys came to here to give 0 ratings in a single day on November 12, 2022. The ratings are abnormal. So be careful.
Top 3 games of all time for me. This game introduced me into the souls genre and for that I am EXTREMELY grateful for. This game has allowed me to spend hundreds of hours on it without getting bored or running out of ideas for builds and strategies. The customizability alone in this game (armor, weapons, ash of war, character sliders) is literally unparalleled with any game I know of (honestly not an exaggeration) This game changed the world, proven by their sales and proven by the games to come for years after trying to replicate this wonderful game. Thank you Miyazaki ️
Most fun i had playing a single player game in 5 years. It felt like playing skyrim for the first time.
The people that wrote bad reviews probably just **** at souls games. This game is great.
Didn't like the story. Too simple, too short story. Not reasonably hard bosses.
Definitely one of the best games of all time. Excellent combat system, amazing design, masterpiece music, interesting plot construction. The open world of this game works, it's really fun to explore. Just awesome.
One of the Greatest video games I have ever played. Truly beautiful and immersive world with some of the best variety I have ever seen.
the game is not that bad, yes its hard the world is nice but the story is **** if you to understand it or to know the characters you need to read information around the map and I got bored of it too fast after finishing it
Platinum the game, game is abit of a drag, no story, no direct narrative, constantly looking at internet as no hint or explanation to what’s going on, but I couldn’t have the game saying 57%. Repeating so I had to complete it. Very glad when I could put blu-ray back in the case.
So overrated for a boring, story less game. Literally a combat only game where the bosses say pretentious convoluted purposely vague things that are nonsense, that's it. The open world is big and can look nice and interesting but that's the only good thing, you just fight a bunch of random deformed monsters and stuff. It's lame.
Just a horrible designed game. No story and can't escape reality to play it. No direction on what to do or where to go
It may be argued that as a fan of the series, I have a biased opinion of Elden Ring, but then again, every review that has ever been written has been affected by bias in some way, so it is what it is. It sounds like a broken record at this point, but Elden Ring is the culmination of every lesson that FROM Software have learned over the past decade+ of making games in this genre. From big things like enemy, level and UI design, to small things like Quality of Life improvements, Elden Ring feels incredibly intentional and hand-crafted in its means of interacting with the player. It has gotten more people into the series than any game before, and as someone who has played each game countless times, it stands amongst them as a crowning achievement.
This is totally ridiculous as the from softwere is re-proposing the exact same souls like to the others that is,he could call it dark souls 4,but even if it was nothing innovative same boring mechanics,is BOREED!!!
Just another copy - past of the soul formula, the most boring combat system ever made that take no skill at all, just patience - roll - attack - roll - attack - etc. etc. Massively overrated
Great game. Best open world. Massive. Best in game design I ever seen. Game starts after 12 hours (after first real story boss). People giving it low rating because they gave up too early in the tutorial area(whole first region is almost tutorial). It's their loss. Hail to the great golden tree.
shrrrrrrr trrrrrrr shirararararar all elden rings fun give 0 to god of war ferst elden ring not give best story but god of war have best story in the world second elden ring not have a good graphic but god of war have a very good graphic
awesome game, such an amazing compendium of from software history, but to be honest I don't understand this outstanding enthusiasm by the critics, I mean the game have some clear bugs and problems
Best game I’ve ever played!!!! Fromsoft does it again. A company that consistently provides good gaming has no brought to us over 100 hours of quality content. More than double any other game in contention for GOTY.
A game that could have been the best and perfect in its genre and form, but turned out to be just great. The main problems are the open world and unbalanced complexity. Otherwise, the game is really perfect: PVP has become more responsive and enjoyable, a lot of weapons and armor, a wonderful sound, plot, lore and interaction with the game world. It's a shame, but I hope the fromsoftware will get better
The game is of course great in all areas. Amazing bosses, huge map and is overall beautiful. However all i felt was anxiety while playing it making it impossible to actually enjoy it.
I tried to play this game so many times, but its still very boring. I dont like the fact that you dont know where to go and you must watch youtube videos to progress.
One of the greatest games of all time ! Everything is pure perfection! The epitome of all the years that they created this genre with . Perfection ! Thanks from Software
Western devs take not... This is what a masterpiece looks like without the infestation of personal political beliefs and opinions. FromSoft has created art. Art for the ages. This gaming artwork will sit in the museum of gamers hearts forever..
As a true Souls fan (all Platinums and an abid PvPer and invader since DeS), ELDEN RING is a great game that has very fun gameplay, exploration (if on first playthrough), great soundtrack and overall good and serious "vibes" (the game takes itself seriously and it has a soul). But, it holds your hand too much with stuff like tutorials, Ashen Summons, OP weapons and spells, no solo host invasions, stance breaking, not many dangerous enemies. It also is very easy to overlevel an area, because the game does a very poor job gating and placing weapon upgrade materials and Rune gains all throughout the game's areas; making it so, for example, you reach to the Academy of Raya Lucaria at lvl 65-70 (if you've done some decent exploring) when that area feels balanced around lvl 53-60. Overall, I firmly believe From Software casualized the game too much and we the fans didn't gatekeep enough to counteract that. And yet, it still is on one of the best games ever made and the best to come out in these past 2 years, because the game HAS a soul, it has charm and you can feel it was made with love and respect, something most games lack nowadays. I give it an 8, to me a 10 would be the likes of true masterpieces that didn't give a **** about others and they succeeded in doing so, aka Bloodborne, Metal Gear Solid 3, Halo 3 and dark Souls 2 SoFTS. If you are a manchild who wants to start doing something badass, play ELDEN RING and stop playing those **** generic action cinematic games like Horizon, Last Of Us or GoW.
It’s dark souls 4 with open world more than a new ip to me , I hope this is the last open world to souls game .
I haven’t been addicted to a game like this since Skyrim. I’ve bought every copy of Skyrim since release and all collectibles. You can say I’m a dedicated Skyrim fan. Well, Elden ring just became my new favorite game! I’ve started collecting everything. It seriously the best game I’ve played since Skyrim! Definitely getting my vote for Game of the Year
Masterpiece...combat system is almost perfect with Wide variety of playstyles and mind-blowing art direction. Words can't describe how good this game is.
Stop review bombing this game. It's pathetic. God of war is good, but its fans doing this shows they don't think it can win without help.
Fromsoft continues making the best games of all time. I don't know how they do it.
Very good game other than a few parts but still very fun. Just as good as God of war Ragnarok
FROMSOFT delivers yet again. Please buy this; support this company, there one of the very few good ones left.
Most overrated game of 2022. - Re use of bosses and levels - Disappointing end game, just a run of 6 bosses straight - Stupid side quests
Pure Trash, boring story, **** game mechs, so slow like so so slow and overall a awful 5 hour experience
The best game I’ve ever played. The crown jewel of FormSoftware’s lineup definitely lives up to its hype, with the similar mechanics and themes we all know and love, now in their most expansive and beautiful world yet. The open world opens so much opportunity and encourages exploration like never before. The world / environmental design and even the music make this game #1 on my list. I’ve already played it 4 times over and 100% the game and have yet to get tired of it.
This game is just a flat out masterpiece the music the open world definitely my goty
What i don't really get about all these low ratings here is how someone can buy a soulslike and complain about it's soulslike-style. Elden Ring is a soulslike in an open world. And while this is its biggest strength it seems to turn out as its achilles heel as well.
Absolute Masterpiece. One of the greatest games of all time, will continue to be played for years to come and will define a generation. Other games will now be measured against Elden Ring.
The best game of the year and one of the best of all time! I’m a souls enthusiast and this is THE best Fromsoftware has made. A true gem and a must play. If you’re a gamer and haven’t played this… what the heck are you thinking? Go play it!
Probably the greatest game I've ever played, and I've been playing for over 30 years. So much joy in exploration and satisfaction in combat. Like the perfect synthesis of medieval fantasy and lore in an epic RPG.
it is the best game of the year, it made open world games better again it r
I can see the point of view that it is a very good game but I don't think it is for me. I honestly got bored about half way through the game and gave up. I felt like the entire time I was basically doing one thing, dodge and then slash at the feet of some big boss. Maybe if I had played a magic class I would have had more fun. I think I need a game with a compelling story to keep me engaged and this game doesn't really have that.
GOTY. Ponies are review bombing so they can flaunt GoW Ragnarok's higher user score on twitter, absolutely pathetic. I thought I may as well jump in and do my part in mitigating this bs lol.
My first Souls-game. Absolutely loved it. Took a great deal of confidence and determination getting started but as soon as I got the hang of the controls and movement, it was so much fun. Beautiful game and a fantastic soundtrack to play by. 10/10. I recommend the heck out of this game!
Good game overall, but has a fatal flaw: bosses that are on crack, with a lot of fast attacks that deal huge damage, a speed that is way too fast for your characters base toolkit, in other words, you are playing DS3 while the bosses are playing Elden Ring, mixed with repetitive dungeons filled with repetitive bosses that just feel like they are there just to fill the world.
Bloated and recycled. The combat system tricks you into thinking that it is deep, but in fact it is just really shallow with few viable weapons and ashes of war.
Everything feels the same like the old souls but with open world Didn’t feel the story have much to tell and because the open world for sometimes i forgot what where and when i basically need to do This game is exhausting and 5-6 hours in the game are really enough for me I loved the demon souls remake and dark souls 3 and im an hard fan of bloodborne Nothing more to say i wish them luck for the next game
Anyone rating this anything below a 5/10 is probably a games journalist or an old grandma that can't play games
a strong contender for the best game ever and people who disagree probably think crunchy peanut butter is too difficult to eat.
This game lived up to the hype. The open world is so much more dynamic and interesting than most open worlds. From software got a lot more out of their terrain and space in the open world by playing with topography. With all the mountains and valleys it really adds layers and a dynamic nature to the world.
Amazing open world, so many secrets, an endless amount of potential builds. One of the best games ive played in years
An extraordinary experience. The best adventure i've lived all time. Thank you From. It's the Goty 2k22
It's one of the best expérience i've ever seen. This the new generation of the open world design.
Best of the best! My goty!!! very clever and wonderful, you get lost in his exploration, basically darksouls 4 but with a winning open world formula
I don't really like this game, the graphics do not look too great and the bosses are insanely hard, I think the story is good and everything but it is not worth GOTY in my opinion, stray would be a better option
Multiplayer, for all platforms, the best of the Saga of Souls combined in a dense open world and full of lore with an incredible main plot. A revolution for the Soulslike genre of video games created by themselves. 10
Soooo. I think it's one of the best games I've ever played, and I'll tell you why relatively succinctly. The world is a wonderful place to explore, just like TLoZ: BotW is. It encourages you to think about your own path like Skyrim or The Witcher 3, but still retains the style and soul of a typical From Software Souls-like title. Add to that great characters created with great attention to detail and an interesting story with many secrets to uncover. The only thing I would have to complain about is the graphics. It could have been better. But all together a brilliant game created by visionaries, for dreamers who like to lose themselves in dark fantasy worlds and play the controllers bloody.
Like its predecessors before it, Elden Ring manages to be yet another of the games of all time. This is truly the 'Dark Souls' of open world video games.
no words needed This game is the best game in the world. 2022 GOTY Elden Ring
The best game I have ever played and it is not even close. Do yourself a favor and play this game right now.
Another great game by From Software, probably the bigger one and most difficult. The world is giant with areas that grows from the underground to the tallest mountain. I didn't like too much the lore because of a lot of plot holes and "copy and paste" things from the other stories; it's not original like Sekiro or Bloodborne; for that I don't give full score. The game is really challenging with some bosses nearly impossible like Malenia, but there is always a way to beat them in a easy way (mimic tear coff coff), overall beautiful in his aesthetic but TOO much similar with Dark Souls, like a copy and paste.
It's a game like no another.Just play it and if you find the game too difficult just git gud.
This game is not for everybody, but if you get trough the learning phase it will be one of the best gaming experiences you could have. One problem with this game are the sometimes unbalanced bosses however, you will find yourself either relying on companions or changing your build and playstyle entirely just to kill one boss...
I'm an Elden Ring enjoyer and I'm still playing this masterpiece, this game was amazing journey for me, I love game atmosphere, Elden Ring is stunning, literally G.O.A.T
Elden ring is a true present to all souls fans. One of the best open worlds in all the videogames history. Amazing game. Thank you, Master Hidetaka Miyazaki. Thank you, FromSoftware)))
The game is very repetitive, all bosses look the same, i played all the previous souls game, it should be titled as a souls like game because its a souls game
Quite fun game. I finished the game twice and I continue to play non-stop, I haven't played a game like this in years. very interesting PVP and PVE system
An absolute masterpiece by From Software. One of the few open world games that doesn't get boring. PS4 version running on PS5 is super smooth and it still looks nice.
This game seemed fun, however, it is so disgustingly hard that it is unplayable. Every attempt to find a solution to the diffuclty is met with "gIT GuD nOoB"
Great game overall, but lacks in creativity and originaly in comparison with de Souls saga and Bloodborne. Miyazaki has to refresh, or, at least, create a world with unique bosses and memorable areas.
Genuinely one of the best games I have ever played the open world mixed with the 100s of bosses make this game go down as the best souls everade
ps5 performance is very bad 40 fps what is this give me my money back ps5 power is not good 40 fps
Bosses so good but using summons bad idea. Graphics amazing fight very good.
This game has improved systems while giving players the freedom to do whatever they please. Honestly amazing!
It's darksoul 4, with all of the hype around graphic, gameplay, story, I expect something much much more than just darksoul with horse
Overrated i broke my nnn coz of this **** better ez win gg ur mom nig g a yokala
A lot of Creepy & Terrifying monsters but the open world did not do much for the game because it's literally a Bloodborne game in an open world.
It's good game but boss is bad and i think dark souls 3 and bloodboorn are betaer
I know there are many celebrating this game lime the holy grail. And i get it. I also rate things for what they want to be, and elden ring delivers big in what it want to be. There is no doubt, it is one of the best of it's genre. But there isn't truly a story, no, it's not too complicated, it's not too confusing for me, it's simply told in a bad way. Also, they still didn't balance builds or even explain it very good. I spend all my ressources to max a strength weapon because i did spend most points in strenght, but the strongest weapon i can possibly have right now has a C rating in strenght. Very grindy if you want to try several weapons. You gotta take what you picked. Graphics are bad too For fans, it is a 9. Overall a 7. That's why I'll rate it an 8.
More of the same in a good and bad way. Great gameplay and fairly interesting world (though not their best). Poor ass graphics for 2022, saved to an extent by artistic direction. Too spread out. I got bored and stopped playing. Bloodborne was better. All subjective, of course. No need to get pissed if you disagree.
It's literally Dark Souls under another name, if you already bought Demon's Souls this is just more of it. Only difference is that it's open world and more boring. The only reason this got a 4 for me is cause the first few hours was just me exploring the world which was a good time waster but then I realize I'm not doing any progress in the game so it lost me over time.
so hard. and low graphics . I can't playing 1 hours why making so hard
I can't really fathom all these 10/10 scores, i feel like you all played a different game. Like sure the bosses are fun, sure there are some cool loot in this game. Here is the thing though, recycling. Too much and and it's boring, too little and you have a 20 year project. Personally i felt it was too much, same boss in some random dungeon like 3 times, didn't feel rewarding in the least. Main issue is the balancing, you could easily just balance the weapons so that there isn't such big gaps. First playthrough i died on average 60-90 times per boss, because i like short duel-wielding weapons, makes me feel cool. I had no idea that here you cant do that because the bosses are scaled to handle op magic casting ****, which took me a long ass time to figure out because nobody knew anything yet. Playthrough number 2 3 4, im just cruising through the bosses like it's nothing. is it because i "got gud"? No, it's because i found op **** and scaled hp, because scaling anything else is almost useless. The best strat is getting a good weapon and just getting enough stats to cover the weapons needs and then only level vitality. I leveled from 20-40 in dex just to test this theory on a boss, i went from 350 per hit to 409, rather useless if you ask me. So my issue isn't that it's "too hard" or "too easy", it's that without knowledge it's too hard, and with knowledge it's so boringly easy that it's hard to concentrate. A lot of people take pride in this difference and say "it's because i explored so well" "i got good", when that's not the case. Prime example is if you start samurai: basically easy mode, if you go bandit: hard mode. There has never been this much difference between classes at the start. You could always "out-skill" the boss with well timed doges in ds3 but here that is less of a factor and your starting gear matters more, which i think is a huge issue. The only thing here is the awesome bosses that carry the whole game, some cool moments at the end after boring, tiresome, and repetitive gameplay, which to be honest made them feel more grand, so i'll give them that. But it's not a masterpiece, not in the slightest. It's too repetitive, very bland scaling system that makes no sense, poorly scaled armor, and an overvalue of the vitality stat. If these where fixed ye then i would agree it's a masterpiece.
Is a really good game a ajkfsdja really good i love elden ring a y es god y tiene muchas armas
Unimpressed with visuals and gameplay. Definitely not my style of game. Bosses looked cool and are the only thing that bumps it up to a 2.
My first souls game ever and was not disappointed. easily one of the best games ever made
Way to overrated!! It should get a 75 not 96 the fact is that the God of war ragnarok is way better and anjoyable! Elder ring review it’s been on a hurry!
Overall a great game, game play is always king in video games and when it comes to Elden Ring game-play is great plus combined with world design exploration is so satisfying damn near perfect ...now when it comes to story its ok and that is great video games are games not interactive movies none and story telling here is background decoration ....i just really wish elden ring should have an option to incorporate bloodborne combat
Please dont say that elden ring is **** when the game is actually so good its not overated or underated its just the people i dont understand they say the game is terrible but they didnt played any other souls like and dont know the objective of the game this game looks like dark souls 3 in 2016 these 2 games are damn good
I regret buying this mid game wasted my hard earned money, I bought it because of the hype, after playing it I felt like I wasted my time, the game has no story, the graphics ****, the gameplay is clunky, the game is mid
A Perfect rpg openworld game, mixt with the soulslike genre. Its one of the best Fromsoftware game that exist.
As a souls veteran, i think its the second perfect souls game, the bosses are too great, i give it a 10/10 no hesitation
I cant discribe how every game i played got boring after i finished elden ring And... oh, I got to tell you, it was perfect. Perfect. Everything, down to the last minute details
Perfect gaming world, astonishing combat and art style. A game that rewards players for their exploration and attention to details
The best game created by software so far, Goty Winner Absolutely!!!!!!!!!!!
Elden Ring has received much praise and critical acclaim elsewhere, so in my review I'd actually like to tackle some controversies and areas where I took exception to Elden Ring, despite enjoying it for nearly 70 hours. The graphics are the best that the Souls genre has to offer and at present are being added to via patches to make them even more stable. My main gripe with them was the framerate dipping sometimes but this was not often or harsh enough to hinder my enjoyment. Elden Ring on one hand is possibly the most accessible Souls game so far, but on the other hand it could easily be a complete nightmare if it's your first Souls game One or two of the early bosses are clearly designed for you to pass and come back to later when you are stronger, however non-Souls players won't know this and could easily be frustrated. The biggest gripe I have with ER and Souls games in general is that an online guide is an essential if you want to progress without constantly hitting barriers. This is doubly evident in ER where we are advertised an open-world, but in reality you will be crushed quickly if you wander too far off the expected path. The game is more like a series of smaller open areas which then become a huge open world by the end, which isn't really a problem as each area gives you plenty to do and explore. Another issue I take note of in ER in particular is this seems to be the Souls game with the cheapest enemies, bosses in particular. I noticed that when enemies do a combo there always seems to be one or two additional attacks that are less intuitive, as if designed to simply catch you off-guard. Added to this was the fact that I ran the tankiest strength build I could conceive of (without going through complex guides) and many later enemies were doing serious damage still, so it makes me hesitant to play as any other build. This brings me to another issue I had with ER. It's simply too big and too long. When I was on hour 69 and beating the final boss I breathed a sigh of relief rather than satisfaction, glad that it was finally over. This doesn't inspire me to replay the game and amazingly I still didn't complete some additional quests and optional bosses as I'd simply become fatigued of the game by this point, especially as the harder optional bosses such as Melania are simply cheap two-stage bosses. Many fans lord over the quests in Souls games but these are one of my most hated areas of the game. They are obfuscated by design, intentionally not giving you obvious or clear instructions. I find it quite bizarre that Fromsoftware would barricade some of their best content and make it very easy to miss - many quests are time or context specific so you can miss an opportunity to complete them altogether. Again, some fans love this but I'm not one of them and disagree with this design. On that note, I'll also give my two cents on another hot topic - difficulty. I fully believe Souls games should have adjustable difficulty levels. Again it baffles me that Fromsoftware would barricade the game itself away from potential fans, although judging by recent sales they don't need to worry about that as much. I just believe that in general we should identify where barriers exist in games and look at whether they need adjusting, and this is already something From is aware of as they have nerfed some weapons and bosses already. Tied to the quests we also have the overall story. Elden Ring is probably the most coherent of the Souls games I've played in terms of story, but again leaves a lot of it in the backseat in favour of gameplay. This is one thing I am in favour of, as I found that when cut-scenes did happen I was much more interested and engaged. Despite my criticisms above, Elden Ring is in the top-tier of games I have played throughout my life and will likely remain a favourite as it shows exactly how an open-world can be done, throwing a gauntlet in the face of games such as Assassins' Creed and Far Cry. It baffles me that developers look at Elden Ring's success and still insist on their exploitative live services. One final thing I have to say is that I actually regret buying ER day one as there is still a lot of updating and patches being brought out by Fromsoftware, so I would actually recommend waiting a few months or for the inevitable GOTY edition as DLC is sure to follow also. This is one game you cannot afford to miss.
overrated asf just another boring souls game wasting money game not worth it.
Positives The Elden Ring game gives you many choices in designing your character and the way you play the way you want, you may choose a samurai near / medium-range or like a long-range wizard, and while you face the bosses, you will learn from your mistakes and discover solutions yourself, the feeling of winning is very beautiful when defeating strong bosses. The challenges remain in studying the bosses, how to eliminate them, the timing of your strikes and blocking attacks, while you focus on the most important Stamina in combat with blood filling and magic. The developer has excelled in making worlds with many beautiful details and secrets. The game will fascinate you with its many areas and a very wide world, all the way to the end of the game and you are fascinated by this great world and the epic music during the fighting and the calm or frightening also succeeded in creating the atmosphere of fighting and exploration. Character development such as Dark Souls is based on the level and the way you play and the development of potions and their effects with the Golden seed or SACRED TEAR with the addition of the new single-use bottle FLASK OF WONDROUS PHYSICK It adds special features such as summoning magic without draining magic, with the development of normal weapons or Basic Legendary level up your play with normal or special stones. The story and characters may seem mysterious and slight, but they follow an environmental narrative that makes you deduce the events yourself, and with many secrets and side stories you will enjoy discovering the mysteries of the world on your own. Negatives Technical performance issues in the appearance of the world in motion, camera problems with entering turns and shooting - locking and incomplete intelligence of enemies can make the experience unpleasant. The abilities of the new generation were not used, and the game was not good at graphics unlike Damon Souls who used the abilities of this generation! Elden Ring is based on the similarity of the Dark Souls series in some areas of the game and its ideas in the leaders and the story, such as the character that guides you on the way and helps to level up, control or the way you fight. And the battles, as well as Bloodborne's resemblance to some of its elements, may become all-consuming to you. The game world is so big, the player gets lost in the beginning, and there is nothing to guide you in the way except some light that comes from the locations of the Quraish. If you finish the whole game, you will see that there are many bosses that are similar in appearance and fighting style, as well as ordinary monsters, which will repeat in many areas and the change is only in the form. changing! Leader in the name of what you faced five times in the same way! Consider the thing very negative. The caves are the same and the idea is to open the door for the leader. The change is only the rial of the cave, but the same look and the same idea, except for some. The caves are like ghost cave with lighting at the end opening the door
The greatest game I’ve ever played. The combat is in point, the weapon variety is massive, the world is incredible and big with full of excitement.
The game was amazing and the bosses fine but Im its like a dark souls 6 so i didn't like it alot
The game is very bad and the reason is celery there is no development in celery. As for the Kim yes it is fun but there are some mistakesThe old part was better than this part
Nah man this game its Just perfect i love every damn thing the only thing that Is a Little meh its The duration of the game for me like the main STORY
Easily a 10/10 very easily the best game that will come out in 2022 fantastic graphics deep intriguing lore diverse combat new ways to play. Perfect. Easily Goty winner.
I bought the game from the day it came out and I really enjoyed it and I give it a 10 because it It has enchanted me
96? By Critics you must be Kidding. The game has lots of problems. And it's not a game changer just Darksouls with Open World boring story.
Pretty stunning game, had my own struggles with skill issue but overall it's just perfect, never played dark souls games but this was my first one and it gave me pretty amazing experience!
This game ****.... . . . BAZINGAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I know it is a great game but i rather prefer Nioh. I want to see when Nioh comes to Xbox also. Team Ninja listen and put Nioh on Xbox
Worst game ever, very ugly game, graphics looks like PS3 Values Play Repeater It's just hitting and dribbling nothing more, the **** there a story at all? Of course there is no story
best game in my life ....graphics, story, game play thanks fromsoftware,for this masterpiece
The game is just absolutely incredible to play and look at! You can go anywhere at virtually anytime if you know what you are doing. The online combat is way better than the previous from soft games because of their new mechanics to power-stance and even jump. The game turned alot of people away just because of its skill gap but you just need to not press the buttons randomly as in sometimes you cant just spam R1 to victory sometimes you gotta time your attacks and not follow through with your combos because well he's gonna hit you in your face. Overall great experience over 700 hours in 6 different saves and i can tell you worth the 60$
Exact Same formula since 2009, 13 years. Boss designs are badass not gonna lie and there's plenty of them bravo
After playing this game for more than 70 hours I can finally conduct my thought. In general, it's **** The game is not worth the money and other soulslike games will probably provide you a much better experience. Bosses are not original, with lame movesets and only couple of them worth noticing. Dragons are basically the same with only difference in damagetype. A lot of the bosses are just reskinned version of the ones that you have already encountered. Some are just made super OP instead of being hard and interesting. TWeapons are nice but most of them are useless in PVE/PVP.
I personally love this game because there is a lot of stuff to do so in other words it took me 2 week to complete but they bad thing I don't like is the multiplayer when I play with my friend and when I die we have collect flowers so you should be able to invite them so that all, so my point is must buy game.
This game is amazing! It got really good grapichs good mechanics and a really good level design! The game has some bad things but mostly its fun to play of course if you not angry its really fun i like it!
This game made me fall in love with gaming again. From the visuals to the music, the soundtrack, the enemy types, the combat, the weapons, the gameplay everything thing is top notch. Just a delightful experience all around.
Alright game but definitely does not deserve a 90 review , lack of story telling , way to harsh learning curve
One of the most beautiful things I played, presented to the open world in a magical way, not boring
I haven't felt this way about a game since I played world of warcraft burning crusades back in highschool. Getting lost in a world, the story the characters. Everything about this re-ignited a flame in gaming for me. Fromsoftware knocked it out the park once again. 10/10. Will be remembered as one of the games of the decade.
Third Person Action RPG perfection. Elden Ring is an absolute masterpiece. It just takes a little bit of patience to learn the ways of the combat in the Soulsborne games, then it becomes some of the best experience in all of gaming.
This game is a mass-marketing extravaganza. Between the game industry's self-serving promotional tactics and the rabid, frothing DS fanboys, this entire thing is a groaning sham. This game is mediocre for a DS game, let alone GOY! (Pant! Pant!). The game itself is just not that engaging, it feels hollow, weird and even punitive if you don't strictly follow the DS meta plan(s). However, the marketing and salivating is extraordinary. Nice job convincing everybody this title will cause them change their religious views.
There's a huge amount of Bosses that look amazing and creepy but the Gameplay & Inconsistency of the bosses gets a bit annoying overtime.
Entire game ruined by one boss fight. Game feels like you're cheesing every fight you're in. Lazy design
Elden Ring is a brand new game from the developers at FromSoftware. They continue with their soulslike formula but this time in an open world environment. It's hard to explain just how big this game is, but it took me about 100 hours to complete the game (main story + exploration of most of the areas) and I can safely say that I never got bored. Usually when a game has this big of a open world that usually means that I get really bored after a couple hours, because it's not hard to make a huge open world, it is however very hard and impressive to make this big of a open world game that is this sprawling with content throughout. It is incredible how FromSoftware managed to so seamlessly transition their more linear style of gameplay in to this incredible open world. There are many different areas you can explore that are very uniquely designed. This world is absolutely beautiful and so rich with content and lore that it never gets boring. The game doesn't hold your hand throughout the game like more of the modern open world games, if you see an area you can most likely go there, at your own risk of course. When it comes to souls games, the gameplay is of utmost importance, and I can confidently say that the gameplay is very solid. It is very similar to Dark Souls, so if you liked the gameplay from Dark Souls (especially Dark Souls 3) then there isn't much to complain about here. There are so many types of weapons, spells, armors and shields that it can sometimes feel a bit overwhelming but what I did was just stick to one build, but if you like a lot of variety then it can't get much better than this. There are a huge variety of enemies and bosses throughout this game. I thought that pretty much all the main bosses were really great, and a lot of them are just pure spectacle. However with the enemies and bosses also lies my one main issue with this game. I think the damage scaling in this game can sometimes be really bad. Some enemies (not bosses mind you) can have some insane moves that can one shot you, or take huge portion of your health, and it can be pretty frustrating. However the thing that kind of saves this, is that there is pretty much always a checkpoint somewhat nearby, so you don't have to travel immense distances just to return to the area where you died. Not much can be said about the story that isn't a spoiler, but I thought the story was very interesting, though you kind of need to make an effort to try and understand the story. It isn't handfed to you, you need to sometimes read item descriptions or talk to certain NPC's to be able to understand some things. But I think overall the story and lore of this game is very interesting, and I recommend taking a little time to read about it. All of this culminates into one of the best open world experiences I've had in a while. 9.5/10
An absolutely fantastic game!! The world is vast and full of stuff to explore. The addition of Torrent makes exploration much faster and easier. The lore and world building is great and the bosses are all amazing. It’s something you must play.
PS5 performance pales in comparison to the PC - not just in graphics but the performance to the point where it makes you take entirely different strategies to defeat bosses on the PS5. You don't have to take my word for it, there are no top players doing speed runs or challenge runs on PS5. And if you compare console videos to pc videos, you will see a noticeable improvement in graphics and framerate.
Possibly my favorite game from FROM SOFTWARE, the ultimate souls experience.
100% a 10/10 game don't listen to anyone **** everything. difficulty, graphics,gameplay everything
Graphics 10 Boss design 10 Difficulty 10 Gameplay 10 Open world 10 Buy the game now
exceptional game, exceptional future a game that deserves to be tested and enjoyed. The atmosphere, the music, the gameplay, the bosses, the open world... everything is perfect and with an appreciable difficulty that will not leave anyone indifferent
perfect boss design many weapon every weapon type is a new gameplay style deep and rich storyline OST is a legend and in the end another awesome game by from software
One of the greatest games ever made. I’ve beaten it 5 times and I can safely say that it has become my favorite game of all time.
Wall of Text Incoming: Elden Ring is a confusing game for me, because I truly struggled to give it a numerical rating. When I was enjoying the game it was some of the most fun I have had with a game in a while, but when I wasn't enjoying it, I wanted to drop it and never look back. I love the open world crafted here, its stunning to look at and exploring it is one of my favorite things to do. Sneaking into enemy camps, attacking a patrol lead by giants, discovering a cave with treasure to be taken, all fun and part of why I enjoy the game, some people say the game is empty, but I never found that to be the case. I find the bosses to be fair but challenging at least up until the late game when I feel they start to lean towards unfair, but there are plenty of people out there who will disagree with that sentiment. My issues come with the overall plot and progression of sidequests. I'm a longtime souls fan so I expect the story to be shrouded in a veil of mystery to be discovered by digging through item descriptions and what little dialogue there is. However, the story of Elden Ring feels like it barely even makes sense. Why does everyone want to kill me? Why am I immortal but the bosses aren't (when the whole premise is supposedly that no one can die in this world)? All questions you can google and find fans explain with the disclaimer that not even they know for sure. When not even basic questions like these can have an answer I start to lose any attachment to the world, my character, and any NPCs. This makes for a game the gets boring when I have had my fill of the combat. As for the sidequests, it bears noting that souls games have always been obtuse with how they handle them. You could always easily miss a game altering sidequest by simply opening the wrong door in previous games. I could somewhat let this slide in the mostly linear games of the past since that promoted proper exploration of the levels, but in an open world game, expecting players to search every nook and cranny to progress a sidequest before accidently locking themselves out of it by doing some arbitrary task is insane. You essentially cannot play this game without a guide if you actually want to complete any sidequests. It's just an outdated design meant for a different kind of game. Despite all that I still give it an 8 because of how much fun it is when you ignore the story and sidequests. Just wish I could give it a 10
Fps drops a lot on ps5 even of performance mode. The game is either way too hard (without spirit summons) or way too easy (with spirit summons). An easy fix would be to just increse the bosses health when using them. Except for that, the atmosphere and the exploration = amazing. The legacy dungeons felt a bit lacking and short but overall i would for sure recommend this game. A great first playthrough experience.
Great game but I wouldn’t say perfect or without flaw. Biggest upset is the repeat of bosses and the use of world adversaries as bosses.
From Software does it again. Great level, boss, sound, music and so much more design. Bravo. Well done and a serious GOTY candidate.
I can,t funish any games after Ghost o Tsushima an ofcourse after ... THE BIG, THE ONE and ... THE GREAT LAST OF US 2
Probably the greatest game of all time, whether it be the artistic direction, the story, the characters, the open world, the combat system, the bosses, the game design, the level design, the voice acting (and I could go on for a while) everything is far above pretty much anything done until now and it's combined in the same game. The seventhconsecutive masterpiece of the creative genius Hidetaka Miyazaki and the unmatched From Software.
This game is a dissapointment. The graphics are not bad but are not impressive either. Many areas and enemies look washed out or faded. The Sound design is OK. The combat controls feel sluggish which is a problem for a largely combat focused game. Some of the enemies and bosses are visually impressive, dragons look and move nice for example, but enemies are largely 1 dimensional 'lone wolf' puppets in regard to their AI and behaviours. They all hit hard, so you don't last long against them but they are not smart or sophisticated so how you deal with them isn't **** can sneak up and backstab many enemis pretty easily, other enemies in the area may notice (often not though), but either way you can just evade others until they lose interest in the 'commotion' and resume their normal movement patterns. The combat doesn't feel engaging, it feels like hack and slash against the weaker enemies and more like exploiting game mechanics and evasion against the strong ones. Most of the difficult enemies can be cheesed. You can often kite faster and larger enemies. Others you can use terrain obstructions against. The bosses can be much more difficult because they can be harder to cheese, are in a confined area, and they use their own (sometimes cheesy) attacks that are hard or imposible to avoid or counter. The game is hard, which is to be expected from this developer, but I would say a large amount of the difficulty comes from being thrown into 'the deep end' without any knowledge or help. None of the main systems (character building, leveling, weapon improvement, crafting, multiplayer options, etc) are explained in detail, meaning you have to resort to outside sources. The game does not do much to engage with you or draw you further into its story or other quests. There is nothing (like even a basic journal) to keep track of various quests, what you have started, what they entail, what was said, discoveries you made, or where you should look next. If you happen to talk to an NPC about a quest, you had better jot down the particulars of what is said because there is no way to review or recall it if you don't remember it later on. The world is huge but is mostly filled with hostiles and not much else. There are very few NPC's and merchants. Given the other lacking areas of the game's design, there is no compelling reason to explore it once novelty has worn off. This game feels more like a grind or a job than an adventure. It really isn't much fun and is more tedium and frustration than wonder, adventure, or enjoyment, especially if you aren't willing to spend substantial amounts of time consulting other sources of knowledge to get good at it. It left me with the feeling of a poorly translated Nintendo game. One where, since the translation is poor, nothing makes sense and you wander around trying various things and the only way you make progress is through trial and error and luck, or you get the game guide. Other difficult games that are great have excellent and responsive controls and give you plenty of knowledge on how to get better. The only thing they don't give you is skill. This game gives you nothing in those regards and doesn't even try to weave a compelling narrative to keep you playing or exploring. Given the numerous good reviews from so many reviewers, I expected much more from this game. I don't understand what they were thinking on this one.
Please fine tune your physics engine before releasing. No one will blame you if you put less content in it with higher quality.
I love this game for its game design and gameplay. It takes all the best of souls games (exploration, challenging, etc) and it’s a little ugly at times, but I am ok with that. It does look a bit last gen graphics, but I would take this over most other open word games just don’t compare. I have about 50 hours in and only through 2 main bosses and several sub bosses. I keep replaying old areas to find new things and secrets. Avoiding internet walkthroughs and really taking it all in. This is my GOAT. This is why I play video games. I have thousands of PlayStation hours on other games and a thousand Steam games played and this game is hands down my favorite. Update 270+ hours in and definitely GOTY and still likely one of the best games of all time.
To set up the stage - this is my first Soulsborne game, I invested over 220 hours in half a year span from which binge-played the first playthrough in 180 hours and played the game solely in the offline mode. With this said, the reuse of models and animations from older From Software games, naturally, did not bother me, though I concur with the other annoyance on the Internet - clumsy combat, clumsy menus, convoluted story with unsatisfactory ending (more about this later), technical issues, especially on launch. And this is not all - the age-old difficulty-balance issue is not magically solved in Elden Ring, you can get overpowered if you want to. Most of the weapons and spells are useless once you get your hands on some of the stronger ones. Some secondary bosses are recycled... I can go on...nevertheless... Elden Ring is a masterpiece. Breathtakingly beautiful world to explore, where every aspect marvelously comes together. An open world done right. I have to start with world design. The open world is huge in Elden Ring. While nowadays that's a derogatory term, that's not true in this case. Elden Ring, with its enormous size, still manages to feel dense and hand crafted. The world is beautiful, from lavish forests, to volcanic mountains, bloody swamps to dungeons and catacombs and more, it stays breathtakingly beautiful. The designers managed to do an exceptional job in serving this beauty, be it climbing a hill and running into a forest shaken by a wind, or doing a small curve on a narrow mountain path revealing a dazzling city resting on a mountain slope. And all of this is implemented with a convincing dynamic day and night cycle. Screenshots and trailers can't do justice to Elden Ring's beauty, even more so words. This needs to be experienced first-hand, also because you need to spend more time in the game to appreciate it. Whenever you have a high ground, the Lands Between open up in their full glory. Distant mountains, vast forests, cities, fortresses, all of that crowned with the Elden Tree in the middle, together form a fascinating, dangerous, living world. Whatever you see in the distance, can be visited, sometimes with some (significant) effort. And all of this is without any space-continuum shenanigans, an enormously big fortress that offers tens of hours of gameplay inside, with secrets in abundance, looks proportionally big from the outside. I don't want to go much into detail here, not to give up any of the joy of the exploration, but exploring is overly satisfying. And touching again on how hand crafted the game feels, it has a very practical use as well. Playing after a long pause it's very easy to remember every pathway and location, since they are that distinguishable. Quest design worthy of the open world. Elden Ring takes a fresh approach on quests: no checklists, no clear instructions, only some faint direction pointers. Upon your journey you encounter characters who might ask for help or even just share some vague hints during discussion. You might encounter the same character under some other circumstances depending on your prior interactions. This might drive completionists crazy, but also feels very natural. Quests are not boxes on the checklist to tick, but occasional interactions with NPCs who are on their own journeys and you never fully know what they are up to and what significance might they have in your own story. And talking about the story... You can blaze through the game relatively quickly and miss the lion's share of the lore and locations. The game has some cutscenes and they are of a very high quality, involving some amazing boss designs, but even for the main story, most of the information is scattered in casual discussions with NPCs and item descriptions(!), I should admit here, even after platinuming the game, I spent some hours on youtube to grasp the lore and storyline reasonably well, since I haven't put enough effort in analyzing all the hints and putting the pieces together. Gameplay with its merits. The game starts steeply, where fighting a single regular enemy is a challenge, not to mention some mini-bosses that casually roam the Lands Between as a testament to your weakness. Every new location, every new enemy sends the hurt rushing... But slowly, with character progression, you gain confidence as the game becomes more approachable. Yet, even with a fair number of ways of cheesing, Elden Ring, with its single difficulty mode, is still an adequately challenging game, so won't please the seekers of 'interactive storytelling'. In the end. It's dangerous to carelessly recommend the game, as a matter of fact Elden Ring did not please even some seasoned From Software fans, but the best advice here would be, to every gamer out there, just give it a try. You might hate the game, but that'll happen quickly. Or you'll fall in love with it, in which case, you'll be in for one of the most memorable journeys in your gaming life.
Dark souls 3 with open world. It seems like another one big DLC of Dark souls 3.
Its a good game, not the greatest game, or maybe its just not my thing. The game gets a little repetitive, and boring. People complained about the Breath of the Wild shrines, well these mini dungeons are even worse. Not to mention they keep using the same enemies over and over again. PS: I hate Malenia
It kills me inside to give this game an 8. I have been anticipating it since it was announced, it has been an unhealthy obsession. The open world made it way too much of a slog. Traversal is annoying, fall deaths from exploring are tedious, the sheer amount of things trying to kill you at all times when you just want to explore, and your inability to fast travel or even look at the map when enemies are around you (basically always). I really hope fromsoft doesn't make exclusively open world games going forward. A big factor in how much you will like this game comes down to whether or not you like using spirit ashes and/or relying on summons for co-op. The game is clearly balanced for using spirit ashes, so if you use them, the difficulty is pretty manageable (exploration with all the enemies around is still tedious). But some bosses are just plain unfun by how difficult they are without spirit ashes. I for one, am not a huge fan of them. I hate a lot of bosses in this game. I really hate the final boss most of all. On my second playthrough I got all the way to the last boss and never finished the game. THe game starts out really strong, so you're tempted to play again, but then you get to a point where you're like, oh yeah, it's no longer fun after this point, or do I really want to go into that dungeon again? What's the reward for sompleting it again? Is it really worth it. Most of the time it's not because the reward is another spirit ash.
The game is very good. My save crashed when i was 76 hours fo gameplay and i couldn t fix it. This is a shame. So many bugs and this is disrespectful
I love this game! It’s the best open world game I’ve played yet. My only disappointment is the graphics, textures and animation. Otherwise no game comes close to wild discoveries, build variety, and enemy variety. I endlessly found new areas and side quests.
Unfortunately not the hoped-for further development of Dark Souls, especially when it comes to balancing and the bosses. Dark Souls 3 was a masterpiece with its perfect bosses. Unfortunately, the open world is way too big, in the end I just wanted to get through the game and fight to the end, but there was always more and a new area. Less is sometimes more! The enemies and bosses are reused and recycled too often. The main bosses are also unbalanced with one shot deaths. Better a linear Dark Souls 4 than a new open world Elden Ring 2...
the game is one of the best games i’ve played in my entire career i love playing with moon veil sorry my english isn’t good enough
The game was made with such a poor engine, I think if From Software continue to use this kind of outdated engine for their next soul game, game reviewer would not be so kind.
I can't set less than 10 for this game because the amount of everything in game is so huge, so much work has been dome so it's 10/10 for sure. I've bet the game for 114 hours. 114 hours!!!! One hundred and fourteen hours! It's 10 time more than should be :) Or at least 5 times. It's too long, last 20 hours despite it was ending I played just to finish it. Some other drawbacks: repeatable bosses/mini-bosses - about 20-25 hours could be saved without repeatable bosses. The more realistic game name could be "Dark Souls 4". It's more like a sequel, not a whole new game. Honestly I think From Software must change(or significantly improve) game engine and change something because difference between Dark Souls 1 and Elden Ring is not that big. It's almost the same game with just different graphics. If FS next game will be made in the same way as Elden Ring I probably miss it because I don't think spending another 100 hours of my life playing the same mechanics will be the good choice. I have several other games in my playlist which I could finish instead of Elden Ring(114h): Stray(6h), Spider Man: Miles Morales (14h), RE: Village(15h), Alan Wake remastered(15h), Outer Worlds (30h), Sinking City (25h), Call of Cthulhu (10h). 7 (Seven) games with difference experience and without repeatable bosses.. Anyway I like Elden Ring - it's really one of the best games ever made. And they finally fixed hitboxes!!! But lore in BloodBorne is much better ;)
This game is a lot of fine when you understand how to play it. I get that might seem obvious but with this game you can very much make it as hard as you want it to be... i.e. you want to play on hard mode? Avoid all obviously op items/things. Want to make it easy? Use obiously op items. But you can also find a middle ground i.e. I avoided using magic but used the katana which has bleeding... I went were ever i wanted to go and played until i come across as boss that after a few tries, seemed impossible, so i went back and made sure i completed the whole previous area and the boss was then beatable.
Played it at release on PS5, got the Platinum in one month or so (playing slowly and steadily), but writing my thoughts just now. Elden Ring is a very good game, but not the masterpiece that the mainstream media made it look like. First, the lore. It's the same poor storytelling inherited from the Souls franchise, with very few NPCs and lore based on item descriptions. While this was never a problem with Dark Souls, this time they marketed a lot that partnership with GRRM, so I was expecting the best of the two worlds, and it never happened. It felt like a waste of potential. As an open world game, From did a soiid job but it did not set the bar higher in the genre. In fact, there are quite a few bugs that don't break the gameplay but harm the immersion. On that aspect (immersion), the first 10 hours or so are a huge WOW, but as the ending approaches the experience is already getting dull, with many bosses and sub-bosses repeating themselves needlessly. The final boss, by the way, was the most anti-climax enemy I've seen in a long time. The endgame is weak, there's little reason to go for the NG+. I actually enjoyed the experience overall, but I'd be lying if I said that I'll remember it for a long time. When the credits started rollling I was like "so, that was it?". Let's be fair: it's a must play, but still inferior to Sekiro. My problem with Elden Ring is not what it is, but what it could have been.
Very bad game. It called me maidenless. **** u man ur a crackhead no one likes u
great combat, great bosses, an overall fun game with very little flaws although the multiplayer could be improved
Amazing work. Its pure art. Superb mechanics, really good art design and incredible gameplay length... Weapons amazing, characters also. Almost perfect game.
Meh. The world, creatures and graphics look great but the gameplay is pretty bad. The economics are such that prices for weapons and leveling up rise so fast that you have to spend all your time repetitively defeating the same enemies, just to keep progressing. It’s not that it’s “hard”, it’s that the power of the weapons and your abilities just make it not possible to progress without massive grinding. So, after 60 hours it’s just not fun. Also there are tons of items you find for which there is no discernible use. I keep accumulating them, bit nowhere in any menus or at any merchants can i use them.
I have minor issues with this game but overall it is one of the best games ever made. A must play
It's great plain and simple it's been made more digestible for new players, starting off initially it will be tough even but they great thing is the game doesn't force you to go a certain way it's a choose your own adventure so taking your time will be rewarded is a boss is too hard leave and go somewhere else until you're strong enough. The game is beautiful and huge and full of content. The only real bad thing is slightly boring dungeons and repeat bosses but those are almost always optional and serve as a way for you too level up easily. With age and hindsight the lowest I could give this games is possibly a 9 I've packed in 80 hours in this game and I'm still not even done with the main story and there are multiple endings as well
Open World Dark Souls what's not to love? Such an amazing game holy crap. It's GOTY
The game is very good and beautiful as the scenery and there are several chapters or you can create your own character. The enemies and bosses are diverse, but there are negatives such as the insect and its large world and the complexity of assembly and the game is important for exploration, assembly and development and this is negative like assembly and development, but the game is worth buying. And the game is not suitable for those who do not like an open world Game rating 8.5
Stunning game in every aspect: gameplay, art direction, soundtrack, and lore. The world is massive, yet feels bespoke, with every corner holding new discoveries, rewarding curiosity, guts, and investigation. It will be hard to go back to normal video games after playing Elden Ring.
Elden ring is one of, if not the greatest game off all time. It reinvents what you expect from and open world game in the best way possible. There is an endless about of content from weapons to spells and much more. The world feels so alive and the addition of co op makes this game even better.
This game is massive. It took me 139 hours to finish one playthrough! Just for the scale, it gets 10/10. Since it delivers in all other areas as well - not to perfection, but good enough. For me, Bloodborne and Dark Souls 3 are better. I think the relation between the game, story, lore, and world-building sit tighter in the previous titles than here.
This game doesn’t have a story, has no purpose, no plot, no anything. It’s basically just a walking simulator with boring combat here and there. Most expensive unfinished tech demo I’ve ever played. Hopefully they stop making games after this pile of crap.
Fantastic game. The fake reviews on this are really sad. It's very shameful
Best game ever. Look, theres alot of people complaining about the difficulty and the world saying that its empty, while for me its the best open world full of things to do. There are lots of finals bosses and thinks two explore that you cant just give Elden Ring a bad review when you only played 3 hours. Give it time and learn the game. I remember i started enyoing it after 10 hours and now its my favorite game.
The sheer audacity to buy a soulslike FromSoftware game, yet somehow not expect it to be a soulslike FromSoftware game, sigh. This game is as close to a masterpiece as anything in recent years, a perfect combination between a soulslike and breath of the wild.
Lord of the Rings wishes it was as epic as Elden Ring. Such a fantastic game.
This score is a reflection of how it plays on ps5 not the game itself. I don't understand how I can play this on a series X and have no drama but can't play more than a few hours on ps5 and not get some glitches.
Never played in games souls like but this one was awsome. Easy and hard at the same time. Everyone should try it.
I love this game, it's really fun. Alot of build variety, tons of content, and alot of fan support.
Amazing game! One of the besti 've seen, really good. Soulsborne is in such a good place right now.
Honestly, the graphic are amazing but everything else is dull. It's not like elder scrolls where the story is gripping, quirky and charming. To be Frank, I found elden ring a bit boring and reparative. Yes the world it huge, but there's not huge amounts to do, no real side quests boring.
Granphic is terible in 2022 very bad story is understinable no points where to go combat crash gameplay crash everthing type same how another souls games just open world **** souls game ever made
it is a nine bc the exploraiton is kinda boring somtimes but otherwise it is a masterpice
"YOU DIED" a screen even the best of players will see 100 times within an hour play-through. Dark Souls was not like this....Returned and bought something else. If I wanted a video game that felt like a job I should be getting paid not the other way around.
I have been gaming since the early 90s and played a **** of games in my days, Elden ring is by far my best gaming experience, the scope of the world the sense of exploration and all the amazing boses is just out of this world.
Good game but lacks accessibility and the combat is basically the same as other souls games
There's nothing, absolutely nothing like Elden Ring. The Dark Souls series is its precursor, of course, but the size of the map, the atmosphere and the exploration are unparalelled. Whiners will whine. The only reason this game gets all this hate is because From Software games have become mainstream. More fans equals more haters, exactly like Metallica. If Metallica was much less popular, you wouldn't hear all that crap about Lars Ulrich. In all From Software games, there are bosses I can't beat, so I quit on them, simple as that. It never stopped me from adoring their games. Not perfect, but better than everything else on the market when it comes to fantasy settings. It's like playing the best Lord of the Rings game you could wish for.
Pure class, the best game From Software so far, for me personally nothing will be better then Bloodborne design but Elden Ring its like bigger game. GOTY 2022.
MALENIA, the blade of my ass is waaay too fast for a souls game. Take this scalet-rotted-winged anime biiiih back to Sekiro and announce an upcoming Sekiro DLC with her in it.
Great on all aspects. Clearly the magnum opus of FromSoftware. While not perfect, this is the best game so far in 2022.
Elden Ring is a masterpiece. Phenomenal world building with just enough pieces to fill in the cryptic lore and excellent replay value through all the possible builds, bosses and weapons.
Never have I played a game that is this absolutely colossal in scope and size. I was rather hesitant to pick up Elden Ring due to FromSoftware's infamous reputation for crafting diabolically challenging videogames, but after I heard all the praise that it recieved I just had to try **** it didn't disappoint. Just when you think you have discovered everything, the game surprises you with more. The gameplay; the world-building; the immersion; the lore; the exploration; everything in Elden Ring is just unprecedented in breadth, and unrivalled in ambition. And whilst it does fall flat in some areas (boss reskins and heavily reused assets being some of the major culprits), it was still a joy to play through, and one that I would highly recommend to new players wishing to try out the Soulsborne style.
Elden ring is truly special its a big games with a tonne a things to do but they make the world design so good that more you explore and advance in the game the better its become the art direction is truly stunning in elden ring a lot of time i just put the controller down and was blown away by how beautiful it was and the replayability is phenomenal with all style you can play this game will not be forgotten soon
First time giving a game 10/10 it's an absolute masterpiece and i'ts been a long time since I played a game this long and still not bored of it.
Great game to start with if you are looking to get into Souls-like games. Open world is vast and filled with enemies to fight.
nice game, but so easy. Please bandai namco, do harder. Game very interesting. if you have money buy this game
Amazing game. The legacy dungeons have the best level design so far out of all fromsoft games. The bosses also have a much bigger moveset variety.
If only I could get back my time and money wasted on this piece of **** Obscenely difficult gameplay ruins what could have been a half decent game. Most expensive Frisbee I've ever bought...
This is what i want just look at the map and world which fromsoftware made Lore and story of the game is 10 of 10 its what miyazaki and RRmartin writte
Elden Ring - Graphic 8/10 Gameplay 10/10 Story 9/10 Boss fights 9,5/10 Music 10/10
A masterclass of world building, must play! The combat is hard but with the open world this is the most accessible souls like ever.
What an incredible experience unseen before, easily my favorite game of all time. Masterpiece. Miyazaki is good.
Never played any dark souls game. Because I don't like them. But this is something different. It got me hooked. Insane open world. So much freedom.
Throughout my journey back through the lands between months later, I am slowly realizing this game somehow got MORE buggy. I'm actually shocked. How could a game with massive environmental clipping and bad balance, somehow get worse? Fromsoft finds a way. Not to mention, the input buffer and lag alone drops it down to a 6. It just does. On top of that, the game is still unbalanced. You cannot have a good time playing the game how you want. Is this an enjoyable experience? Is it well balanced? Can you actually rely on skill to beat it? Is it playable? Are the enemy AI coded well? Do they just turtle and spam attacks and have input reading that seems to be coded by a student fresh out of game school? The answers to all these questions make me second guess myself. Except the last one- The answer to that is yes. I have well over 300 hours in this game. Solod every boss (without bloodhounds step or OP skills) And because I know it so well, I really can't defend massive parts of it. Shame really. It's a 4/10 experience at the end of the day.
I'll just say one thing. Perfect. The 75-character limit pisses me off. I don't have much to say. Perfect.
Super overrated game when compared to the rest of the souls games. Open world hurt this game massively as it’s too big, boring, empty and repetitive.
It's an ultra-fun game if you're a fan of soul-type games. But I don't consider it to be a masterpiece, it's fun, challenging, but its story (as in all soul) doesn't convey anything, and when you finish it you end up with a feeling of emptiness.
Best game i have ever played. Difficult but rewarding. Open world made souls game even better than before
I have beaten every souls game prior to this one. I love the series, and I am happy with difficulty. But this game breaks the cardinal rule of the From Software design philosophy up until this point. In any previous game, when you lost, that loss would be fair, and something you could have seen coming, and worked your way around if you had been more tactical. That is the joy of the souls games. Improving. Not just getting stronger, but getting smarter. This game doesn't do that. It simply hates you. There are bosses that are literally invisible unless you have a specific torch from a vendor halfway across the world map. There are bosses that can kill you in a single hit, even if you have maximum health and the heaviest armor the game allows. There are enemies that will swarm you and take turns attacking you so that you are locked in a pattern of stuns from which you can't escape. There are enemies with their backs turned that are programmed to get up and charge you even if you are invisible. Previous games operated on the rule that if you lost, it had to be fair. You had to have done something wrong in order to fail. In this game, you lose simply because of a coin flip. Or because the game was programmed with a pit fall that you had no way to predict. Or even worse, that breaks the pre-established rules the game set up. This game breaks its own rules, and does it just to screw up the player. Elden Ring. Hates you.
I dont understand, why is everyone telling me this game is hard ??????.. its fell more like a casual game from "From Software" Game
Has to be a finalist for Game of The Year. Beautiful open world with plenty to do and great bosses that you can grind to beat. The best souls like game of all time. The challenge of the game is part of the fun. The weapons are amazing and the overall game is the best of the year so far.
Dark souls in a open world with Epic boss fights and great story! I’m probably going to replay the game again.
Quick background on me the reviewer, I tend to like single player games that is heavy on narrative the most. I also play a lot of racing games and use to play multiplayer games in my high school days but now that it's hard for me and my friends to find a good time to link up so now it’s more rare for me to get into a multiplayer game. Up to try any genre of games and sometimes I find something new that I didn't think I'd like. I own a PC (built by me), Xbox One X, Xbox Series X, PS3, PS4, PS5, and a Switch. I prefer Playstation due to their focus on narrative games. For scoring, I’ll be using the Gameinformer review scale and of coursed influenced by my personal opinions. (8)Very Good. Innovative, but perhaps not the right choice for everyone. This score indicates that there are many good things to be had, but arguably so. So I have tried to play Dark Souls Two, and Dark Souls Three but didn't get too far. I would lose interest in the Story because you had to hunt for the information. I did beat Bloodborne though even though you had to hunt for the story in that one too. I enjoyed the combat more in Bloodborne which is probably why I ended up finishing it. I ended up trying Elden Rings since people where saying they were changing up the formula and making it more open and exploratory. I still dislike hunting for the story and I felt like the open world hurt the series more than there previous formula. I enjoyed figuring out a zone and clearing it in the past games and just felt clueless on what I'm suppose to do in this game. I would YouTube it to figure out the story expecting more only to be disappointed. I've learned that this just isn't one of my genre of games. I want to experience a story and not go on a treasure hunt. I see why others like it but it's not for me.
The game is absolutely great. Open world experience, amount of content , bosses, difficulty , combat , graphics all of them are perfect. But the caves , dungeons, catacombs are just a copy paste. Even the bosses in there are the same. If they weren't boring I would give a 10
The game is simply too difficult mid game. Would be much better if more accessible.
These are some of my thoughts as someone who doesn’t play a lot of games. When I first started I really did not like this. I’m a very “casual gamer” who is used to narrative heavy games like RDR2, AC Valhalla, Horizon, etc. I thought “Where’s my quest log? What am I supposed to do? Why is the first boss I face this gigantic sentinel?” It wasn’t until I realized “Hey dummy, just run past the sentinel. Go explore and find out what you’re supposed to do” that I really started to appreciate this game. There’s very little hand holding here. At first I felt this was to the games detriment however after figuring out some of the mechanics and focusing on leveling up my build properly (I was trying to put runes into a little bit of everything at the beginning) I started to appreciate how special this game is. It’s kind of like putting together a puzzle without a reference picture. Yeah it’ll be challenging but give it time, find the corner pieces and start making the boarder. I’m about 35 hours into the game and am not close to being done. However as the game progresses my enjoyment has continued to increase. The games bosses can be tough but fair. And if you can’t beat them right away go and get more runes to level up. From what I have gathered there’s no penalty to holding off on fighting bosses. I’ve had a great time playing Elden Ring. Overall I’d say 9/10 is a fair assessment. It is close to a 10/10 however I do think the developers could have added a journal or log of some kind for all of the little side quests and NPCs you meet. There’s a ton and I found it super easy to forget about quest lines. You can use map markers but NPCs will bounce around the map sometimes. If you struggled at the beginning of this game like me I’d say go back and have another try. Really commit to a specific build. Find a weapon you really like and upgrade it early. If you’re stuck or don’t know where to start seek out the community online! There’s a ton of great resources out there that are designed to help newcomers like us.
Having never beaten a souls like game before, I can proudly say I beat this one and enjoyed every minute of it. A great introduction to the souls like genre without sacrificing the infamous difficulty level. I would reccomend this to anyone looking for a challenge and satisfaction overcoming the many paths you will take.
Really does feel like a combination of the games FromSoft has been working on up to this point, and it really takes the best inspiration from them.
I have found the frame rate and graphics perfectly acceptable in this game. The desire to explore this beautifully rendered open world is quite strong. However, it stops there. I know a lot of players truly love the mechanics of figuring out how to defeat a tough boss, and this game will surely hit the mark for them. For me, and those that really enjoy exploring an open world with some tension lingering to make the exploration process more alluring. This game crushes that joy of exploration. Explore a little, encounter a mob that takes a long, repetitive effort to defeat, explore a little more, then spend a long tine trying to defeat the next mob. It saps all the fun and joy out of exploration. I have purchased From After playing this game for awhile, I am revising my score from a 3, to a 10. It took me awhile to get the hang of character development and advancement … but once I did, Elden Ring has quickly become my favorite game of all times. The joy of exploration and experiencing how the plot unfolds is totally immersive. Love it.
Memory game, boring open world, with repetitive gameplay outdated graphics and forced open world. Recycled bosses with more dodging than attacking
Best game ever i have played ...even god of war series or the last god of war 2018 will have no chance against elden ring
Literally helped me feel like I could handle anything life throws at me, only reason it’s not a 10 is the co-op isn’t the most well designed thing I’ve seen, but other than that it’s almost perfect
Elden Ring might go down as one of the most ambitious games of the decades. Taking the already successful dark souls formula and expanding it to such a large scale was perhaps the riskiest move fromsoft could have attempted, however, it really paid off. Not only is the map about 5 times bigger than anyone imagined, it also is filled with enough content to justify the scale. The combat is taken and slightly refined from the previous fromsoft games, making it smooth and engaging. The bosses in this game rival some of the best from the dark souls 3 and bloodborne dlcs, each with their own unique dynamics and fighting styles. The game starts out so strongly and just continues to improve the farther you get in. There is always something off the beaten path, whether it be a cave or something else, which makes sidetracking and exploring worthwhile. The legacy dungeons as well are finely constructed and flow well with the rest of the open world, providing a nice balance between the two sections. While there are a few complaints to be levied at the game, such as certain bosses being bs or certain sections which just aren't fun, but ultimately these pale in comparison to the quality of the rest of the game. The main problem that I do think is apparent in the game is its lack of replayability. While this isn't a problem for most people since they won't play the game beyond their first time, for those who want to play again they'll likely notice that the game doesn't hold as much magic. This isn't to say it is not great, the legacy dungeons and the bosses are still a lot of fun on repeat runs but the traveling and the side content grows stale the second time around. However, this still in my opinion doesn't take away the fact that fromsoft created perhaps the best open-world game of all time and something which may change the industry for years to come. Elden ring should serve as an example for developers just what they can do if they are passionate about their craft and are dedicated first and foremost to creating an interesting experience for the players
I've been gaming for 30+ years and this is easily a Top 10 experience. I only wish I could play it again for the first time.
This is the worst game I've ever played in my life. Everything about this piece of **** **** and it is unplayable. Selling this garbage should be considered an assault and the developers should face lifetime in the worst prison. You can compare this game with eating glass and drinking lemon juice with it. From Software is the worst developer on this planet and they have to be stopped.
Oh but you see the game is actually a 0/10 because the frame rate in this massive open world game drops once every few hours. Truly atrocious Fromsoft.
For my taste this is the best game I played so far. The combat and character development alone is enough to last for 100+ hours of tense experiences. - Spells and weapon moveset feel refreshing each time you try something new. - The gloomy mood of the game - I enjoy the indirect narative - The voice acting is wonderful - Soundtrack fits the situation you are in all in all a nice experience Still there are a few thinks I could imagine to be better: - few encounters were just "more" enemies which from time to time means you have to be lucky that they do not chain attack and you can find an opening - Bosses were recycled a bit too soon - I think it could look better on PS5
Regional language lock - why? Bought the game in Japan. It is locked to Japanese so I can't play it properly and have been refused a refund. Why do this, all the English assets exist and I've bought multiple games in Japan and been able to change the language. Terrible practice
Elden ring is nothing short of a masterpiece. It combines all of the great things from all of their other games in one holy concoction. The game looks absolutely beautiful, and no 2 places are the same. It has some of the most difficult, but most fun boss fights in all of gaming. There is hundreds of hours worth of content in this game.
Won't be surprised if this is deleted by metacredit. Game community is TOXIC. If you can get into it then it's ight but it does lack. Don't expect to just play with friends online, materials are required and online completely resets on open world requiring a new online summon. The second you're online you're able too be invaded and repeatedly by the same no life people who have already beaten the game. (Who usually are the ones claiming "get good" or "learn how too play" while targeting new players) They say this Souls game is easy for newcomers yet keeps the same toxicity that pushes newcomers from the series.
I HATED this game for the first week and just about traded it a few times. I was basically crap at it. I was urged by a friend to stick with it. Read up on it, got some tips on how to stay alive. I have never been so glad I stuck with a game, once you get properly into this game it’s hard to put down. I finished the game a few days ago and got the platinum trophy after 115 hours hardest I’ve had to work to get a platinum ever. I get some of the negative reviews but those will be from folk who gave up with the game. No one who has put a lot of time into this game could call it a bad game because it’s just not and probably will be GOTY 2022 unless God of War is even better somehow . This is the first souls type game I’ve spent time playing and I’ll probably give Demon Souls another go now that I understand a bit more about how to play them. Best advice is stick with it as this game 100% grows on you and gets under your skin!
This game surpassed all expectations for this Fromsoftware fan. For me, it has taken the top spot for action RPGs from Skyrim, which is extremely high praise from someone who played that game for a decade. I was astonished by the amount of content in the game, and with the amazing combat system which is now a trademark of Fromsoftware, it is easily my favorite action RPG of all time.
The game of the decade? Certainly. Why ? The call of adventure in the face of a world that speaks only with its ruins and its fragments of stories. A game where the characters are not generic and a game that does not seek to please everyone but only those who love video games as a whole.
First of all Elden Ring was an amazing experience for me it's absoluetely a work of art. My gameplay has took 150 hours and I have finished the game 2 two times and I can say, it was breathtaking firstly I'll talk about gameplay and open world as a open world player I loved this world it provides to gamers a dead world exactly opposite of rdr2. It does not have any dull open world activities or side misions like all ubisoft games. Just rotten and dead open world.Moreover it is surrended by many exciting mysteries also until 70 hours it does not repeat itself. And every mysterious place in this game have a worthy reward at the end. As a result it lures your exploration desire.Another important thing about this game is rpg **** can express yourself in every way for instance if you want to create a paladin of erdtree you can or a ice mage. In my opinion every item in this game has been created very smoothly and cool I spent my 10 hours to find every outfit. Final important point about this game is boss designs and design of open world first of all this game has many bosses some of them is similar but others is designed very marvelous as melenia she is one of the hardest boss in the game and I love her design and splash art if I mention difficulty of bosses. Very few of them is pretty hard others have very understandable patterns and not diffucult to find **** most important thing for me is the world design this game gived me admiration every time ı stepped into another place.First time I went to capital(an area ın game)ı sat down and watched the sight. As a result I took 100 pictures untill the end and every of them is a work of art I loved **** It is time to talk about cons. In my opinion side missions questlines in this game is very hard to solve ı could've never done those if I hadn't searched on youtube. another thing is memorability of bosses let me explain. In sekiro I fought with well designed bosses like second form of owl or the last boss and every of them have left an unforgottable mark on me but elden ring couldnt have done that ( except malenia my love) All in all I recommend this game to every gamer especially who wants to starts souls games.
Everything about this game is awesome. I explored pretty much every inch of the map and was never bored. The closest to a complaint that I may have is that some bosses are reused though the reused bosses are totally optional so it isn't really a big complaint!
When I first played Elden Ring, I was scared that it would be too hard or I wouldn't feel the vibe of this game. But after 230 Hours and 2 Playthroughs I can say: Elden Ring is a Masterpiece. I loved the unique boss and enemy design, the fantastic open world , the mythical lore and basically everything about this game. Is it perfect? No, but its goddamn close
Elden Ring is an entry in the catalogue of From Software of extremes. I felt immense joy discovering new zones. I felt excitement at new weapons and spells and armor and talismans. I felt disappointment at recycled enemies and dungeons. I felt absolute dread at the forward directions of games they're going to release at many of the boss fights. As such Elden Ring has to have some of the lowest low points of any souls game, even lower than pre-SOFTS DS2. I've played these games since Dark Souls 1, and played every entry, and I'm confident in saying its the worst entry. This comes about not because the game is bad overall, but because where the game is bad it's atrocious. positives of the game: the open world is gorgeous and huge, the ashes of war system is brilliant and adds a great deal of variety, the art direction has never been better only being out by bloodborne in my opinion, the story feels more present and well written, there is a lot of stuff to do, inclusion of duplicating remembrances is convenient, bell bearings are also super convenient, theres more emphasis on elucidating some of the games more opaque features than in previous games negatives of the game: endgame bosses don't feel like they've been playtested, poor balancing of many things like endgame areas, dungeons outside of the legacy dungeons feel very hastily thrown together and cut and paste, horseback mechanics (which were a big part of the marketing) feel like an afterthought that was glued on after most of the game, drop rates are very abysmally low , spirit ashes don't feel like they were well balanced, platforming still feels like an afterthought, graphical performance leaves something to be desired, the tediousness of some side dungeons make them super easy to skip on subsequent playthroughs, there's very little incentive to collect great runes because they offer nothing if you don't use a rune arc (despite the fact that the item description misleads the player into thinking it does), enemy variety plummets significantly after the capital, item crafting seems half thought out and becomes irrelevant late game, many enemies feel like they were designed with sekiro in mind but were just ported into elden ring, still glitchy in areas that should have been ironed out by now Elden Ring is basically Dark Souls 4, for better and for worse, with every step forward in design there seem to be two steps back, for a game described as being more RPG oriented and more open world it feels like much of it is still oriented very much around the combat, which in itself isn't bad, but even the combat has changed for the worse. ultimately many promises were brought with the game and some of them just were not fulfilled. an open world of untold proportions was promised, and for the first three zones it is, but the late game areas become increasingly empty and bland, the horse combat was promised to be new and fun but it seems so poorly optimized its hard to imagine it wasn't just tacked on at the end. Difficulty is incredibly schizophrenic. Boss fights in the late game seem poorly designed and become less challenging battles and more of tests of patience for when their year long combos will end. all in all more of the same and different in the worst ways. A good game marred with incredibly low lows, but a good game for people who are more about the souls-like brand. an incredibly polarized game for an incredibly polarized age. TLDR: not the worst game in the world, not the best
By far the worst souls game ever made, the open world is extremely boring and full of copy+paste content. There is no fun way to traverse the open world. Boss fights are low quality and again a lot of them are copy+paste, I am talking about big story bosses that get shamelessly reused! It shows that FromSoftware didn't have enough time to develop this game properly. The boring empty open world is filled with wannabe pokemon summons called spirit ashe summons, you like collecting pokemons in your souls games? I don't. There is no meaningful reward, the game is too big for its own good, next time provide less quantity and more QUALITY, like previous souls games.
The only possible critique is recycling bosses but a lot of games do it and I don’t mind if they’re fun to fight.
It's a masterpiece. The best game all over i played so far. DS in an open world, what can be better? Read the negative reviews, and looked at the games these people prefer, it's sad that the average gamer is so lazy these days. They prefer FILMS, beautiful, great, but still films (like Last of Us), not games.. Linear and corridor where u are lead by hand and with respawns at the same place u failed... Very sad.
It's definitely not for everyone... It's a challenging game but let's be honest, you'll spend more time frustrated than actually enjoying it. I get a lot of players want a challenge whereas filthy casuals ,like me, who are just looking for a good time without the worries of life will feel like it's not worth their time. I wanted more story out of this world, more depth... I did not found joy in it. This is obviously my very unpopular opinion but if you think this game is for everyone... I'm sorry ... It's not!
when soulslike and open-world come together, it gives us WOW!!!! Guess it may highly probably win game of year this year.
Very good in parts, some amazing bosses, but might be too big if you are like me and want to find and do everything.
I don't want to start like many people by saying that I'm a veteran of the "Souls" games, but I am. I bought this game only when I had the time to really enjoy it. After a first few hours a bit stressful in which you get the mechanics the game became a delight, just what everyone says. But this relationship was broken after 70 hours, when you reach the final stretch of the game. That friend you think you know changes and shows his true nature. The game gives way to despair with enemies and areas completely unbalanced. No matter if you have gone slowly and exploring, as in my case, you are not able to defeat any boss without throwing away hours. Sickening stuff. The game is in its final stretch completely unbalanced. Unless you play with a specific class and build it is impossible to advance naturally. What's worse, you stop caring about the story and stop appreciating its amazing design. A pity after all those good times I had at the beginning. It's impossible for me to recommend such a thing to anyone. Have all those who call it game of the year really passed the game?
Fromsoftwares Magnum Opus This is stunning. From a map that is unlike you ever seen to challenging and fun enemys. A great story that is worth exploring and a fantastic soundtrack. There are so many weapons so you can change your style depending on what you prefer. Not just the best game of the year but also one of the best of all time.
One of the best games I've ever played You must try this masterpiece And remember this game is so hard
Best game I have played on PS5 so far. Whether this is your first or latest soulsborne title do not miss this masterpiece.
Inconsitent progress at middgame, some builds are useless and you can tank the hits
Great game , my first "souls game" really beautiful. I don't know the other souls game but this was really worth it
The scope of this game is off the hook! Brutal and fun, just as I expected from this developer.
one of the best games that i have ever played but sthings like camera vs big enemies or charectetrs face design and graphic do not allow me to give thia game 10/10! conpletley worth it to play even you are not a fromsoftware fan like me!
The best soul game in all time The best game in terms of maps The most beautiful map I have ever seen The land area is 79 square kilometers without any wasted space The most complete and exciting world and map that I have played among all the games in the world Very high variety in all things literally in everything in weapons and armor and all items and bosses and mini-bosses and enemies and in general everything A very diverse and artistically beautiful map Dialogues and unique and super epic story Many users do not know the value of this work of art. This work is considered a revolution in the video game industry and it is the creator of a new style of Souls games, which is a combination of Souls, dark fantasy, and open world, or rpg. I can't really say what else to describe this masterpiece. I can say with certainty that I have played at least 80% of all the games in the gaming world that have been released for PC and PS, and among all of them, I have never seen anything like this, even in Red. Dead Redemption 2, GTAV, Witcher 3, and Horizon, which we all know are among the best in the open world and have a lot of graphics and art in terms of the map and game world, I think this game could have gotten a higher score from the critics if it had better graphics. Because the critics have always proven that they value games with high graphics even if they are not good games and they magnify them for no reason, and this is exactly the only problem with this game. Besides all the beauties of this game, there is only one problem. It is also thisLike the story games that I don't want to name and they don't have a long and interesting story and only focus on their graphics, it couldn't focus only on the graphics, the only problem with this game is that it couldn't raise the graphics like the other graphic games of this generation. I think he is right because all the graphic games of the new generation, which I won't name because of their fans, used copies and everywhere in the game world is like this, but Alden Ring has put a new adventure in all the points of the game and He made the whole game world with high details, he didn't just copy a plain or forest or the previous area and change its details a little and call the game open world, like many open world games that do exactly the same thing and have no content. There is no goodness in their world, and this is something that the creators of Elden Ring have focused on instead of giving gamers a garbage world with only high graphics. And in the end, I would like to thank all those who worked hard to make this work of art
For me it is the best game because the epic boss fights and the huge amount of weapons.
This is the ultimate version of Dark Souls thanks to its vast and gigantic open world.
A game I highly recommend which truly delivers on AAA promises in an actually meaningful way like an exciting and expansive open-world, meaningful replayability, and a truly intriguing story which remains new and deeply interconnected with the world itself thanks to the love and attention from FromSoftware. The only big downside is the PvP aspect of the game which seems neglected. A truly deserved victory for FromSoft which will hopefully bring more attention from the mainstream to their other masterpieces.
I like it but not the best for me. not every player can playing like sousborne
This game is absolute perfection. You even can’t be compare to anything really. This game has it all: beautiful esthetics, story immersion, gigantic world and the most variety that I’ve seen in environment, weapons, game styles, boss battles and normal mobs. In my opinion the best RPG ever created.
For those who love to be immersed in a beautiful game design, somber atmosphere with epic boss battles, Please don't miss this masterpiece. I personally love environment story telling type of games. It might arguably be the easiest Souls game (in my humble opinion) but as a result, it's an excellent entry for starters in the From software formula. I can however understand the frustration of casual gamers, this kind of game is not for everyone. it requires the pleasure of persevering, the pleasure of learning and improving yourself through the struggle and the unknown. A "great" game can gather most people's opinion, but a "masterpiece" can sometime divide. I will conclude by saying this. This game has so mush love put into it, it has a soul... and the emotion you feel as you struggle in this world will give you one of the most satisfying feeling you will ever have in a video game after succeeding. That's what I want a game to be, that's what I call Art. Thanks to the team of From Software, they have done something special and unique.
Gameplay mechanics are fun and addictive than ever. Story is excellent, you can follow the story even if you don't read item description.
True to Dark Souls lineage but with more exploration. Doesn't have the highest top of the line graphics, but they're still good and the art direction is excellent. Most bosses are difficult but fair, although a few don't quite follow the same rules as the player. Best game I've played in a while.
Best game ever and I don’t know but is good game oavsisbsjdjskusisvsszssyhud
Awesome. The best open world ever!! The best souls ever!! The most beatiful World ever.
more souls like games pls ( ˘ ³˘). I'm replaying the game for the fourth time, and still find something new and interesting. Amazing adventure (✷‿✷)
Best open world in the historie of gaming , it's the perfect examplw of an open world game
Simply lovely! Beautiful, huge, and just gets bigger and bigger. All kinds of armor and weapons to customize your character however you like. One of the greatest games ever made. BELIEVE THE HYPE.
incapable of human description that does justice to how good this game is. if you were to picture triumph, perfection, and perseverance fusing into one concept, it would only represent a fraction of Elden Ring’s majesty.
It’s the first souls game i have ever played, and it’s very good. It makes me feel independent from constant reminders of quests. The bosses makes me feel free to level up before beating them rather than rushing and miserably failing them again and again. It’s the only game that has made me glued to the screen for months, and still somehow make me feel like i’m getting better although i’m over 200 levels. It’s one of my favorite games.
I love this game, I would even go as far as calling it the best fromsoft game, even more than bloodborne, I'm curious to see how they're going to implement this new formula in future titles, maybe an open world bloodborne? I don't know but this game was awesome
Best game ever! I'm too sleep deprived to write any deep thoughts except the fact that this game got me through some of the roughest months of my entire life.
While I enjoyed the game, it’s graphics are outdated and it gets repetitive very fast. I also can’t say that it really has any replay ability.
Genuine masterpiece. Not for everyone of course, the negative reviews are clearly either people that didn't play it long enough to get a true feel or people that gave up because of the difficulty and are conveniently blaming other things for the reason they dislike it. Soulsborne style game in a gorgeous open world, with amazing boss fights, a ton of lore to read through and understand, lot of playstyles, etc.
The best game I've played in years. You can feel the freedom as you explore the vast world. Combat is flawless! 1000 / 1000.
I always avoid soul's like games because I hate to get stressed playing but since sekiro I started to love these games. Elden ring is marvelous, great storytelling, design and soundtrack. The difficult is not a thing since you can go to another places to strength your character and go back to that boss to kick his ass. I just miss the possibility to reset the weapon stats to strength another.
This is it, i'm finally have to admit to myself these games just aren't for me, I just don't enjoy it, let hype get me but this will be the last time.
Open world that isn't dead, full of different enemies and bossess, sure, some are repited, but still, there is a huge variety of bosses, each one with different mechanics that you have to adapt to. Full of cool NPC's and amazing quest lines. The gamimg disign is great overall. Full of memoral bosses anda landscapes. Defnletly worth checking out.
the best game, if you play with your friends it have fun. but some bosses play by your nerv!
It's just not for me. Couldn't even play it. Really this game is designed for people that have played and already like From Soft games. The designers really didn't care about any other gamer demographic. This didn't surprise me tho. I had bought Sekiro day one ready to love that game and had to sell it after not being able to parry hardly at all. So this time I knew to not buy Elden Ring and instead try playing a copy a friend of mine bought. Really glad I didn't get it. To make matters worse, the fan base tends to attract really toxic behavior. Say anything about struggling to learn or play the game or it's design and you get a plethora of toxic attacks. That's not fun. That's not what gaming is about in my opinion. Be warned
Expat in Asia, ENG language is not available. WTF ?! This is outrageous. Just add it.
Way too big and boss quality varies wildly. Crypt dungeons are clearly from soft trolling. Most later game bosses are just poorly done.
Such an amazing game, my only advice is don't buy it if you have exams coming up because it's **** addicting.
Played this on PS5 on release give this game a 9.7/10 have played most FromSoftware games Beautiful Legendary Incredible
As someone that has never played the FromSoftware game, I was really surprised by how engaging this game is from the very start. The gameplay is great and while some bosses/mobs are being reused I have never felt like I have to do something again. The graphics could be a little better but the world is pretty amazing and most of the time I was surprised by how beautiful and unique each place is. While you can't change the difficulty you can still use certain things to make it easier (use broken builds/spells, use ashes or even call someone for help). This is the first single-player game that I have put 100hours+ into so it says something. Unlike other games, the sidequests (if you can call them that) are really unique (and long) and actually make an impact on the ending. There was always something to do in that game for me and it was a great adventure. I recommend this game to anyone. That being said that are two things that lower the rating for me: 1. Effort that they have put into Ending(s) (cinematics etc) is very minimal. After 100 hours of gameplay, I would expect something more than 20-second video that doesn't show basically anything. Yes, I could imagine what was the outcome but still, this is a very easy thing to fix. That's probably because most endings reuse other cinematics. It seems like they just didn't care about ending presentation, 2. While the sidequests and "main" quest are great the lack of any tracker (or even something that saves the dialogues so you can check what they have said) really lowers the experience. How am I supposed to understand (especially at the beginning) where some NPC will go or where I should go if I have never visited the place before. It's not like you will be at that place soon, it can take hours to land in the place where NPC is. That's the case if they tell you where they are, sometimes they just relocate without telling you. What really struck me in all of that is that some questlines can be broken if you progress too far in another one - so not only do you have no idea where to go you also might go in the wrong direction and ruin some questline. If you wish to experience all questlines you basically have to check on the phone where NPC will be and what NOT TO DO in order to not break them. That really lowers the experience. 3. Close to the endgame it seems like FromSoftware didn't know what to do with normal enemies so they just increased their health and damage output and called it a day. I don't mind strong enemies but that just seemed random. I went from one place to another (literally next to each other) and the difficulty increased by like 300%.
Elden Ring is really a wonderful game The small problems of the game, such as the performance is not good, some boss fights are very cheap, very easy, the open world of the game is very empty, there is not much to do, the music is good, but it is not a masterpiece like blood borne
Solid 8, love the game is fun and challenging. It can get frustrating and anxiety triggering at the beginning but the more you play it it gets better. For new comers the mechanics are not user friendly, but nothing impossible to get if you actually keep playing the game. Graphics are pretty and the story is great. I am playing in quality and haven’t have any issue with frame rate. Only real complaint might be the fact that there is not a quest log, and by this I mean like a notebook or a diary, not a quest finder. There are a lot of quests and NPC interactions that are easily missable for the Nate fact that you forgot about the quest, soy you might end up reaching some place and killing the boss only to much later discover that you wrecked a quest haha. Also a couple more cinematics would not hurt. Other than that, awesome game.
Ok, much to my chagrin, I must revise my review since the first review was written in a fit of illogical rage after being shocked by how different this game is from everything else, especially in terms of difficulty. Days after my first review, I decided to really give this game a chance, and you know what? It became one of my favorite games of all time. The sheer vastness of this game has no compare. I won't go on about it, but the fact that my opinion completely flipped is truly remarkable. I'm glad to be alive to experience this masterpiece first-hand.
Elden Ring is a masterpiece. It has one of the largest and grandest open worlds I have ever seen in a video game and it is a joy to explore. There is so much content in this game that it will take hours upon hours to fully explore and see everything. The game rewards players for exploring and going off the main path. The boss design is incredible as well. The only slightly negative thing I can say about this game are a few technical issues but they can be overlooked. Elden Ring delivers an amazing experience and I'm glad I was able to be a part of it.
Literally probably one of the most worst games ever!!!!1!1!!1 I don't even know how u loser people even play dis game!@!!@
It's a sad state of affairs if this is what apparently passes for a masterpiece. It's just a sandbox game where you wander aimlessly around. If you are not watching the mandatory 100 YouTube videos that let you make sense of this mess ****, then you have very little chance to complete any quest at all. And that also goes for the story, which by the way is the dumbest **** I have ever heard. A story where you would have to collect tax from Marika would make more sense than this mess. The bar is now so low, that an OK game at best is hailed as a masterpiece. Tragic.
Gameplay is amazingly fun and addicting. As to be expected from a souls like, it is also hard to master. The numbers, values, amount of items and stats can be confusing at times, especially for souls like newcomers, but that's nothing some youtube tutorials and guides can't fix.
0. I have the game disc, waiting half a day for it to install and update - and the only language it displays is Chinese. I don't read chinese. Aimlessly clicking through the menus offers no way to change the language, the "Change the system language" tip doesn't help because my system is already set to English, and from articles on Reddit it looks like this problem has been happening since release and hasn't been fixed yet.
Dark Souls 4, and lord of open world games. Enormous. It took me longer than Skyrim, Witcher 3, or AC: Valhalla including all of the DLC for those games. The time spent in Elden Ring was also of a much higher quality, filled with personalized dungeons and difficult combat, whereas other giant open-world games contain a lot of cookie cutter dungeons, repetitive missions, and tedious action sequences. My biggest problem with most open-world games is that the combat becomes face-roll after the first 1/2 of the game. Although not perfect, Elden Ring's combat balance is far more tuned, and even at the very end, the player will encounter the most difficult challenges in the game. There are some annoyances. Portals that can teleport you to other side of map. Once was cute. After that It became obnoxious. The game is almost too much. Too much Dark Souls if that is possible. FromSoft threw in the kitchen sink with this one.
OH Boy. After 200 hours I finished 100% of the game. My English is not enough good for describe my experience. After ER life is meaningless. How can people give this game under 10 point??? Amazing discovery system. Amazing boss fights. Everything is amazing
One of my favorite games, however, it's not a perfect game. Not the best graphics, repeated enemies, a LOT of bosses taken from normal enemies (not surprised if an ant is a boss) and because of that main bosses don't feel unique, BAD, BAD, VERY BAD dual bosses (twin gargoyle? wtf, if you don't know what to put as a boss, don't put anything), typical way from a "souls game" to tell a story (literally you must watch a youtube video to understand tf is going on, even with the damn names) and last but not least, the same "dark souls" combat, come on, no sekiro's deflect? or instead of a roll a "bloodborne dash"? the same battle system, is this a dark souls 3 mod? and the punchline is the failed stealth design, i like that you can crouch but man, stealth is useless. Anyways there it goes my goty, anything else it's just perfect LOL.
30 hours in and be sure I'm not letting go of this game until I have done every quests, find all items and killed all bosses. This game is awesome ! Only complaints (and they are minor ones): Npcs are somewhat non-elaborate, static and soft. There isn't much life or actions by them so far maybe it will change late game but I doubt it. Some enemy attacks, Bosses or traps are linked to what button you press, making the action predictable and loosing immersion. Looks like you are puppeteering the target with the controller... Why every soul like game must make the aiming/zoom mechanics of archery so old-school ? I know there is lots of different looking area in this game but some assets in large open portions of the same landscapes are copy-past like buildings, pillars and irregularities in the surroundings. Everything else is great. This game deserves its reputation. I hope every other companies out there take note and KILL their stupid compass and maps showing everything like your a newborn needing to be fed and learns what a real open world should be like. Its about mysteries, discovery, danger and the unknown. Bravo!
Please stop asking for difficulty sliders, the entire point of Soulsborne games is to be difficult. I’ve spent 200+ hours on each of my saves and the game never gets old because of the unique challenges presented by each boss and new area.
Pros: + FromSoftware standard quality + Vast lore + Vast content + Replayability + Too many possibilities Cons: - Could be easily exploitable - Could be overwhelming ____ Full review: ****/2022/07/07/elden-ring/
As you can see, the game is being bombed with bad reviews, do not trust them. Elden Ring is one of the most carefully designed games in the last years, especially in level design and mechanics. It obviously follows its predecessors Souls games but refines every aspect of it, combat is more dynamic and have plenty of new mechanics, it is not an R1 smasher anymore, it have the biggest variety of abilities and spells, history is intricated, gameplay challenging at any time, and the map is huge. After 60 hours of gameplay, I am still being impressed of the size, the locations, its atmosphere and how small they make me feel. It is, a game with an initial steep learning curve, and give you little info and nowhere to check it. If you have a quest, you need to remember it, you wont have a HUD telling you everything to do, just like real life. It is challenging and it demands you to die a lot, but every dead is not a failure but a chance to learn. But hey, it is an open world that is filled with many, many things (don’t listen to other reviews, Assassin’s Creed is an empty map, not Elden Ring), so if you are stuck on a boss, maybe you should just go somewhere else and come back with better level and skills. Being an open world and allowing you to tackle bosses and difficult situations later on, makes a more accessible game that other Souls, that are more lineal and forces you to kill a boss or you cannot advance. For me, being a Souls fan since Demon Souls, it feels like a step forward, a beautiful game filled of experiences and adventures, and I am sure many people will enjoy it. This said, if you use to play with all aids, in easy mode, and you are not used to challenges, and want to feel overpowered and simply smash buttons, this is not your game. You will get frustrated as it demands mental calm.
Greatest game I have ever played in my life! Every encounter and interaction in this world is so finely crafted it’s baffling. We are in next gen BABY!
Amazing game, one of my favorites has the best balance of all of FROM's game
Absolutely amazing game in so many aspects. Three things prevent it from reaching a perfect score: - Barebones story - Forgettable characters - Essentially forcing you to google stuff because the game can't be arsed to even give you a clue as to how you should proceed a questline (if you're playing in offline mode) Other than that, it's an absolutely amazing experience in every regard.
Simple the best game I have played in years!!! I feel sorry for any other game coming out this year with there aim **** of the year title as they have no chance.
OK. I never thought I was going to give this game any score below 9, but I am. Hear me out. I have the platinum for all FS games, and I got the one from Elden Ring. I can safely make a review and tell you the good and bad. In a nutshell, there are various innovations, but also a myriad of features that were recycled, unpolished, and repetitive. Bing objective, buy the game, is amazing BUT be aware of what I list below. There are numerous positive sides: 1) There are numerous beautiful places that are an eye feast. 2) The multiplayer changed, which I liked. Now, you can only be invaded if you already started a multiplayer section (i.e., summoned a co-op). Thus, it feels fairer, since before you could get invaded and mobed by the invader and the monsters. 3) Boss fights are epic. 4) Faith build FINALLY is good and viable for TRUE combat. Now faith builds have multiple options for attacks and heavy blows, not just some boosts and healing. 5) Amazing choices for unique weapons with unique attacks. 6) The world is absurdly big. To fully explore everything (and do some grinding) it took me around 130h in a single playthrough. 7) A lot of things to randomly do and explore in the open field. 8) You do have an absurdly amount of choices of possible builds. Like..a lot. 9) Crafting: now you can craft things instead of just buying them or looting, great. 10) 'Rune" mechanics is way better than "humanity", you will see. 11) Possibility of concocting your own custom potion for special effects. 12) Leveling takes fewer "souls" per level. 13) Way more charges for your HP/Mana recharge. 14) The game is full of bosses, not just major ones. 15) Overall fun and addictive. 16) Multiple chances of respecting your stats to try new builds! The negative: 1) Unbalanced fights. You will feel like you are always behind the game. You will NEED to grind some levels. You will be 20 levels above the game area, and you will have powerful weapons for the area, but you will fight a boss and feel that you are just slowly chopping down a tree. Some bosses have an absurd amount of health. I rarely called co-operators in DS1-3, Demon Souls, and Bloodborne. I rellied a lot in co-ops in Elden Ring. 2) I felt that the AI is not polished. It is not about AI like the other FS games, it is about taking insane amounts of damage and infinite chains of combos. I counted, some "elite enemies" can make a 12-15 hit chain. It is like all enemies are Hunters from Bloodborne. 3) Monster looks like it wights 50000 Kg? It will be fast. Does Knight use heavy armor and a massive sword? He will be fast. The enemy is not fast? He will have fast projectiles. 4) Being sincere, the graphics are not better than DS3. However, this is a PS5 game, and the graphic did not change. It doe snot bother me, but you expect differently. 5) You have hundreds of choices of builds, but you will eventually choose one with bloodloss because bloodloss is just broken in Elden Ring. Combine bloodloss and frostbite and you will be playing the game as easier as it gets. 6) Some regions are just too frustrating. I am not kidding, some regions of the game will just not be enjoyable at any level - neither visually, nor in terms of loot, nor it will be cool to fight enemies; 7) Numerous enemies and bosses have recycled moves from other FS games. I understand devs doing that, but man, it is a lot of recycling. At some points you just make this face (-.-). 8) They screwed up the quests. In any other FS game, you get attached to some NPCs, you want to know more about their stories, and more importantly, you can follow their story and kinda know what you need to do or where to go. Now, you just don't care. You will care for 5-6 NPCs in the game (from dozens), and the rest is just irrelevant. You will skip most quests because you will either not find the NPC while exploring, or you will just not know what to do. I think that I finished like 5 quests, from the dozens of quests available. For most of them, I did even know what to do, or what they wanted. Likewise, they generally give something irrelevant in the end. 9) Low replay value. Before, you wanted to go to NG+ for new weapons, build improvements, etc. Now, you can basically do everything in one playthrough. You will do more just for the other endings. Overall, it is a great game, but it is not a 10, or ultra innovative like they sell to you. It is an enjoyable game, a great FS title, fun, addicting, with tons of features/fights/lands that you will love, but it has some bumps on the road that will get under your skin sometimes.
First of all, let me warn you that the game is hard and at first it seems lifeless. I can honestly say that this game is not a 10 for all gamers but for those of us who like to explore and a challenge... this game is gold. If you like souls games and open world adventure games, this is the game for you.
You will spend over 100 hours exploring, fighting, and dying (over and over). Much of this time is spent trying to figure out what you should be doing to advance the story-line which is murky at best. Don't get me wrong, I found the game enjoyable and satisfying on many levels; however, I don't think I would have made it to the end without a guide, and even then it was frustrating and challenging (good and bad). Game of the year contender? Critics all rave about it, so what does my opinion matter? Because I'm here to tell you that it is flawed in many ways that are inexcusable. Namely, the story is a bit of a mess and "quests" are a mystery shrouded by layers of contempt by From Software to those who dare ask for more guidance than arrows pointing you to something, something, something.
Sorry, nothing special about that game. The mechanics are terrible... most of the time its harder to jump over tree areas and die during it than actually bossfights. The mechanics are the worst in the game. The levels look interesting but are plane dead wirh lazy story telling. If u enjoy beeing hit with some f*cked arrow in the middle of a deadly junp that seemed to be no problem by some middle level archer... but killing bosses is jist a thing of farning runes and level up. Thats all about that gameplay.
I have played videogames since the early 90s. Over the years, I’d given up hope on a mainstream title ever surpassing the games I played in my youth. However, after experiencing Elden Ring in it’s entirety, I can unequivocally say that it is my favorite game of all time. If you love soulsborne games, then you MUST play this. It IS a masterpiece. I truly cannot imagine a better game. As far as the story: it is much more complete than previous Fromsoft games, likely owing to GRRM’s contributions. It is not a cinematic experience like most modern mainstream titles, it is still largely in the background, but it’s very compelling. Gameplay is fantastic. Melee, ranged, magic, and hybrid builds are all viable. The combat is the best of any soulsborne game. Boss fights are challenging, but fair. My only criticism is that several boss fights seem to be designed with the intent that you use a spirit summon. Which is ok, but I feel like spirits trivialize a lot of the content. Re-used bosses do not bother me. In fact, I think it’s neat to fight a boss again after you’ve leveled and augmented your build. With the amount of content this game gives, roughly 80-100 hours, I think such a criticism is completely bogus. The open world design is the best I’ve experienced in any title. It is detailed and nuanced. There is a great deal of verticality in the terrain which makes exploring non-trivial even after you’ve discovered the map for a location. There are also many hidden dungeons, locations, and secrets. On my first play through, I attempted a 100% run (without a guide), going over every area multiple times, and I still missed some content. In my opinion, the low reviews are either from the casual crowd who aren’t used to the difficulty, or fake paid reviews to bash the game. Yes this game is challenging, but I find it is the easiest soulsborne game to date. The difficulty in this game is tuned very well. It is not unfair nor tedious. It doesn’t hold your hand, which most gamers are probably used to, but that is what makes the game feel rewarding. 10/10
Obtained platinum trophy in ~170 hours at lvl 192. Not interested in co-op/PvP, played offline. The wondrous and massive world of the Lands Between is literally awesome, the lore intriguing and captivating. Exploring the castles and wilderness, caves and catacombs quickly became an addiction. There are some performance issues but I'm not that bothered by them. Still, the performance isn't anything to write home about. There also aren't any DualSense features on PS5. Since Elden Ring has been widely praised, my review focuses on criticism. My biggest complaint is that many of the enemies and bosses feel disappointingly unbalanced, which is a big issue when a game centers around combat. A band of towering giants with flaming swords? Who cares, bring it on! But see those rats sniffing about? You better run or die in a ditch. Many basic enemies, like dogs, deal more damage than the bosses. How is that intentional? There are bosses that offer a fair and fun challenge, but many (or even the majority) of them are just ridiculous. Either they're too strong, tanky and fast or total pushovers. Who's going to die in two hits, me or the boss? When the hard ones aren't already hard enough they come in pairs (yay...) and the weak ones die to a couple of swings (that's it?). When so many of the bosses fall into these two extremities, it means that many of the fights aren't particularly fun nor memorable. They feel repetitive or anticlimactic. The hard bosses are prone to extremely delayed attacks, likely to throw off souls veterans. Their AoE attacks and combos deal massive damage. Even if you survive one with a sliver of HP left, the bosses are often scripted to attack when you heal, so a lot of the challenge boils down to making zero mistakes. Add spirit summons, one of the major additions to the series, to the mix and many of the fights feel like they have almost random odds of victory. Many boss fights have clearly been designed with spirit summons (what the gatekeepers refer to as "easy mode") in mind so they're definitely part of the intended gameplay. I still wish more bosses had been designed solely for single-player (no spirit/NPC summons) like in the previous games. I shudder to wonder how big a pain in the ass a spiritless run would be. FromSoftware had already perfected the "souls-like boss" in their previous games. Elden Ring proves that these games work better in a more focused and linear setting. Don't get me wrong, I'm absolutely enjoying the game (plenty of bosses included), but it doesn't strike me as FromSoft's greatest work yet. The gameplay feels oddly dissatisfying during certain fights. A handful of other complaints: Considering how vast Elden Ring is, it's baffling how vague and directionless the NPC quests are, to say the least. Trying to figure out where an NPC has moved requires more blind luck than anything else. I don't need the exact location on the map, but I'd prefer a few hints to Fextralife. Item/magic quick select feels quite old-fashioned. They should've implemented something more modern (similar to e.g. TLOU or Dishonored). L3 as the sneak/dismount button is frustrating, to put it mildly, but I haven't suffered accidental dismounts since switching L3 and ↓, allowing me to change items easily while walking. The map markers feel lacking, there should be more options or different colors. Can't compare the equipment in the shop menu. Fall damage feels inconsistent. Most items seem almost redundant. The best content in Elden Ring are the legacy dungeons, like the Stormveil Castle or the Volcano Manor. The peerless level design makes the exploration so damn satisfying and fun. Character design and art direction are thoroughly superb, even breathtaking at times. Elden Ring has improved many aspects of the "soulsborne experience", but for me, it doesn't reach the heights of Bloodborne, Dark Souls or Sekiro. I would still recommend it to anyone interested in challenging action RPGs and open-world games, however, if the next FromSoft game turns out to be yet another Dark Souls, I'll pass.
The best game ever i see i love everything in this game its amazing from software have a best game in this world
Its obviously very similar to dark souls but offers a more casual experience while exploring. Sheer emptiness and weak story keeps it from being 10/10.
Elden Ring could have been one of the greatest video games of all time, but it turned out to be mediocre at best, and is definitely the weakest of the Souls games if you look at the amount of effort that went into it. I don't know why the professional critic reviews are so high, I can only surmise they never had the time to play past the starting zone, because it's all downhill from there. On the plus side, the open world is a high point in gaming, and outshines anything I've seen before. It's hauntingly beautiful, richly detailed and full of surprises. That's about all the good I can say about this game. The negative is that the combat is a complete mess. It's not that it's difficult, it's just wildly inconsistent, and a huge disappointment compared to the finely-tuned likes of Bloodborne. One of Elden Ring's biggest draws is the massive array of weapons and play styles it gives you - all of which is a complete lie. There is really only one way to play this game - caster. Get the cookie cutter caster build that everyone is playing. If you like random death a lot more you can go melee, in which case there are two less enjoyable cookie cutter builds for that. Everything else is like trying to cut through solid rock with soggy toilet paper. The boss fights are amazing and memorable - in other Souls games. Meanwhile in Elden Ring, they went with quantity, so you have lots of the same copy/paste encounters, and in many of them you'll be fighting not just a boss, but also the buggy camera, the clippy terrain, and the absurd melee range mechanics that are there to remind you to play a caster. FromSoft games have a reputation for being difficult but fair, but ER is neither of those, it's just random and unfair. It's pretty common for bosses to double or triple punish you for mistakes with overlapping, poorly-telegraphed attacks, but hey, all of this can be avoided - Play. A. Caster. Pushing through this game wasn't fun, it felt more like a job, and when I was done I felt no sense of accomplishment. I celebrated by firing up Dark Souls III for a few hours so I could wash the taste out of my mouth and remind myself that From mostly makes really good games. I won't revisit The Lands Between - there are far better games out there worth trying, and that's a shame - under the trash gameplay, Elden Ring's amazing world has gone to waste.
Best gaming experience I've ever had. Story : still don't get it, but I'm used to that after playing all souls games. Gameplay : No complaints Pros : DOG
I spent many hours with this game on my PS5 playing solo, and I made it somewhere halfway. I was helping myself with the "Elden Ring no death speedrun" video posted on YouTube. Even with the help of this video, the boss fights are extremely difficult and most of the fights have to be repeated several dozen times until, by a lucky coincidence, the boss is defeated. After one fight, which you repeated several dozen times, after many days of struggle, you go to the next fight, to which you have to spend many days again. Plot? Passing the game halfway through, I didn't notice any significant changes to the storyline. Nothing, emptiness. No incidents, the world around you remains as it was at the beginning. After many days of playing, I think that both the developers of this game and the reviewers who give this game 96% should go to a psychiatrist.
This game only appeals to a certain type of gamer that doesn't have a life and loves to beat themselves over the head. It's not a particularly good adventure game and not particularly fun to play. But if you want to prove to the world that you have nothing better to do than repeat things for hours at a time, you can find a real community of losers who find that cool in this game. Reality is that it's just kind of annoying game with a pretty lousy story and not terribly interesting gameplay.
I feel for the critics who seem to be unable to call this game for what it is, which is borderline boring. seems like everyone is afraid to say that the Emperor has no clothes. what a terrible game this turned out to be. 2022 game with worse graphics than a 2018 game and no "next gen" features. There is no story, it's all about boss fights and they try to make the game longer just by making it harder to proceed rather than creating missions and stuff. there is a reason the retail price of this game has fallen by almost 50% since release (in Australia). total waste of money
A great game, the sum of everything FROM SOFTWARE has been built until now in a gigantic open world with original and intriguing lore. It is, however, filled with repeated bosses, and weapons and abilities that make the game too much easy and invasions just annoying. In comparison, Dark Souls 3 and Sekiro are still much better games.
A new masterpiece game in 2022 but becomes a new legacy ever in our gaming experience!
The game is definitely not bad, but there are a lot of minuses. Mounted fights are forced and done very poorly. The network code is still bad. Cheaters that can almost break your PC. Extremely poor music during fights with bosses. So I really don't understand such a high rating. Well 8.5 out of 10 is ok for this game.
After 800 hours into Elden Ring i can comfortable say that this is the best video game that has ever come out in history this is the evolution of dark souls from quest design to music to world design UI graphics sound boss design weapon design variety of weapons variety of bosses and the best top notch exploration this game just keeps giving you more and more you think you finished the game nope here is another area to explore you think you finished the game nope here is another dungeon to explore how about that secret boss dragonlord plasidusax you missed this game is beyond a masterpiece and i am gonna be honest if you dont like this game your taste in video games is pure thrash and if you cant finish this game you and your gaming skills are pure thrash trizash period on the technical side this game is not running well on PC or console it has huge performance issues obviously it crashes it has bugs no game is perfect but this game is close at it gets to beyond a masterpiece i just got my platinum and i enjoyed every second of the PVE smashing bosses Bosses smashing me for hours and getting smashed in PVP and than smashing y'all brother souls gamers in PVP. Elden ring just saved gaming no NFTS no microtransactions no greedy BS Other developers take notes this is the game of the year of 2022 and the best game of the century
A true culmination of all of From Software’s SoulsBorne titles. A masterpiece of gaming art.
One of the best Game i have ever played. Better than Bloodborne ans DS1!!!!
Elden Ring isn't for everyone, exactly. But this is a must play game!!! This is my first soulsborne game and i hate the rest but Elden Ring is a masterpiece
Well well well, looks like we have another video game on our hands this fine evenging. This is certanily something on the chopping block. First first first thing first, well let me just say uh I forgot what I was going to say
Could be better. I'll start with the cons first. Biggest issue is the quest system is so poorly done and it isn't obvious to follow. Fromsoft tried to fix this by adding in markers but the quests itself are still confusing as you don't know where NPCs will go. There is also a significant number of reused content throughout the world. I lost count how many times I fought the Erdtree watchdog boss and lost interest with all the repeated enemies. Another flaw I felt was the multiplayer, why does this game still have a dated multiplayer pulled straight from Dark Souls? Speaking of Dark Souls this may as well just be called Dark Souls 4 with the similar summon/invasion system with an almost identical story. Not to mention... the same UI. Pros is thatI like that the world is huge with a sense of discovery. The mounted combat at least with magic is pleasant and intuitive. A lot of enemies are well designed and the biomes all feel different on their own. I enjoy that there are many secrets that reward those that check every nook and cranny. My favorite location had to have been the academy as it felt really interesting with all it's magic type enemies. The spellcasting system is much more rewarding than before which I found myself using more than a melee playthrough. To Fromsoft, please make sure on the next game to update the UI. I'm tired of seeing a LONG HP/MP/Stamina bar and seeing icons of what equipment I am wearing. Update the multiplayer, what is up with the summoning/invasion from another world nonsense that is pulled from Dark Souls? If you are going to make another open world please consider a quest system or make it more obvious where NPCs will go or give an indicator that you could be breaking a quest chain.
FromSoftware's games may not have the greatest graphics ever, but their ability to craft a world so full of stunning vistas and endless areas to explore, is what make them one of the best developers out there. Exploration is satisfying and rewarding and gradually uncovering the fascinating lore made it even better. The game is difficult, but that feeling of overcoming a boss you've spent countless hours practicing and dying to is worth it all. 10/10
Incredible game. Main issue I have with the game is the poor endgame balancing (most enemies/bosses will just do too much damage, can make the end of the game feel a lot less engaging). Other than that, it’s an amazing experience. Would strongly recommend to anyone
Haven't played anything like it before. This is a masterpiece from the beginning to the end.
The Game has a very unique way of storytelling and it doesnt just throw everything at you like other games but expects you to talk to NPCs and listen to them instead of skipping everything they say also you have to search for all the pieces of information and put them together to find out what you are doing all in all the game is fun and i recommend it
FROM yet again use their Midas touch to create yet another masterpiece. The cooperative accessibility really helped propel this game into being my favourite SoulsBourne title. It’s open world, while not revolutionary, is significantly delivered better than most other AAA titles. I think this has to do with how it still doesn’t really hold your hand. Commonly, waypoints destroy the immersion and sense of exploration and wonder, but Elden Ring doesn’t ‘instruct you at all times’. It merely points you in the right direction and it does it so well you may not even consciously realise. The graphics have improved, as they tend to on each title. They fall slightly short of the Demons Souls remake, but it can easily be forgiven for the sheer scale of Elden Ring which impossibly seemed to get bigger and bigger throughout my playthrough. The story is very reminiscent of FROMs predecessors. I don’t think I have the patience or mental capacity to understand it all (I’ll stick to YouTube deep dives to explain character relationships and further lore). It’s quite deep and complex, but the core objective is Dark Souls nuance. Tons of value for money, a game that will be cherished for generations. It’s a remarkable feat, and while not everyone enjoys these types of games, they should certainly take the gamble if they are on the fence.
This game is a very broken masterpiece. Its open world is beautiful, although quite repetitive by the end. The Catacombs or Dungeons spread throughout the world get boring very quickly, although that's quite common in lots of games. The Boss battles are either laughably easy or excruciatingly unfair, and the high difficulty in some bosses may lead to most players just using the same broken builds to compensate for the piss poor balancing and boss design. Gank bosses AI is some of the worst, leading to you fighting two very aggressive enemies at the same time in a room with almost no way to split aggression. All that said, still a decent game, but nowhere near the quality of the other games Fromsoft has made outside of Dark Souls 2.
Imagine someone who doesn’t read Chinese and can play the game only in Chinese, yes, now you know how it feels. No English support in Taiwan. It is really frustrating, how can it be assumed that everyone can read the language of the country they live in? Why can’t English be added as an option??
Edit: 190 hours in I achieved Platinum. You can call me M'Lord and the rating still stands. I completed every former Soulsborne game and came straight from Horizon Forbidden West to this one. After ignoring the huge technical fidelity difference between both titles it is like always: Technically not on par with current gen but the design aesthetics in landscape and buildings and monster make it look good anyway. I for 99% did not encounter frame rate issues, just noticed some in one particular area. I guess that got patched or people are exaggerating. I am currently 80h in and since I couldn't stop myself from exploring and trying every boss I found I am apparently at only 60% of content right now. From Software truly delivered what they tried: Dark Souls in open world works surprisingly well and you still got enough linear segments that are really awesome. I really dug the underground levels and all legacy dungeons so far. I cannot imagine what I want to do if I completed this game, I already play it almost everyday. The people that criticize the game design related to open world should watch some youtube videos why elden ring is actually making something stale into something very good, like Zelda did somehow in 2017. I actually want to explore every niche and never got bored! At horzon Zero Dawn I got bored (still ~very good game, just for broad masses) and it is obviously that Elden Ring does not nurture the obvious open world boredom. You need to explore by yourself and you will miss a ton of actually rewarding stuff (if you don't look at wiki :)) Also I think it is the best game for starting with a Soulsborne game for people that got scared due to the difficulty of former games. Not that it is easier, but you will "almost never" rage quit since the last checkpoint is never far away and you have multiple solutions and areas to tackle a problem. The exact contrary to Sekiro and Bloodborne (which I loved most actually). This is the game of the year to me, it is so huge and full of rewarding stuff and battles and I don't see anything that might top that in overall score. Just buy this gem, git gud and get lost in it. See you online fellow Tarnished and might we encounter each other at some jolly cooperation. (The unusual multiplayer concept works well as always.)
FromSoft fan since original Demon Souls saying Elden Ring is a masterpiece...stop reading reviews and play it.
Brilliant. A game within BEST videogames of the history. Graphics, history, gameplay... All is perfect!
From Software's best product yet. It takes everything they've learned from all their previous Souls games and improves upon it. I have only encountered two bugs total, after beating the game six times, both minor. I've also had 0 performance issues. The game does reuse a few bosses but the game has so much good content that it can be overlooked, and in the case of one boss it makes sense for it to be reused and fits the lore.
I'm not a fan of souls-like games, but Elden Ring is definitely something else. Combining open-world, with souls mechanics was a great idea, as you can actually feel the progress while playing! The bosses are clever and tough but not unfair. The world itself is dangerous, but exploring it gives a lot of joy and actually rewards you! The graphic is not up-to-date, but it's not bad. I found a couple of bugs, that were annoying, especially once I died because of one, but the game is patched. Multiplayer is kind of a joke, but I wasn't expecting much here.
Main boss quality of the base game rivals FromSoft's DLC boss quality, and that's saying a lot.
This game is a masterpiece. Everything about it is amazing (except for waterfowl dance). I highly recommend this game to anyone who likes open world games, even if you haven't played a souls game before.
I haven't played too much of the game but what I have experienced was really damn good. It has all of the really nice bonus' of the open world genre with the Dark Souls experience intertwined with it. My main issues though are mainly with the targeting sometimes hitting targeting enemies sometimes miles behind the one I want to hit and the lag after pressing the button was pretty noticeable but not impacting gameplay too much (this is most likely due to me playing the PS4 version so kind of a mute point) Overall, really love the feel of the game and the messages you can find playing through the game are really fun to experience. Absolutely a must play.
This game is one of the best games I’ve played in a long time. I don’t really understand people who criticize the graphics and frame rate on PS5 since I love the art style (which I think is more important than graphics) and it was a solid 60fps though most of my play through. I love almost everything about this game but there are a few things I can criticize. First I’m going to go into some combat problems. First there are some almost undodgable attacks like (SPOILERS) the notorious waterfowl dance which is almost impossible to doge unless you are really skilled or lucky. There are some other attacks but that’s the major one. I also feel some weapons are way too unbalanced like old ROB and moonveil. Overall still super fun. Now into exploration. Coming back to places that you are way to strong for **** but considering the alternative is enemy’s scaling with you it’s decent. I also think that a lot of items and places are impossible to find without guides. But overall I had a lot of fun exploring the densely packed lands between. I even got all the trophies!
simply a masterpiece, one of the best if not the best open world game ever made
It was a good game, but the story was also good, but the lack of dialogue was one of its shortcomings. The hour meant that the whole game was 2 hours and it was very bad that the game was not easy or difficult
The open world is amazing, there is so much detail to this game. But I can’t really call Elden Ring a game, because games are fun. Elden Ring is not fun. Its very simple why it is terrible. Elden Ring punishes you in more ways than just charging you $70, by giving you re-used Bosses, lots of dead ends, terrible game logic, zero fun, and a broken controller. Its mainly the terrible boss design, I get killed at full health in two hits while taking 30 minutes to recover from the last attack! And to just arrive at the boss fight, you have to deal with a plethora of nuisances that deal unreasonable amounts of damage. And by late game, you can only really level up your character and weapons by killing the bosses that kill you in less that 10 seconds. What really aggravated me and lots of other Elden Ring players was the Godskin Duo, the most annoying boss in the entire game. They are near impossible to fight without dying immediately. I know Elden Ring has one of the largest and most detailed maps, good graphics, and is a great challenge, but it all comes down to how much fun and joy you can have. There is no fun and joy in this. Zero. It is mentally draining to play. You should only buy Elden Ring if you an absurd amount of time on your hands and if you hate yourself.
Fromsoftware did it again, they are on another level. An amazing experience to add to the collection.
In all my many years of gaming, I have never seen a more overrated and overhyped game. I say that as somebody who adored every single Dark Souls game as well as Bloodbourne and others of a similar type such as Nioh and Nioh 2. The moment I stepped foot into Elden ring, I felt nothing but massive disappointment. I started as a Wretch and wandered around for hours looking for a single piece of usable gear without success. There was not a single moment of the spellbinding tension of the other souls games nor was the exploration particularly interesting as compensation. In fact, I don't think I enjoyed a single moment and ended up just giving up and deleting the game and never looking back. Man oh man what a disappointment that was. No idea what game the reviewers were playing but it couldn't possibly have been this one. "Best game ever?" After this debacle, I will never again buy a game based on professional reviews
While the game isn't perfect, as none are, I think this game accomplishes more than any previous souls game in terms of managing to maintain its infamous difficulty while also being easier for new players to engage with due to the new open world setting. While it has a few poorly designed bosses, boss fights are predominantly fantastic and rewarding.
This is hands down the game of the year. Fantastic game play, beautiful open world, massive amount of things to do, while still allowing go getters to complete the game in a timely manor. Awesome replay ability with PvP aspects, and Co-op PvE aspects. Ton's of great weapons and armor for an RPG, and difficult but fair game play. If you play only one RPG this year, make it Elden Ring. One very tiny complaint, the NPC quest lines can be hard to follow with out a guide, but it's a very minor thing.
Almost on par with Bloodborne. My only issue is that it feels a bit overstuffed, and the re-used boss designs can add to this feeling. Still a pretty perfect game and have a hard time giving it anything but a 10 regardless.
a true masterpiece, you will enjoy your hours of a challenging and rewarding gameplay.
One of the all time best games I’ve ever played (been gaming since the 80’s). Couldn’t put it down once it got going and spent over 100 hours before I beat the end boss and still felt like I missed 25% of side quests.
The Game looks very good, the mechanics is Dark Souls typical with some new features like the Horse or the ability to jump. The Open World is quite big (for my Taste way to big). Open World and Dark Souls is a new concept which i was a little sceptical about because for me, Open World isnt a Feature i need in every Game, it needs to fit to the Type of Game. As example, a open World in a Fallout Game is absolutely great. For a Dark Sousish Game, i dont know if a huge World is needed. What was quite annoying to me is the fact that you need to craft a Medicin to be able to play with others. Why da Hell should this be a good feature? It would have been way better if it would have been a permanent Item. I can imagine especially for new Players, its going to get more than frustrating,
This game is amazing, would have given 10 but the pvp just doesnt do it for me. It's very unbalanced and a 1 shot fest, parrying is also garbage. I prefer the high skill high reward of ds3.
WAAYYY too highly rated by people who were just reviewing the hype. This game plays well and looks good. But it ****. The difficulty is stupidly hard, the world you are supposed to want to rule is a miserable place, and did I mention it's so hard that it is no fun? If you are a masochistic Soul's fan, you will probably love this disaster ****. But nobody I know has finished it, or even enjoyed it.
This is one of the best games I ever played and I have been at it for 35 years. Definitely the best open world game with Zelda BOTW. Incredibly rich and vast. Crazy good level design. Inspiring lore. Great liberty to build your character. This game is like a drug. I understand you can dislike it but people who put anything less than 6 to this game are idiots. Have sime objectivity or get out.
amazing. best souls-borne game ever i think and one of the best games i have ever played
Elden Ring is a AAA vidya game produced by the one and only MIGHTY STRONG MIYAZAKI CHAN I WOULD **** **** FOR ELDEN 2 RING 2@ !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
This game is absolutely fantastic. I have never played a game that kept me interested for as long as the game lasted. The first few minutes of the game are not that interested because you don't know the scale of this world and what it has in store for you. But once you start to understand that part, it will blow your mind. I often find myself lost in the map just to stumble upon something incredible that would hook me for the next few hours. Secret dungeons, hidden worlds, weird modes of transportation, traps. This is a masterpiece. The graphics aren't that good to be honest, but it really didn't matter because the game was more enjoyable that anything else in the market. I guess the next milestone that FromSoftware need to reach is a visual fidelity. It will do this game justice because the level design is from another world.
After about 120hrs, Elden Ring is definitely good, but I’d hardly call it revolutionary. Either soulsbourne games are for you or they aren’t, so I think it’s unfair for anyone to rate this game based on just being in that genre with its tropes of difficulty and all that (which seems to be precisely what’s happening). So aside from that this game has benefited from From Soft’s reputation and critical praise. I heard a lot of praise about how this game has changed open world games forever and raised the bar. Don’t get me wrong, Elden Ring is good, but I can’t for the life of me imagine what everyone thinks is new here? Or maybe not new but far better than any other game has done it? It definitely meets the bar, but I think it’s a stretch to say it sets it. In that regard, I’m not a fan of the omission of some basic open world elements (like a quest log). Even this sort of thing has received praise—which again I don’t think would have happened if it wasn’t a From game. It’s definitely a good game, but if you’re not already a superfan of the developer then I wouldn’t go into it expecting it to be this life-changing experience it’s been built up to be. It took me well over 30 hrs to get into it *at all*, and even then I never had an “oh wow, this is awesome” moment with it. But plenty of “ah this is interesting; let’s check this out.”
This is a proper "true" open world. Huge variety in biomes, enemies, weapons, magic, and items. Some of the areas and things you discover are absolutely bonkers and one of a kind. Fromsoft are absolutely the tip of the spear as developers. Gave it a 9 for its technical issues. This is the first game I've played where it kicks me out of the game.
My favorite game of all time. I know 10/10 is a rookie score, but I believe this game did 10/10 what I thought was possible in gaming. I have played other FS games but never finished one. This game was perfect because I always felt like I could explore somewhere else that I could handle at my level. Is a boss hard? Just go back after you gain some levels! I never ran out of places to go at my current level. I didn’t explore just to grind levels, it was a genuine interest in seeing what was over there. I played 80 hours before I beat the game, thinking I had done everything I could. Turns out I missed A LOT! I didn’t even fight Mohg on my first play through! 80 hours of fun engaging gameplay, and I missed sooo much still! Can’t wait to see what they do next.
unnecesarily difficult. after work i wanna enjoy playing game not to give me headache .chararacter is like truck. boring open world. almost there is nothing to make me excited. enemies are too stronge even with their fart character can die . absolutely not my game . and over over overrated thats why im giving 0
Very good game but certainly overrated. The first 30-40 hours are great while you explore, but it becomes repetitive as you discover just the same places with even the same bosses. Battle mechanics are as good and entertained as simple. Character improvement is really bassic and could have been much more deep.
Probably the best souls game ever made. I hope that the next games from Fom Software will be open world like this one.
My first souls game and i fell in love with everything about this game for the 3 weeks i none stop played it. A true gamers game.
Piece of **** of a launch, but it's ok you know, i don't mind because they fixed it. This is an open world dark souls.
I LOVE how the game doesn't hold your hand like your a little child and it immediately tosses you to the wolves with a hard boss at the beginning, and during quests it doesn't highlight where you need to go you have to actually pay attention to what is being said, most immersive game I've played so far, all of the bosses present a challenge therefore making it more rewarding when beating them. The game has so many different weapons and armor, and spells at use to fit anyone's play style, they have small swords, medium swords, big swords, COLOSSAL swords, even whips, hammers, axes, bows, ballistas, staffs! There are so many builds to use I can't even count them. Overall the game is just plain fun and should absolutely be on your shelf.
Elden Ring isn't just a game, it's a work of art. It is certainly one of the best games ever created by mankind. I understand that it doesn't suit all players, but no game does. In its niche, Elden Ring is king. Challenging combat level, it is necessary to learn and master the controls, you can create your build as you see fit for your style of gameplay. As for exploration, you are rewarded every 40 seconds walking or riding around the map: hidden items, unique enemies, bosses, spells, materials... Your experience will be unique when playing this game, because the possibilities are endless. My wish and dream is for all ARPG games to use Elden Ring as the basis for their development. All in all, the best game I've ever played.
This game is absolutely magical in every way. It is not perfect, but for a game with over a hundred hours of content (my first playthrough took about 120 hours), it comes pretty darn close. Graphical fidelity may not be technically on par with the top AAA releases, but it more than makes up for it with its excellent art direction and attention to detail. I was in sheer astonishment at just how detailed many of the legacy dungeons were in terms of architecture, level design, and enemy variety. There must be over a hundred unique mob designs in this game without counting variations. The controls are similar to older Dark Souls games, so if you are familiar with those, you'll feel right at home here. However, I think they feel even more responsive here, with the addition of the jump button and the freedom that comes with it. The combat is wonderful, with it feeling weighty but not sluggish; deep but not overly complex. This game is the embodiment of "hard, but fair", even more so than older FromSoft titles. Never have I felt that a death was cheap or unwarranted. The story may be hidden at first glance, but nevertheless it manages to be very poignant. The lack of cutscenes and dialogue simply make the times when you do get one of them stand out more. I won't delve too deep for fear of spoilers, but there are a few scenes that I definitely will remember for a long time. The story and lore is hidden from plain sight, however it is quite detailed and unique. In traditional FromSoft fashion, you will need to pay attention to everything, every word of dialogue and every piece of text in the world and in the item descriptions, but if you do, you will be able to piece together a fascinating story that I personally think is book or movie-worthy. Overall, I think this game is absolutely deserving of the praise its gotten. It's astonishingly beautiful and outstanding in every way and squashed any doubts I had previously.
One of my favorite games of all time. I spent the first day it came out playing 18 hours strait.
If you like FromSofware, go ahead ! Worth it. NG+++ looking forward for DLCs !
This game is not as great as I was hoping. There is a lot of recycling from old games and the open world is no more exciting than any other open world game with too much dead space.
I have to thank From software for making this game and making everybody realize and admit that this series has always been extremely overhyped. It took you guys 10 years, but you finally got there. Beating bosses is just a matter of memorizing patterns, while dodging endlessly. That's always been the case. There is no interesting tactics to beating a boss, it's highly repetitive, boring, and frustrating. Story telling is non-existent. And yes, it's always been the case with this series. It's called cutting costs. Performance and graphics are garbage, despite the strong and inspired art direction. That's also always been true with this series. RPG aspect is actually shallow, again, that's also always been true. Open-world is just there to reveal to many of you what this game series has always been : Cheap, mediocre, served through inspired lore and visuals.
A major departure from the standard FromSoftware formula while still maintaining its core identity. As someone who's played their other games, I enjoyed it quite a lot. Even got the platinum, which I didn't bother to do for any of the others. My only criticisms are the designs/reused assets of the optional dungeons/catacombs, and poor balancing for one of the optional bosses (if you know, you know). Other than that, I think it was really fun, beautiful scenery, great OST, and it was generally worth the wait.
loved it.. but - couldnt beat the Final final boss.. gave up - felt it had random quests.. couldnt have gotten as far as I did without weikis.guides still loved it though
My first time ever playing a souls game being that I am just an FPS cod and Battlefield player. It was super hard to get used to it and even gave up once. But it reminded me that it's more strategic and skill rather than spamming R1 and R2. I managed to start reading my enemies, upgrading my armaments, traversing the world, completing Rannis questline and beat the game a couple of weeks ago. Through all the rage I had the best time with this game and I'm not even 100 percent done with it yet. For a game, I purchased it for $60, compared to other games, It's worth every cent. I would recommend this game to anyone one of the best experiences ever. This inspired me to just start bloodborne and im really looking forward to it.
It's good, I think, but I know it's not for me. The open world helps those like myself who found previous attempts at souls games to be frustrating time wasters because of the "git gud" mentality. I really enjoyed playing it with friends online, but the mechanics designed to put players together are archaic and could have been designed by Nintendo.
Best game ive played so far. Fantastic graphics, I loved the story, very rewarding boss fights and good options to balance the difficulty (skipping areas and coming back later on, summoning spirits or other players)
A piece of Master. I cannot believe they pulled it off. 11/10 DLC hopefully incoming too!
An amazing expansion upon the Dark Souls formula. How is it possible for a game to have so much content with such high quality? From Software achieved the impossible. It's not a perfect game, but it definitely deserves a 10/10.
Well what can i say... Its's such a good game. As someone who played almost every Fromsoftware Title all i can say is the Boss designs are really cool, creative and challenging. The Map Design? Awesome and the size of it with so many little secrets and hidden details just makes you look at every corner thinking you will find something. I played it till new game +7 and i enjoyed almost every second with different builds. It sets a really good standard for the next open world games and i hope there will be a second one like this
The final boss of all souls games. A masterful game with so much to explore that I could honestly play for years. Beating the final boss was the most fulfilling thing ever. I could tell while playing this game that it was the finale of over a decade's worth of content. I think this is the last souls game, guys. There will likely be dlcs though, and while I'm looking forward to that, even after over 400 hours on the game I still am not bored and can wait as long as I like. As for the gameplay, it is excellent. It is different than the other souls games in that it is open world, but it's still a souls like at heart. The difficulty is high, like any other souls game, but when the going gets tough you can just do some side quests to get stronger, rather than banging your head against a boss that's too high level for you until you bleed out. The game allows for so much customization, rather that be all the awesome and unique weapons, the stylish armors, and even tons of spells and incantations. There are many different places to explore and many questlines and dungeons. Although some dislike the game for the amount of repetition, like repeated bosses, ruins, and enemies, I personally like that, it allows you to know what to expect when you enter a ruin, like after you find the cellar in gatefront, then another in waypoint, you know whenever you go into a ruin your immediate goal is to look for a cellar. Then, the game plays with those expectations and adds a trap in the cellar, or hide the cellar beneath and illusory wall. For me, this is easily the best game of all time, and I'm glad I got to experience it for myself.
Great game and amazing world. Excellent combat system and hit-box system. Played 150 hours.
With online tutorials anyone can play this game and fall in love with the lore. You are my angel Blaidd.
I loved the game, it's a delight if you're a soul player the only thing I see wrong is that it has many repeated bosses but getting the platinum was beautiful and the endings are GOD
Games like these are exceedingly rare, and deserve recognition for that. There are so many things about this game that make it the best RPG to date. FromSoftware have built upon years of experience in game development to come up with something truly amazing. This is a hands down 'must-play' title.
This game is a great achievement. Yes it can be difficult, but you can always go do something else if an area or boss is too strong for your character. The world is a huge work of art, that is very dense, and essentially you start with weak gear, and decide how you will level your character for your play style and the loot you find. Eventually you will become powerful. Even though I didn’t play the other games from this developer, I want to now, as I was **** into the exploration, loot, character leveling, and getting good in the combat. One of the things I like about Returnal was the thrill that I could be killed at any moment. Elden Ring brings that thrill as well, and its refreshing because I was really only getting exciting thrills and emotion from online multiplayer games. As much as I love games like Spider-Man, God of War, Horizon, I never felt like I was going to have to overcome a challenge or walk into an area and be dead seconds later in those games. Returnal and now Elden Ring have been a breath of fresh air. They get me close to the thrill of a Destiny raid or an intense FPS online match, but in a single player game. Elden Ring does have multiplayer and it is easy to ignore if you want. My 10/10 is for the single player. I played the game solo and it’s one of my favorites of all time. I did not have any performance issues on PS5. If you are on the fence at least pick it up on sale, give it a chance to see if this type of game appeals to you. If you liked other games from this developer, this one is a no brainer.
PS4 graphics with beautiful art, mechanics and physics of a PS3 game. Beautiful story beautiful world. But the tech in this game is just super sub par. Old mechanics with one shot mechanics does not make a hard game it makes a lazy game and a grind.
As a Dark Souls fan boy this is nothing but a culmination of everything FromSoftware learned from every game they created in a Masterpiece of an Open-World. I can't even begin to describe how this game makes me happy. I already have 3 characters and I can't bring myself to finish the game. My main character is at the last boss's door and right when I realized it, a hollow sadness started crawling in my head, even knowing that there is more than one ending and that I wholeheartedly intent to play it at least 2 more time, doing PVP as well as revisiting from time to time. I don't remember feeling this way about many other games, the only one that comes to mind besides FromSoft games is Borderlands 2. also love that game and still visit from time to time. Truly a masterpiece, FromSoft. GG.
Best game I have played in probably the last 5 years, almost 300 hours I’ve reached on steam.
Graphics are horrendous and there are an awful amount of framedrops. Very poorly optimized. Definetly doesnt deserve so many 10's
First off, this is a great example of why single player experiences are not dead. This is in the top 3 games I have ever played, and the replayability is excellent. The only reason I am not giving it a 10 is because I do like playing with friends and the co-op is not exactly what I would hope for in an open world game.
One of the best game I ever played. Can’t wait for DLC. Already got like 500 hours in it... incredible and one if not the best gaming company on this planet
Way to easy - to much boss and enemy recycling Hugh world but not unique enough. Main bosses are good fights but always much to easy
This game is one of the best games we can play nowadays. Understanding Souls mechanics give you a much better experience, knowing what to fight and when to fight it. It is full of thousand of variables that makes it a great game. Congratulations for Hidetaka Miyazaki and his team, he is a game changer of our time and his team pure genius.
What an incredible game this is a wholesome openworld game What an incredible game this is a wholesome openworld game
Boooorrriing Open World. I miss the old Dark Souls Times :( Fromsoftware is death for me.
The game is absolutely incredible, but the quantity of crashes its pathetic and is **** my gameplay. A single hour playing is equal two or three crashes, mainly when appear that red lightning skill of the dragons, the chance of freeze and crash the **** game is about 70% when rendering that red effect. And the multiplayer stability, nothing to say, who played know how **** is... from a very nice artistic game, to a garbage full of technical issues, sad...
Boring, repetitive and PS3 graphics.... You never know where is the F**ing quest, and you're all the time disturbed by other players, or their **** messages ....
Masterpiece in every conceivable way. One of the few instances in video game history where a game is deserving of critics’ 10/10 perfect scores.
It's like everything FromSoftware has learned with all their previous games packed in one ultimate adventure. I was already a Fan of the whole Dark Souls Series and Bloodborne but I was a little sceptical if this would work in an Open World which they never even tried to do before. But my god does it work well. They just straight up made the best open world game I ever played. I have around 250 hours now and still have so many ideas which builds I want to try out or how to plan out my next playthrough. While many other big companies I liked disappointed in the last years it seems that FromSoftware just keeps improving and is just unstoppable. Thank you very much for creating such awesome games.
Oh my god shut up about the graphics. Tell if the game is good. This what is wrong with all you nerds. Shut up the godamn hell up about 60fps. I DO NOT CARE.
One of the most fun to explore open worlds ever and a culmination of everything From Software has learned thus far.
Amazing game toms of exploring and rhings to do at every corner people who hate are just bad
Good gameplay with the technical side of it is just bad and outdated. Surely, this is the worst performance of all PS5 games I have played so far. FPS is dipping to 4x in any given fight, in a PS5, in 2022. What a joke. Graphics isn't even great, I have no idea how is it possible for a so-called "AAA game" to dip to 4x FPS. Also, playstation is lying about their refund policy. They won't give me a refund, even this game has serious FPS performance issue. Going to sell my PS5 and switch to XBox. Goodbye Sony.
Elden ring is a masterpiece **** I could truly feel the coolness of this open world fantasy game and on any platform you play it on the game still delivers at the extremely high expectation for this game. The boss battles are so well made that even though I died over 50 times to one boss I kept on wanting to pick up the controller and continuing and when you do finish a boss fight you feel like you achieved something incredible. The story is enticing and makes me want to keep playing after 6 hours of consecutive games. The only issue I will bring up is that I feel like multiplayer is quite difficult to pull of it would be cooler if you could just invite your friend instead of crafting a remedy then using it and also then your friends could stay after either you or them die as it is quite annoying because they could die really quickly and then you would have to do the remedy again but that doesn't stop the game from being one of the best fantasy open world games out there. What makes it a breath-taking experience of the sheer size of the map I'm not too fond of an extremely big map where your just walking for years on end and not seeing anything which is why I love this game as you can always be stumbling across something new and their is never a lack of content. So if your looking for an open world fantasy game that ties you in so you can almost stop playing Elden Ring is the game for you.
Not for everyone but once you figure out how the game works it really is a masterpiece. One of the best games I have ever played without a doubt. The world design is absolutely amazing. I'm sure I missed some things but I really tried to explore everything in my first playthrough and it took me about 160 hours to complete. I can't wait for some dlx. I wish other games gave me this sense of wonder and the amount of content is just absurd. The scale is jaw dropping. I absolutely love the open world. I should beat some other games on my backlog but I have to start another playthrough.
I'm not happy that I don't like this game more. It is a great game but I'm so sick of open world games. This is the easiest of all the soulsborne games. The brutal difficulty is gone. There are parts that are fantastic, but those moments are lost in the spread out open world. This is probably one of the best open world games ever made, so if you like open world you're in for a treat.
World desing is so great; the RPG part is just like other souls, so it's good too, music and art are perfect and the graphics are ok. The only sin that this game have is repeat almost half of the bosses, and that maybe a lot of weapons use magic stats, so if you play dex or sthrength role, you'll probably lost grand part of the weapons. Anyway, this game deserves the GOTY and it's all the souls-like games in one, the great combination of all these kind of games. Don't pay attention to the bad users critics, the game is good, (is not perfect, but probably one of the best open world games), is definitely a must-play game and if someone says the opposite, it's just a hater.
What a blast! FromSoft has done it again, and boy oh boy have they delivered! Okay, so lets get the housekeeping out of the way.... ER doesn't have the greatest graphics, but that is no news From has NEVER gunned for graphic fidelity before if you expected it this time - jokes are on you. "quests"? - I may sound like a smartarse when I state this, but Miyazaki has his own way of doing it... love it or hate it at the end of the day it's personal preference right? I understand that the PC version had some issues to begin with, it's a good thing this day and age games can be improved upon (which I believe they have done so). I myself have played (playing) it on my PS5, I am yet to come across any substantial chugging or straight up game breaking issues but i can only speak for myself. Now for the good stuff...... If you're a fan of the "souls genre" you have arrived to heaven! The game has by far the largest selection of unique weapons and fashion pieces (with the ability to alter the majority of them, thanks Boc) You can really create the "hero" of your dreams! Varity is the spice of life and ER delivers! I for one am happy to slam my head against the brick wall to go back over and over until my muscle memory develops for each enemy, but if unlike me you find yourself struggling you can go to soooooo many other locations to get stronger or just simply take a breather! I am **** at writing reviews, admittedly I am biased towards this series of games... Bottom line is, if you are expecting BOTW, Horizon (both are phenomenal games btw) or even Skyrim - you're fresh out of luck.. One does not walk into an Armani store looking for an extreme metal hoodie & bondage pants right?! I think they have shaken things up enough even if you aren't familiar with the series but possess some amount of patience to just stick with it untill it clicks..... there's a gleaming gem here! I personally have put in over 250 hours so far - and i can't see myself getting bored of the Lands between anytime soon! Give it a go, you won't regret it!
Man, this is one of the best games on Playstation, hands down. And no, I wasn't a fan of every souls game. I found some of the others repetitive and kind of boring. But holy crap does this change that. This game is exciting, as fast paced as you want it to be, and extremely addictive. It makes you want to restart it and try every possible build that you can. I seriously couldn't put it down!
Awesome game. A must play for SoulsBorne fans. Although the game stutters a bit but it doesn't affect the gameplay.
I will avoid giving this a rating to "balance" the ratings to where I feel they should be, and instead give my honest feelings. I consider myself a souls fan. I have completed every soulsbourne title Fromsoft has put out save for demon souls, some of them twice. Of them all, my personal favorite (though I hated it when I picked it up at first) was Sekiro. You would *think* that would mean I love this game, but instead... I felt betrayed. You will find review after review complaining about graphics and performance. Those things matter rather little to me, outside of crashes. What really hurt was the shift in design philosophy, for me. I played all of the Fromsoft games as a melee player, without summons. It's the way I enjoyed them. I loved the thrill of facing an enemy point blank, rolling through danger, dying a bunch, and eventually coming out on top. In terms of death to victory ratios, this game was probably about the same. But where every other game in the series adhered to "Hard but Fair", this game seemed to be explicitly aiming for "Hard because *Unfair*". Pretty much every major enemy has an unlimited combo of massively splashy hitboxes that will literally one shot you unless you throw your entire progression in the garbage in the name of Vitality, in which case you will be two shot instead. The enemies *literally* read your inputs, reacting before your character begins to move, literally speeding up animations to punish you for trying to punish them for missing an attack. Every enemy is hyper mobile, easily jumping behind you in the time it takes you to swing at them, even if you started the attack mid animation for them. This was fine in Sekiro. Sekiro was given the tools to handle them. A perfect, twitch reaction parry, with lightning fast strikes and ninja tools to counter them. In Elden ring, I have the tools of a Dark souls character, fighting endless Sekiro bosses. I put in well over a hundred hours, I was streaming the game intending to beat all of it that I could find on my first playthrough. I toiled through so much of it I disliked, hoping it would get better, or at least be inoffensive until the end. It was when I reached a snowy area with literal invisible assassins that command grab and execute you, making no sound, leaving no footprints in the snow that I decided I was well and truly done with the game. I threw my playstyle entirely in the trash, started summoning mimic, like pretty much everyone does, for every fight. Used a giant shield, because they're broken. Stopped doing any optional content. Cheesed enemies, like apparently everyone for some reason really enjoys with enemies in this game. I beat it, it felt gross and hollow, and also like exactly what the devs were trying to push me toward the entire game. If your only wish for a Fromsoft game was that it was as broad as an ocean, as shallow as a puddle, and every enemy aspired to be champion Gundyr, then this really is a must play for you. If, Like me, that sounds like a truly dead and barren world devoid of any joy, then congratulations Fromsoft. You have finally made a world so bleak that even those who love you can find no joy in it.
This game is the most overrated game in some time. It is just dark souls 3 with open world. So naturally it will inherit everything wrong with that into this. Ok let me ask you question. Why do you like darks souls 3? Most people will say because of the bosses. But the thing is that the main gameplay loop - basically 70% of the game (which is the time spent going boss to boss) is absolutely trash. This is because the gameplay is super boring, clunky with outdated controls. Ok but you may say Elden Ring has open world. Its open world has the same problem as every other open world game. That being you can't make whole map full of new things. After Limgrave every other place is pretty much the same thing. Yes there will be some places which are unique but those are rare. There is no incentive to exploring places and enemies are just copy-pasted - there only so much dragons you can kill after you start pulling your hair. The gameplay is just bad, simply - absolutely atrocious. It feels like you in quick sand whilst the enemies are not. This is because the game has no cancelling - makes it so unresponsive. Most of the weapons are copies of each other and have no impact when using. It is quite sad, because if this game actually took inspiration from Bloodborne and Sekiro it would've been a much better game. Bloodborne's main gameplay loop is so much better, faster and has lot of impact. Bloodborne got rid of boring copy-pasted weapons and added trick weapons which are all pretty unique. But most importantly their ability to transform gives so many gameplay opportunities for combos and different strings.Also bloodborne and sekiro made the slow gameplay better by giving players the incentive to play fast and aggressively - got rid of the monotonous roll. There is so many reason why Bloodborne and Sekiro and better games, but I guess you get the point. Initially I was going to give this game 88, this was when I played it day one and finished it a week later. But in hindsight after thinking about all the flaws and not being blinding by hype - I can confidently say this game is no way 97 or a 85.
No woke content, this is a very good start for 2022! No Ubisoft like open world content, this is why this game is 10/10
Insanely high quality game it just lets itself down with poor quest design, my Ranni quest bugged so she wouldn't spawn, because she didn't spawn now Blaidd can't proceed, because I can't do the Blaidd quest I can't seem to trigger the ALexander quest. If they'd included some kind of quest log at least then I'd be able to see what I need to do trigger the start of other quests even if i'm stuck not being able to do Blaidd
map and environment 9/10: this is just an amazing work of art but dont expect anything close to DSremake in terms of graphics and sound design gameplay 7/10 great classic DS combat gameplay but reused bosses becomes boring after 20h. Story and lore 3/10 : this George Martin collab is 70% marketing 30% creativity... Multiplayer 2/10 : mostly impossible to invade or be invaded in most area of the game. almost no balancing with several pvp builds. coop is not functional. I am already going back to DS3...
One of the best rpg i have ever seen. 182 hours in the game passed as one. I recommend the game.
First of all i haven't played any souls games before and my experience was **** was a little hard for me to get used to the difficulty but now i have learnt the mechanics and the controls well enough that i have beat the game 7 times already.This is what the game industry **** microtransactions,you just get the game and play it no pay walls no **** the graphics were great but to be honest they aren't the best for the time but that doesn't matter what matters is the gameplay is it is good players won't care about little graphic **** yea and the open world is AMAZING like the best it made me feel like all of the other open worlds are small and bland .and if anyone says that this needs easy mode tell them get gud
very good game but also very big world and loses focus much of the time. also, like all other FromSoftware games other than Bloodborne (and possibly Sekiro) it doesnt have the sidestep mechanic when locked onto an enemy in combat. for me that makes the combat much less fun than Bloodborne. that being said Bloodborne is clearly my favorite FS game and better than Elden Ring.
This game is ultimate version of Dark Souls. I like the game a lot. The performance on PC Is not that good but aside from that, this game is amazing
There are a lot of bug ! The game Is beautiful but the graphics Is old and not Is beautiful
After fully completing the game and putting in 140 hours, I think the critics nailed it, this game really is an open world masterpiece which is guaranteed to influence open world rpgs and maybe even open world shooters moving forward. The artistic, design, sound, exploration, immersion, combat, lore, enemy/area/boss/weapon/spell variety and size of the world are literally off the charts. It's also challenging while not being unfair and it gives you options to trivialise absolutely anything if you have no interest in the challenge. If they had charged $100 (EA or Ubisoft would have) it would be understandable but at 60 it's a steal. This game is almost certainly going to win GOTY 2022.
Best FromSoftware game to date. An open world souls game? What more could you ask for?
First fromsoft game and it’s already one of my fav games of all time. Didn’t buy at launch, but glad I got it now. Not dying to any boss 30 times over really made me enjoy the game more. Only the final boss took me awhile to figure out. Game is just so good for fantasy lovers, the magic powers gives you a very fulfilling Gandalf/dr strange game.
It goes down to preference in some cases such as boss OSTs, but this game is otherwise better than any other souls game in almost every way. This is one of those games that feels you with extreme joy of how good it's made. The invasions are a bit messed up because of exploits people currently do; other than that, GOD TIER game. Thank you, Miyazaki!
Playing it on a PS4, and I've had nearly zero performance issues. Sure, the graphics aren't as impressive as new generation hardware, but the game is so incredibly fun that it doesn't matter at all. This is what Elden Ring has going for it: it's just super fun. If you enjoy action RPGs, or dark fantasy settings, PLEASE, give this a try. It's a masterpiece.
After playing it for over 250 hours I can safely say that it’s the best game I’ve ever played. It’s perfect. Elden Ring is Miyazaki‘s Magnum Opus.
Honestly best game I've played! The world is rich , the design of the enemies is unique and cool, THE VOICE ACTING IS INSANE, THE MUSIC/BOSS THEMES ARE RIDICULOUSLY GOOD. Game of the year!
This has to be the most, time-consuming, grinding, tedious game I have ever played. It pushes you over the edge more than is necessary. When a game causes more stress and pressure than work or school it should not be called a game.
This was the first souls game I ever beat. I wasn’t very optimistic going into the game and haven’t enjoyed most modern games lately. especially open world games, they usually stress me out and make me burn out very fast. I was recommended by a friend to try this game out and hadn’t seen anything about it before purchasing. After only an hour of gameplay I was immediately hooked, I couldn’t stop playing. The open world pulled me in and immersed me without overwhelming me, I felt rewarded instead of side tracked. Being mostly an MMO player I was surprised at how much I enjoyed the vague quest design and story. It truly inspired me to figure things out on my own. After beating it 6 times in a short period of time I have since moved on to play all of fromsoft’s other games and beat all of them aswell. This game is now my #1 overall favorite game I think I have ever played. Can not recommend enough to anyone who enjoys exploring, challenging themselves, and getting immersed in a beautiful world.
AMAZING GAME game balance changes with the update, but I am enjoying it There is no big nerf so you can play with confidence The characters are also attractive
Game of the year hands down. Other games would have to delay for one year if their target is to compete for game of the year.
This TV s the best FromSoftware game ever. I never play FromSoftware games before and this is my first and it's hard but I can go around, because it's open world and level up my character (The Confessor) and than fight first with mini boss, finish some side quest and then fight with first Elden Ring boss which I was beat at first...
This is right up there with other masterpieces such as GTA V and Legend of Zelda BOTW, the sheer depth of the game and choice of characterisation in tackling it is staggering. I’m afraid those that have laid the accusation of it being a dull open world game have probably scratched the surface of what’s on offer. There are moments in the game which will stick with you forever such as the Tower of Caelid, Ainsel River Well, Deeproot Depths, just too many to mention. If you love Souls games , I certainly do, you will not regret persevering through the first few hours of this, yes, it’s open world and initially it’s confusing in terms of which path to take, but once it starts to click you will realise youre playing something special. You will never wait long for other players to help with awkward bosses, there seems to be a real community wanting to help others out in this respect. Build your character however you want, there’s the additions of crafting, also Ashes of War to add to your weapon, and Spirit Ashes to summon to help with challenging areas if you feel the need. I don’t understand those who criticise the graphics, one of , if not the best game ever created, the first three releases of World of Warcraft, existed on the same graphics engine for years. The graphics in Dark Souls are unique and have their own flavour, I love the fact they chose to continue with the same style and artwork. In addition combat always feels like you’re fighting something solid and tangible. The whole package just works in a way that most other games cannot come close to. It is a masterpiece…on this rare occasion the critics have actually got it right
Gameplay 10/10 Story 10/10 Music 10/10 Graphic 10/10 I want play elden ring for many months This game is best souls game
God damnit. Godly game and future goty of 2022. I can only say that the game is not captivating with graphics, but the mechanics well known from souls have been perfectly developed, new features added in this game are really well suited. music, locations and bosses are just stunning. Just enjoy this challenging game. It's funny that some people give this game low ratings, but they don't even understand what it's about.
Game is unplayable can't change the language as it is stuck in chinese. Absolutely ruins the entire game
Hands down THE BEST souls game experience. I have started a couple of Fromsoftware games but quit all of them early-mid game. Elden Ring creates a world that can be as challenging or forgiving as you want it to be.
One of the best games made by mankind (along side Zelda), A MUST PLAY......
No graphics issue on ps5. Stop review bombing this game based on pc performance! Throughly enjoyed my 10+ hours PER DAY in the last three days. Honestly think this is game of the decade. Open world is full of interesting stuff. You JUST NEED TO LOOK FOR THEM!
Been playing over 100 hours now and I still haven't beaten it yet. Elden Ring is really a great game and an excellent step up in the evolution of the Souls series and open world games in general. My only problem with the game so far boils down to these things. * The world is too big* While this is a good thing for some. I'd rather have a world that is smaller but with bigger payoffs for exploration. Elden Ring has that but there were times I'd be exploring not to really find anything of value at all. Only a dead end or some trash mobs. I really liked the first two "starter" zones in Elden Ring because it really felt like there was a lot to find if you explored but once I beat the first major story boss, and progressed into the next area those rewards for exploring seemed to be less frequent. With some much to just look around at, it gives me exploration fatigue. *Music* The music is SO bland. Just creepy ambient sounds for the over world, and uninspired boss battle music. Once I left the starter zones I just started putting on podcasts as I played because the music isn't worth listening to. *Quest* This is nitpicking but the quests are just as cryptic as ever. Honestly, gold star to anyone who could have figured out how to finish Ranni's questline without a guide. Would be nice if there was just a little hint or something on what to do with quests.
This game is absolutely amazing, such a big world to explore, getting loot is fun, the bosses are amazing, and overall an amazing experience, I have spent 100 hours for my first playthrough, absolutely astonishing, this game will win the Game of the year reward, I'm betting money on it!
My review is for people who knows and likes FS games. Elden Ring is the first game I've preorded. The most important reason why I was hunting for PS5. I'm fun of FromSoftware games. All parts of Souls , Sekiro, BB were finished with big joy. Elden Ring was the game that I was very waiting for. And it's the fist Miyazaki game I've dropped after 65-70% completing. To me: open world for souls game didnt worked . In this time. in Elden Ring I mean. - One of the resaons why I love Souls games it's very good elaboration of locations. it's was always inetersting to expore them. It's like a surviving adventure. But not this time ..Half time of gaming in Elden I'm just moving on "horse" throw the big areas. I can just pass throw a lot of enemies. it's not making fun for me. Still I really like some locations like Castles, and Undeground in Capital -> thats a part that reminds me good BB&Souls game with perfect eleboration. And I enjoy them so much. but good locations are limited in quantity. - Some bossess are really nice and hard but they are repeating quite usuall - Due to openworld, extra abilitites and many magical stuff effects on other very imprtant part of the games – *balance* ! And unfortinatly the balance meshed up in ER. It's not broken but it's not as good as usual in FromSoftware games. - And Last thing which is not so important for me still the graphics looks out of date a little. Some locations are good but in general the game looks slightly old fashioned I think it's beacuse of Souls-graphics engine .. Still 60 fps and 4K are ok So to me: Elden Ring is defently overated by Critics. They are some founduemntal things that have to be improved to get reall: 9/10. it's not Zelda BofW (which is one of the best open worlds games) It's not RDR 2. And It's not so interesting as Sekiro / BB / or DS3 Still if you are the player who likes Miyazaki games you will find what them like in Elden Ring but to me it's mixed up fillings. it's not a best project of this great studio but its the biggest. It's good but not perfect as the Mestacritic ratings. to me it's maximum: 7/10
lands beetwen is a dark but very beautiful world, the world design is amazing, the game is very high quality, but one thing I don't like because this game is very hard
Best game ever made from the best developers. No Cap or **** in the game, just top notch quality gaming content. A very undrpriced game!
I finished the game in 162 levels and 148 hours, even if the graphics are not very good, it is acceptable, but the art direction is very good, there is a very large playground, a lot of challenging bosses and a lot of danger, I liked the game very much
Best game of 9th generation so far, there is only one problem, the game is not balanced in many cases, other things just perfect especially gameplay and art design.
Elden Ring is an outstandingly unique masterpiece that will reward your patience and willpower. Perfection is something that doesn't exist. There will never be a game without a flaw or things that could be better. But every playtime in Elden Ring is magical and exciting. Elden Ring raised the bar for all future open world games by a lot, especially since the lastest open world games tended to disappoint. This is the kind of game that makes everything you played before now look worse than it was. To conclude: Elden Ring is not a perfect game, it is not the game of the century - but it will go down in history as one of the best games of all time.
God tier game. The best FromSoft product to date though certainly not my favorite
Man. My favourite game always was Morrowind. Now, Elden Ring is kinda Morrowind on steroids. F-king great exploration. Dpn't know what to say more. "Game hangover" will be the biggest in years. :(
This is without any doubt the best game of 2022 and perhaps one of the best games I've ever played.
If you have not played this game then you're a dumbass. Most amazing and immersive open-world game. Gripping lore that keeps you on edge to learn more. Combat encounters are intricate and an adrenaline rush. Sense of exploration is unmatched. It's a gift from the heavens. Look up above and glimpse the stars. OHHHHHHHHHHH!
Elden Ring can best be described as a rollercoaster ****. At moments you're brought to unimaginable highs, and just as quickly it can plummet you to the bottom. The developers certainly set their ambitions high with their first open world game experience, and to give them a lot of points, they hit the mark exceedingly well. Lots of mystery in things to find as you explore, a good deal of freedom in the order in which you complete tasks, and lots of diversity in the various landscapes you encounter along the way. The game is quite simply beautiful; even with unsettling enemies or grotesque environments, there is always a level of charm to be found almost anywhere you look. This ambitious approach was far from perfect however. There's a constant lack of direction throughout the game to an unfortunate fault, as from the beginning you're given a poor idea of where you're supposed to go or what you're supposed to do. While I also love hidden secrets, some tasks you have to do in Elden Ring are exceedingly convoluted. The worst being a key item where you find one half in a relevant area, and the other on the other side of the world hidden in a pot at an unrelated village. Or to finish one quest line you have to find an invisible wall to a cave across the world from where the quest started with no direction. These things simply don't translate well to an open world experience without at least some sense of direction, and it's something I'm hopeful they improve on with the next title. The difficulty of the game will always be a topic of debate, but I must reference that even the director himself apologized that he believes they made the game too difficult even by their own standards. This did leave me unable to play the game by myself and thus I only played with allies. In a way this did create a unique experience I'm glad I had, minus the full month the game's multiplayer way broken, because there was a level of charm in traversing the open world with a party and working together to take down the various challenges before us. Though most of that joy left by the end with the game's highly unbalanced endgame, but if you want more detail on that there are plenty of articles talking about how flawed that was. The rush of finally clearing a difficult boss is at its finest here, but it is a shame so much head bashing is often required to reach it, especially towards the end. The last point of critique is the story. The lore of this world and the characters in it are actually quite amazing, and the cutscenes are beautifully animated and draw you in every time they happen. I do however wish the story was a little more transparent; rather than reading item descriptions or getting tidbits here and there, I wish the story was told to me directly. With cutscenes already so beautiful and stunning, I wish they could have told me about the story I was experiencing as I was already drawn in. Perhaps the maiden could have told me more as I rested at the sites of grace, or Gideon could have talked more in the library? If the creators wrote such a wonderful story they should have held it with pride, not left it to be discovered by independent research. Ultimately the thing I wanted more from this game was transparency. Knowing where to go, what to do, knowledge that weapons matter more than stats (or a better tutorial in general), and of course a better presentation of the story. This lack of transparency in all these factors prevented this game from being a masterpiece to me, but with all that being said, this is still a very good game. Exploring the open world, finding hidden secrets, taking on exciting bosses all with a companion at my side brought a level of charm to this game that captivated me for many nights. If I think of Elden Ring not as a mark of what they've achieved, but rather as a starting point of their new era, I can only get excited. If this is where the starting line is I can only imagine what's around the corner, in fact I firmly believe they can only improve from here. They've nailed so many things perfectly, and if they can refine the lacking components just a little more, I think their next entry could hit a mark of mastery. Elden Ring is a journey worth going on, and while not perfect, definitely delivers a unique adventure with lots of joy to be had. I look forward to what comes next on what is hopefully only the beginning of greater things to come.
2/3 of this game is genuinely fun, until the devs decide that the only way to make this game difficult is by adding **** OP attacks and pot luck gameplay.
I wanted to finish the game prior to writing a review and without using online guides but it proved very difficult and ended up googling some progression points to just stop roaming around aimlessly. To start, Elden Ring is a great game by all means and is a nifty throwback to the days when you needed to buy strategy guides and read the instruction booklets that came with games. There is definitely some artificial difficulty here that can be more annoying than fun. Enemies obviously lack stamina gauges and many bosses will just spam you into oblivion with military level missile tracking. some enemies will spam projectiles at you that hardly ever miss and your only chance is i-frame dodging, such is the nature of Souls games. However, here is slightly different as in games past enemies would leave openings for you to exploit, good luck with that here. Most bosses I ended up "cheesing" to just get clear. There is a 100% pacifist playthrough that essentially exploits the AI's need to spam you even at it's own detriment. Essentially the player would lure the boss to a cliff of some sort and "assist" them on their way off. The funny thing this is seen as a "challenge" playthrough when it's actually the most efficient way to defeat the bosses as most of the time you won't be getting within 10ft of the boss without being obliterated by endless AoE attacks. So many times I resulted to spamming rot arrows at a boss from a cliff he couldn't reach (screw you Fallingstar Beast). Then there is the issue of easily missing critical game components. For example, Roderika is a Tarnished you will most likely find semi-early in the game but if you aren't gung-ho about harassing her for dialogue you won't get one of your first ashes AND later at the roundtable a key NPC for making ashes stronger. There is no indication that you need to speak with her multiple times in the slightest. A lot of quests in this game are just like this; easily missed UNLESS you are constantly researching with a google browser open and I feel that's a damn shame. Quests are just so disjointed and NPC's are just so vague when offering help it can be quite annoying more than fun. There are times when you find a riddle and the only way to progress is to talk to another NPC "merchant" you met early in the game and since have met about 70 other NPC since, how people figure this nonsense out is beyond me. Other than that, boss battles are generally fairly amazing and the lore is simply amazing. You'll have to piece the story together yourself but it's there. The world is huge and it is amazing fun finding new things constantly. There is a great deal of detail and you can see where the devs put their passion. A good game where "strategy" is key and even if the strategy is "cheesy" it's still a legit strategy. Remember everything is fair game in war. helpful tips: GET A BOW - I don't care what class you play, bows are awesome and a great tool. You can use them to snipe enemies and lure enemies out of groups and generally have a bigger range than even magic. You can pick up a long bow early from the husks at the roundtable hold for 1000 runes and buy standard arrows from most world merchants fairly cheap. Husk Merchant - located in the roundtable, has some very useful items for sale and inventory expands when you bring Bell Bearings back, some of the most useful ones being Smithing-Stone Miner's Bell Bearing which allows you to buy infinite 1-3 smithing stones and Iji's Bell Bearing for somber smithing stones. There are better ones and ones that allow you to buy higher smithing stones, too! the bells have no other use so make sure to always hand them over to the husk merchants. Exhaust NPC dialogue - just do it, speak to every NPC until they start to repeat themselves. Sometimes later, they will offer helpful advice only if you met the interact prerequisite. Ashes - Use them, they are great and make sure to upgrade them in the roundtable (via Roderika). A good Offense is sometimes the best Defense - Here it's absolutely true. sure, it's great to avoid damage but just defending WILL get you killed. crafting items - so many useful items to craft...namely a cure for poison (which you will be poisoned a lot). You expand your crafting abilities through cookbooks. One that comes to mind is the Armorer's cookbook [2] which you get from the coastal merchant in western Limgrave.
Absolutely in my top 5 games of all time. I platinumed this game, but only reason it is not a 10/10 is because I think they should still have a difficulty setting. A buddy of mine does not like souls like games because of the difficulty and it would have been nice to play with him. Had there been some sort of difficulty setting then maybe the game becomes more accessible for others
The Fromsoftware's magnum opus, this game is the pinnacle an open world that is instigating, vastly big and so full of content that I took 195 hours to complete the first playthrough.
I love this game its so enjoyable just wandering about and descovering new things about the lore of the game and new items i have well over 300 hours and still growing a must buy for any veteran souls gamer and new souls gamers best game in recent times my GOTY
The best game of soulsborne sereies and probably the best game I have ever played. Open world fits this game like an good old shues. Must play for all Fromsoft fans, very good (if not the best one) entering to this franchise for others. My friend did not play any of soulsborne game before, now he is 100 hours in and can’t stop playing.
This game is a masterpiece! Better than Bloodborne and Dark Souls 3. Which is very tough to beat both games. Elden Ring capture rich and beautiful architecture and gorgeous with dark fantasy. It’s easier to get into and very assessable to new coming players. I’ve been playing Souls since DS1 on 360. But this game is on whole another level. I’ll give it 100/10
This is my first ever review, signed up to Metactic today. I am 57 and have been gaming for over 40 years starting with a Spectrum ZX81, Elden ring is probaly one of the best games I have ever played. I have never played a From Software game before, but this is just amazing. Its the exploring and discovering new quests and new areas (With the help of Youtube) I just dont want it to end, I am hoping DLC will be out by the time I have finished. My advice take your time and savour every moment of this fanatstic experiance. Just be prepared to die......a lot, but this is part of the just one more go, its not going to beat me feeling which is missing from a lot of games. Do you sell a favour buy it now and ignore any bad reviews.
Elden Ring is a remarkable open world filled with excitement. Outstanding Open World, Graphics, Combat, Details. If you are a souls fan, this game is for you
This game is a Masterpiece OOOHHH ELDEN ****!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Don't play this game, it will totally ruin every other open world game for you. This is a masterpiece.
Played on: PS5 Time played: 220h Short description: Elden Ring is a 2022 Souls-like, open world, third person, action role-playing game developed by FromSoftware and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. The game development was directed by be Souls series father, Mr. Hidetaka Miyazaki and in the creation of the lore was involved the famous fantasy writer Mr. George R. R. Martin. Story / atmosphere: 7/10 Elden ring is a lore driven game, inviting you to discover its world bit by bit, with each inscription read, question asked or simply by sitting on a rock and admiring the surroundings. A contemplative and solemn atmosphere that pervades the whole of Elden Ring that makes you feel lonely in the very best possible way. Unfortunately if the atmosphere manages to convince, the lore does not and fails to meet the expectations of such a great world. Gameplay: 10/10 Elden Ring's gameplay awesome, similar to the other Dark & Demon Souls games unmatched by any other game, with a sense of heft and precision that rewards patience and learning. You can fight on the ground or on horseback where possible which adds a new interesting set of mechanics and approaches. Graphics: 8/10 The graphics manage to create a great and convincing atmosphere, but very often disappoints either with the recycled assents from Dark Souls 3 or the below average animations of the created natural environment which do not fit in an open world game and break the immersion. Sound: 8/10 The sound is pretty minimalistic. At any given moment, there might be a little music in the background as well as the sound of the steady exchange of blows between you and your enemy, but nothing more. Some more effort should have been invested in order to highlight the important progression moments and contribute to the atmosphere of each visited zone. Game functionality and bugs: 8/10 I encountered no issues during my playthough, additionally the game runs awesome on the ps5 but only acceptable on the ps4 with some annoying frame drops from time to time. Value for money: 9/10 The game will definitely give you your money's worth if bought at around 50 - 60 EUR / USD / GBP, providing a nice open world Souls adventure. Conclusion: 8/10 Playing Elden ring is time well spend but it could have been much better with some more love and attention invested in creating a convincing world and setting because sometimes the perfect Souls gameplay formula is not enough in order to make an open game... Platform & play time: PS5 / 220h Elden Ring is a 2022 Souls-like, open world, third person, action role-playing game, developed by FromSoftware and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. Story / atmosphere: 7/10 Elden Ring is a lore driven game, inviting you to discover its world bit by bit, with each inscription read, question asked or simply by admiring the surroundings. A contemplative and solemn atmosphere pervades the entire Elden Ring that makes you feel lonely in the very best possible way. Unfortunately if the atmosphere manages to convince, the lore does not and fails to meet the expectations of such a great world. Gameplay: 10/10 Elden Ring's gameplay is awesome, similar to the other Dark & Demon Souls games, unmatched by any other game, with a sense of heft and precision that rewards patience and learning. You can fight on the ground or on horseback, where possible, fact which adds a new interesting set of mechanics and approaches. Graphics: 8/10 The graphics manage to create a great and convincing atmosphere, but very often disappoint either with the recycled assents from Dark Souls 3 or the below average animations of the created natural environment which do not fit in an open world game and break the immersion. Sound: 8/10 The sound is pretty minimalistic. At any given moment, there might be a little music starting playing in the background but nothing more. Some more effort should have been invested in order to highlight the important progression moments and contribute to the atmosphere of each visited zone. Game functionality and bugs: 8/10 I encountered no issues during my playthough, the game runs awesome on the ps5 but only acceptable on the ps4 with some annoying frame drops from time to time. Value for money: 9/10 The game will definitely give you your money's worth if bought at around 50 - 60 EUR / USD / GBP, providing a nice open world Souls adventure. Conclusion: 8/10 Playing Elden ring is time well spend but it could have been much better with some more love and attention invested in creating a convincing world and setting because sometimes the perfect Souls gameplay formula is not enough in order to make an open game...
Elden Ring is one of the greatest games ever made. Vast and beautiful open world that offers cool rewards for exploration, deep combat system that allows you to make your own customized build with a HUGE selection of weapons and special weapon arts, wide variety of enemies that will always keep you on your toes as you explore the world, and SO MANY BOSSES that will present the best challenges for you. This game is hard. Do not approach your enemy without understanding that this world wants to KICK YOUR ASS. But as you progress your attributes and your weapons, it is honestly one of the best experiences a game can throw at you. You will feel absolute euphoria when you kill that boss that was destroying you. So, with all that being said, I recommend picking up this game. It’s so refreshing to see that a game lives up to AND exceeds the hype surrounding it. Easily GOTY and I’m here to stand behind it all the way.
Extremely good game, but a bit to long, almost 200h it took me. However sekiro shadows die twice i enjoyed more. But in 2022 this most likely will win game of the year award.
Just a great game. Not perfect maybe, bit it's got me going on for quite some hours now. Never really got into the demons souls games, altho something inside of me always wants to buy these kind of games because of the Lore and dark medieval fantasy theme (Well yes not bloodbourne and Sekiro obviously) . Now, with Elden Ring I finally manage to not get too frustrated and push on. The open world is a Nice addition to the series. Questlines are quite hard to follow sometimes. This game 'm going to finish! (With a smile on my face!)
I rarely post negative reviews but I feel like I need to in this instance. I was super excited for this game, I would say it was my most anticipated release of the year and it was the main drive in me purchasing a PS5 before playing. I’m extremely disappointed with it. There is no explanation as how to play, other than minor hints and a short tutorial and these are not enough as it’s quite a complicated. I put hours into researching how to actually play the game before being able to do so, which is not really what you want from a video game where you play to have fun and essentially switch off from real life. A Skyrim type intro would have been better to assist new players in learning the world and it’s dynamics. I’ve put hours and hours into this and feel as though I have gotten nowhere and it’s pretty much got to the stage where I feel like Im forcing myself to carry on playing. I have played the Soul games on PS3/PS4 and enjoyed these (with the exception of Bloodbourne, which I really did not like). Elden Ring, for me, really did not hit the mark. The combat and controls feel clunky and slow, which is not what you expect from a brand new game. You end up getting killed constantly pretty much for this reason. With the controls, it feels like you are playing in 2002 on a PS2 and not 2022 on a PS5. There are bugs (as you would expect), which I normally can overlook (I played Cyberpunk 2077 at launch and still played even though it was buggy as hell) however, I can’t overlook dodges continually not registering in combat and being killed because of this. When you are killed you drop all of the runes you have grinded for (you need runes for upgrading and purchasing) and are out back to wherever the last grace site was. It’s beyond frustrating. There’s no real indication as to where to go, so you are continually walking around lost. Sure, the grace sites point to where you should be going, however, if you miss one you are pretty much on your own and they almost always point towards some boss or other which is pretty much impossible to beat and you end up getting yourself killed or you have to run away and you’re lost again. This was also marketed very much on the fact that George RR Martin was involved in the writing. The sorry is lacklustre, stupidly complicated and nothing special, nothing is explained and you feel like you have no idea what the hell is going on. It really is not something which you would expect the creator game of thrones to have written (although he was involved in writing the final GOT tv series so maybe I should have expected it to be a bit rubbish) The scenery is amazing and it looks just as you would expect a true fantasy game to look, however it was not enough to keep me playing. TLDR: Overhyped, mediocre, complicated for the sake of being complicated, no direction and overall just crap
One of my few 10/10 games. It takes the best of these amazing DS/Borne games and perfectly meshes it with a huge open world. Can spend hundreds of hours in this game. I really enjoy this game. I’m amazed that they maintained the challenging aspects while giving us such a huge world.
Unfortunately I cannot comment on the game itself. Sony sells it in Asia with Simplified Chinese screen language (no English), which is not clearly mentioned in the description, then blames the publisher and customers for the problem. Lost my money on unplayable game.
Elden ring is the combination of everything that from software has been building up since they’re inception! It does away with Many of the traditional modern day gaming troops, time field in game tutorials, and dozens and dozens of hours of pointless handholding throughout majority of the game. From the first moments you step out into the ever expensive and beautiful open world that was Taylor made to be explored from every nook and cranny, you’ll be instantly Smitten by the vast array of ways you can traverse hilltops, mountains caves and other enormous areas fraught with danger! What I truly appreciate the most, is the array of different combat styles the game lets you seamlessly traverse through. Weather being dual welding samurai katanas, Giant great swords, bow and arrows are mystic ancient Staffs to do magic damage Do you enemies from afar, the amount of different character builds one can create is quite endless! The amount of enemies and hidden bosses within the game are quite mind blowing, and there’s no telling where are you stumble upon majority of them as you’re out exploring this beautiful world But the game isn’t without his flaws. The PS5 version I played had A number of technical issues biggest one being pop ins from the grass and foliage. There were a few occasions where I had severe frame rate dips in certain areas within the map which would lead me to restarting the game to help resolve the issue. I’d say one of my minor **** with the game will definitely have to be the cost at trolling players do with placing signs in very tightknit spaces or within chess greatly obscuring the interact item which was quite annoying from time to time. But what else can you expect from a souls like game. Lol All in all, is an amazing game and one that I highly recommend to anyone who May have had a passing fancy interest within souls light games. This is definitely the one that I highly recommend you start with first. And don’t let the talks of it being a very difficult game swear you, bear through it learn from your mistakes and persevere through and you’ll find a true diamond in the rough with this modern day classic! 9/10
Amazing game I have never played a souls game so it was very challenging to beat the game but I liked it
The last 5% of this game is an unbelievable mess. Lucky for everyone I suppose that the first 95% is an incredible experience.
Starts good then gets progressively repetitive and boring. Multiplayer is broken by cheaters who use exploits and farm runes. A niche game, rated 10/10 by bored critics who wanted another challenge. Ps. Just as niche as this review website with no function to sort through the bad user reviews, could have save me 60$
The game is addicting and has good collection loops. That said, addicting is not the same as good, and between the numerous camera concerns, instances of input lag, and core design requirement of endless repetition to overcome every new obstacle, it falls short of the mark.
Elden Ring blew my expectations sky high. I am currently about 120 hours into Elden Ring and am still finding caves and bosses I haven't even seen before. I have completed most character side quests and have beat almost every major boss in the game but I can't wait to explore the Lands Between all over again with a new build in new game plus. Exploring the world of Elden Ring has been such a blast. The game is absolutely massive without feeling empty. I couldn't go five minutes without finding something cool or interesting in the world. The environmental design and art direction for every area, npc, armor, weapon, spell, and boss is outstanding. The lore and story of Elden Ring always peeked my interest and made me want to look through every item description to learn more about the world. There are some very memorable side quests and moments that I don't think I will ever forget. Some of the bosses in Elden Ring are among the best I've ever fought. Nearly everything about Elden Ring feels handcrafted to perfection. The only problems I have with the game are that there are a lot of repeat bosses and many bosses or enemies have extremely hard to dodge attacks that insta kill anyone with a low enough vigor. Also the game has some problems that are hard to avoid due to its scale, like how its hard to know how to continue a side quest without a guide and some of the repeat bosses feel poorly placed. But these problems are relatively small because the rest of the game is genuinely amazing. Overall, I think Elden Ring might be my favorite game of all time but I need some more time to fully decide that. Also anyone who is new or hasn't played a soulsborne game should play try Elden Ring before other soulsborne games due to the massive access ability the game lends to players. But one thing that is for sure is I will definitely be picking up every fromsoftware title I haven't played yet (Dark Souls 1-3 and Sekiro) and I will be getting the platinum trophy for Elden Ring. I can't wait for the dlc.
This game is like good wine ... if you start you do not want to finish. You want to taste it, feel it ..
Finished it twice, both on standard and NG+ Best game in a long time. To the naysayers, just git gud
Elden Ring is a great game and the open world definitely brings a new sense of adventure to the souls formula. That being said. As someone who has played all soulsborne games. I'm pretty neutral towards Elden Ring. The game is good and the open world, especially on the first playthrough, is breathtaking and freeing. But with the open world the challenge and carefully crafted skillcurve has completely vanished. The game starts hard, becomes extremely easy, and gets unfairly hard at the end. I've beaten the game 5 times now and spent more than 200 hours with the game, so you'll definitely get your value. But as a package this game feels to me like the weakest of all Soulsborne games. Please fix the skillcurve or go back to linearity again. Pros: - Sense of adventure - Big world - Many bosses - So many gameplay choices! - Horsey - Pot Friend - Great questlines and legacy dungeons (including their bosses) Cons: - Underwhelming overworld bosses - Horrible skillcurve - So many dungeons not worth exploring - Godskin Duo can **** it
The game i have been waiting for so long. DS3 was awesome, but this is a masterpiece. Played it 3 times, achieved 3 endings. Fully recommended to anyone who wanted to play any DS game but was afraid because of its difficulty, but also for anyone who has experience with any DS game. The game is hard as expected, but because of the open world you can level up easily without defeating boss after boss and then everything gets much easier.
You've heard all the praise about this game. However, I feel at sometimes the game is genuinely too hard to the point where it detracts from the experience, but maybe you like a challenge. This one thing is nowhere near enough to make this a bad game though. I highly recommend it to experienced gamers, but not so much those who play games to relax.
This game is just boring. I wanted to like it, but it’s just too boring. Combat ****, graphics are okay but nothing special, story isn’t great. This game is just a waste of time.
This is the greatest game I have ever played!!! I can’t stop thinking about what I want to do next in the game. Would recommend to everyone who isn’t lame.
I've put in ~30h+ the time i'm writing this review. I have the PS5 version, running on performance mode, had no issues, slowdowns till now. A major issue with the game and gaming community is the ratings this game is getting.. 100 by "critics" is just stupid! don't get me wrong, it is a good game but nowhere near 100, and it can certainly greatly improve in several aspects. The Good : - Challenging game-play - Open world - you can go anywhere from the get go - Character & gear progression - Lots of weapons and armors to choose from - Lots of areas to search The Bad : - The AI is dog **** - you can assassinate a guard and hide, then another guard will pass by and not get alarmed or anything... i guess he thinks his buddy is sleeping or something. - No story tracking mechanism - In your adventures you will encounter a lot of npc, most of them have a story or quest for you. There is no mechanism that tracks that, some kind of journal with the npc name and the dialogue ( FFS ) even simple notes. - The story is like a cheap LOTR knock off Some points potential buyer should be aware of : Its a Souls game - thus its difficult Be prepared to die a lot, its part of the game. Some "farming" is required It doesn't hold your hand like most games, you will need to explore a lot. You will die a lot No idea how critics review this a 100, i really don't .. They must be some sort of Souls hardcore fans, but even fans should be able to point out that something is wrong and needs fixing. For me its closer to 7.5 , but thats just me..
After playing Bethesda crap games and ubisoft crazy games this is finally something so good and fresh like witcher 3 was 2015 10/10 deserved
The best open world I ever played. It's better than any dark souls, the dungeons are amazing, and the map is full of secrets. BUT the ending is really bad... Of the last 4 main bosses, 2 are so easy you wonder if there is a bug, and 2 are so badly designed, you won't believe it. It's a shame because the rest of the game is really polished, but the ending looks rushed and not balanced at all. I finished the game 3 times, with 3 slightly different builds, and everytime the endgame is the worst part...
This game is a gift to me, more than 100 hours and I still hyped about everything. Never been so invested since Bloodborne and Dark souls 3
A real masterpiece, don't trust people who have bought the it only to hate it.
No ENGLISH Version for many countries in ASIA in SONY Store !! Are you mad!!! WHAT THE HELL IS WRONG WITH BANDAI AND SONY eg. Singapore have english no chinese WTF Thailand no english HK no english by the way OVERALL is good just UI is so dumb could be better After playing on PC
I guess you could say that this is a Dark Souls meets an inferior version of Skyrim. The graphics and far from being next gen (I find the comparisons on this with Forbidden West hilarious). Frame rate ****. It's just another game that's hard for the sake of being hard leaving out a huge subset of players whereas Horizon Forbidden West gives the player a choice. If you love your game to be cheap and very difficult overall then you can have that. If you are just a casual player then there is that two and for everyone in between. Elden Ring? Nope. The big area of controversy lately has been between those who don't want much **** and those who want something like Witcher 3. Here again, Forbidden West gives you flexibility in choosing between a very detailed GUI to off when one doesn't want one or need it. This is very old school in everything from difficulty, graphics, game play, GUI and innovativeness (or lack thereof). In Forbidden West the graphics are photo-realistic, you don't feel isolated, it has more of a plot and the game play gives a wide range of different types. With that being said, if you love the Dark Souls type of games and/or retro games this is for you. Everyone else, good luck. You're going to at least being wanting to rage quite fairly often.
Tying coop with pvp is one of the most brain dead decisions to an otherwise excellent game. Some continuously argue that "it's part of the experience" or "just get good", it goes against the very fabric of the core gameplay which is play your way or play your build. PvE has always allowed for greater freedom in viable builds, while some builds are less efficient and others more, it doesn't truly matter as practicially any build will work throughout the entire game. PvP on the other hand is by nature an exercise in group intelligence. in PvP people quickly filter down to what works best and what works quickest. What this translates to, is a jarring difference in how the game plays out when youre PvPing or PvEing. So that comes back to my original complaint, that a forced invasion when you're playing with friends, turns a rather chill or relaxed exploration game, into yet another PvP meta game. If you don't run the cheese builds, or know of every explotative environmental advantage, then tough luck, you'll have to start all over again.
An incredible achievement that brings Souls games into an open-world. Just an absolutely massive amount of content between new areas, optional bosses, optional dungeons, and exploration that could probably last years. In fact, the amount of content becomes quickly overwhelming. I also found myself preferring the level design of Dark Souls Remastered or Bloodborne over the open world. Still an incredible game and highly recommended. 9/10
I can not say that this game is the best ,game of the year .For me it's just repetitive,long,with very poor graphics and often **** most you struggle to do level up ,to run after a weapon that you upgrade to be able to pass a boss otherwise you have no chance,can not select difficulty.Sometimes during some fights you can not press the buttons if you do not confirm something you have previously found, for example a weapon. The graphics are pitiful for a super "AAA"game,Demon Souls has 10 times better graphics.Those repetitive bosses, a long world, big but useless. I do not recommend, I recommend only Demon Souls to those who ask me. The last game from Software,I've played Bloodborne before. I will not repeat the mistake buying another game from Software.
A chic and challenging game. Very beautiful monsters and the world. It's a pity the camera behaves inadequately and there are a number of other problems, but all this can be forgiven. It is impossible to forgive the discrimination of players from the Russian Federation, but I did not buy this game (through no fault of my own), I am forced to raise the flag with Jolly Roger!) Therefore, there are no special claims to the game)
Most people have given this game a 10/10, which I can agree with, up to a point. The good: - The map is huge and varied - the enemies are all beautifully designed and are well animated - the game's difficulty, paired with the high map allows for "if you struggling in one place, give up a go some else", simply brilliant - the combat is oh so very satisfying once you find the right play style - "most" of the bosses are challenging but possible to defeat after you've given them a few hundred goes. - the story (while of course being very vague) is interesting and once you get down to it, have the good old George R.R. Martin spice that he applied to The Song of Ice and Fire books. The Bad: - a few bosses are bloody awful, there's one near the end of the game that is so poorly thought out you'd think the developers were playing a joke on you which you can't even laugh at the cause of how un-fun it was to fight this, and this wouldn't that bad if you could just ignore it and go somewhere else, but you have to defeat this boss in order to finish the game, so I'm sitting here thinking "F--- you FromSoftware" bash my head in every time I die. All and all, I am extremely happy I played this game despite the many times it beat me down, I will never forget the way I finished it, the final boss had me are 10% health, and I had no way to heal myself, so I just thought "F--- it" and hammered away at its health, perfectly dodging every attack, it eventually got to the point where we were both one hit away from killing each other, it tried to grab me, but I dodged through it and killed it, and the feeling I got from that moment is something I will never forget. This game is a masterpiece and everyone should try it.
Awesome game this sets benchmark on how games should be designed ,story telling and lots more. I came from sekiro as big fan of that alone title expection were high from ERing and its outstanding,never played darksouls or fan of ds like **** sekiro and elden ring is gem. I own and played elden ring both on pc and ps5 .Its still feel satisfying. Tip is to play with calm, learning and relax mind .you will love playing time and again once you get the rhythm.
This game is just a masterpiece Every time I say I found everything if find a new things that keeping me playing its just wonderful
They should've stopped after Limgrave and than my oppinion wouldn't be so negative. Bad grafic for 2022, way to repetitive, way to much enemy recycling, bad balancing.
After 150 hours, I love this game with all my heart. Everything you like in Dark Souls series is here. And jumps, and a horse, and amazing locations, and badass bosses, and traps, and Patches! :D My favorite part is a story that you need to uncover by putting some effort into collecting information piece by piece in a huge open world. I still feel like I missed something. No glitches and performance issues Oh, my God, I just love this game. 10/10
This is the weakest souls game in my opinion. Yes, its the biggest of them **** yes it is...well that is probably all. The size of the game means you will run from place to place longer, but that does not make it any more interesting as game does not reward you for your exploration. You will find hidden dungeons and caves, but the rewards of completing them are meaningless and most of the time useless. Items you receive in early game are superior to items from later areas. Balance is appoling. Spells you get with a starting character are better than 90 percent of all the spells you will find in the game later. Weapon upgrades make no sense as to upgrade regular weapon is more expensive and tedious than boss/exotic weapons. Game is buggy. Lost millions of souls because the game decided to bug out on me. Enemies hitting you through the walls, game favours particular style of playing (bleeding, sorcery etc.). Boss fights are designed poorly by all difficulty being almost non existing windows when you can hit npc. Weapons have combos what you will never gonna use on boss as there won't be window big enough to finish it. However, it is still better game than most of crap that was released in the last few years. That says a lot about gaming industry.
I've never played Soulslike game before but I am completely hooked up with this game that I've never played another game on PS5 AND XSX. It is simply a masterpiece game that I feel like I actually live in the world. Closest one I found fun like this was Skyrim and Zelda... Amazing game!
I loved this game when it first came out but every single update has made me want a refund. They've made so your mount will run forward just by being on it. Spells will target directly into the floor; they've booster enemies coding to react to controller actions predicting player movements. I get that part of the appeal is supposed to be the randomized structure of the same move behaving several ways but it being based off camera angles means you will use the same move 3 times and sometimes they will go 3 times the distance and sometimes they simply work only directly in front of you. I hate these updates and I liked the game I bought but hate the game theyve updated it into
Really great game. Cool atmosphere nearly 100h played and it still makes a lot of fun.
One of the greatest games I ever played. Large world filled with wonder. Gameplay 10/10
This game is fun! graphics are good, fun combat and amazing armor I see people complain about performance issues but personally never had those issues
This games world is enormous and filled with things to do. The beautiful design and lore of this game is remarkable and each location you reach seems to tell a story in itself. Enemy design is unparalleled. Fantastic music and sound. Combat is smooth and there is tons of different builds to play with. The absence of a quest log fits so well with this game. Allows you to adventure, how you’re supposed to, and explore yourself without dozens of waypoints and markers. It keeps you immersed in the world. I’m constantly in awe of how beautiful some of the locations look and even some of the enemy designs. The game is very accessible. Yes it’s a hard game but you can make it easier if you want. Farming runes to over level every enemy you come across and certain builds make some bosses seem like a joke. But you can play how you want. That’s what makes the game very enjoyable for me. It’s easier than most souls games but not because the actual enemies and bosses are easier but because of the amount of different tools and ways you can come at these enemies. You can also just walk away, level up, and come back later. The difficulty is masterfully balanced. If you have been wanting to jump into the Souls series, this is the game to do it. Don’t let the difficulty scare you from this masterpiece ****. If you are stuck or need help with what builds you can use, there are plenty of guides out there. You can also use summons to make fights easier and take some pressure off of you. It’s the most accessible Souls game. Play it. You will not regret it.
One of the best Open-world games ever. Build customisation and NPC quest lines are the best in the series. This game manages to do so many things so well. The legacy dungeons are all excellent with some of the best bosses in the series. Dungeons around the world have some great puzzles and level design however enemies are often overused. The boss variety is also often overused which makes getting to the end of a level fell a bit anti climatic. Overall this game is excellent with a few noticeable flaws.
Best game of all time. Gameplay: 10/10 Story: 8/10 Graphics: 9/10 Difficulty: 8/10 Overall Enjoyability: 9.5/10
Awesome, easily 10/10. I really can't say much more. It's beautiful, well designed and every time I think I've seen it all, I find more. I'm a huge fan of RPGs, but this is very unique. No quest markers, no hand holding. You must find everything out for yourself. The detail is incredible, you just have to look, listen, read and find it all yourself. People are whining about the lack of story, go look and spend time finding it all out. The lack of quest markers and quest design. Go look and find it all out for yourself. If you do you will find the rewards are very much worth the searching. Game of the year for sure. 100%. One of the best games I've ever played.
This game is amazing. The open world is great and makes you want to keep exploring. A lot of the bosses are overused which can be a bit repetitive. In my opinion the quality of the open world and bosses in the endgame drop a bit with a couple of exceptions. I really recommend this game but is has it's problems just like any other game.
The good game in fromsaftor good an gaming .. ...............................
Wow, such a deep interesting experience. Got me hooked good. I never expected an open world game could get me interested again, but ER worked for me better than any other game in the last 5 years.
The best souls game ever any one who like games with open world he will have fun but need a little bit guide from youtube or a friend also he can play with other players online 10/10
I never played dark souls series. Elden ring is my first. I have to say. It’s great game. But the open world doesn’t suit elden ring. Sure it’s fun to discover some things. Don’t get me wrong. I’m not saying give me smaller maps. Why is this game full of bosses. Im glad we get way more than expected. Most games are half of content. And the rest with micro transactions…. Anyway I’m at NG+5 I already defeated elden beast 4 times. Around 200 hours In the game. First I was confused what to do. Im not that stupid. But there is literally no guide to see where u have to go. I guarantee everyone in elden ring search YouTube or googles it. Where to go after the first site of grace. I don’t wanna look on YouTube or google it. But this game made me do it. I like a challenging game. But I don’t wanna die like 100 times ( talking about first play through ) after the end game. It felt like it’s done. Why go to NG+. Yea maybe we mist a quest then u can do it again from there. Anyway. After ng+2.. I was farming a lot of runes. Also side bosses… then I just went for main bosses. That’s it. Didn’t care about anything else anymore. It feels really boring…. No hate. My score was first 9/10. But now after ng+5. It drops down to 5/10 Btw.. after patch update in late April. On PS5 it feels slower when I do combo sword attacks. My stamina gain slower aswell. Try rivers of blood katana. Use the blood skill. Then u will see what I mean. ** My final score is 5/10. ** What a shame. I really liked this game. But going back now. Why would I? Multiplayer coop. Takes forever for someone to summon me. I already defeated the boss. I wait for someone else request my help. But then it takes ages. I had to wait 15 mins. I just cancelled it. Go to ng+ again cuz there is nothing to do. All the bosses I defeated are gone I give another try if we ever get a DLC. But for now. No thanks.
Good game but total overhyped World is good but moving in it not so much cause the horse movment and precious charakter movement is not realy a thing
Contrary to most reviewers, I loved the open world and spent 180 hours in this game. After that time one might think I would leave at least mixed review but unfortunately late game has displayed too many problems and I have to put negative review now. I played every souls game starting from demon souls. For me what was very important in every souls game is combat mechanics, that is the only thing that truly (gameplay-wise) separates souls game from any slasher-type game. Mechanics like where one has to commit to attack, because there is no way to cancel its animation, mechanics when weapons get stuck in the wall, different move sets of different weapons, etc. All these mechanics got basically destroyed by introducing customizable ashes of war and posture system. Ash of war is a skill that you attach to the weapon and can use while bearing that weapon. The problem with them is that contrary to the weapon balance these things are absolutely unbalanced. This is obviously clearly visible in the late game, as the difficulty ramps up at some point you have to either oneshot-twoshot enemy with your weapon art or commit to long battle using regular attacks. I have a faith build so couple of examples with my build would be: 1) Blasphemous blade. Regular attacks hit for 300-500, weapon art hits for 1200+ in AOE and heals you 20% for every enemy hit. What is the point to use anything but these ashes of war in combat? 2) Godslayer blade. This one bad boy just deals straight up to 3000+ dmg to enemy, while normal hits are in the area of 400-600. Its not aoe, so it is not always usable, but when it is - there is no point in using anything else. 3) Any other weapon. The best ashes of war for my build would be incredible flames of the Redmane. This bad boy staggers any enemy in the game in couple of hits. On top of that, the HARDEST hitting spells in my arsenal such as flame take thee will hit for about 1000-1300. So these ashes of war make not only weapons, but also MOST of the spells redundant. What is the point in parrying enemy if you can just get them into posture break with flame of the redmanes? What is the point of dodging if you could use bloodhound step instead? Basically, From Software took all mechanics that made their games great and just tossed them all out of the window with unbalanced, absolutely over tuned ashes of war. What's worse, there are very few ashes of war that are actually interesting to use, most of them is just ONE BIG HUGE HIT IN AOE. For example, there are very few ashes of war that would allow you to somehow better your positioning and they are locked behind unique weapons. So if you imagine how you would wield two curved swords and jump around with ashes of war to keep distance from enemies - forget that, you are not getting it. What you could get though is a HUGE BIG HIT IN AOE, enjoy. Second thing I mentioned was posture break. This thing is also terribly over tuned on several types of attack. These are guard breaks and jump attacks. When you wield two heavy weapons there are no point in doing anything but jump attacks. If you wield one heavy weapon, fastest way to defeat enemy would be spam guard breaks. That's it, there is no more depth to the game. I really do not like the directions these games are going and as a big fan it is incredibly disappointing. Even games like Assassins Creed which are often used as an example of lazy game development now have more in-depth combat than famous souls series and this it is utterly disappointing.
Masterpiece. One of the best games in the last decade! Need more games like this
Hours Played: 300+ Hours (still playing) Trophy Completion: 42/42 PLATINUM Worth My Time: Yes, easily a 500+ hour game. Worth My Money: Yes, you definitely get your money's worth. What I Like: It's the souls formula in an open world and it works well. So if you enjoy both genres like me, then you're in for a treat. Mostly a familiar trek to those experienced, but adds just enough variety and new stuff to keep things interesting. What I Dislike: It's a PS4 (PRO) game through and through. Nothing is being taken advantage of specifically in the PS5 hardware. In fact, the performance can be quite subpar at times. Magic is OP in both PVE and PVP in this game. Great if you like magic, **** if you don't. How It Stacks Up: I still prefer the Dark Souls series. This game does some great things, but it also falls short in some aspects. Assets are reused quite a bit, despite the core gameplay being addictive. PVP is in a bit of a sorry state right now unless you use magic. Difficulty is more forgiving due to lots of checkpoints and less severe death penalties, but the game is still long and treacherous. It's a must play.
A lot has already been said about the superb lore and gameplay, and for that, I laud the developers. But for goodness sake, when will they fix the English language issue in Asia? I spent the money to buy the game just like everyone else around the world did, so why am I stuck with a version **** that runs in languages I don't understand? It's been 2 months, and it seems that nothing is being done to fix this issue. NOT EVERYONE IN ASIA IS CHINESE, KOREAN, THAI, OR JAPANESE.
Amazing game. Everything about it is just perfect. The gameplay is fun and exhilarating and the world is fun to explore and packed with things to find. It's also probably one of the prettiest games I've ever played. The spells look amazing. It has that classic From Software feeling put dialed up to 10. However, the horse is kinda buggy sometimes, but I've rarely had problems with that, especially after the recent patches. I also feel like the crypts get tedious because they are all kinda the same. But there's dogs-I mean, turtles. In short 10/10. Must play
Elden Ring - A huge world filled with filler content. For me the game was ok, but not more. I really liked the huge variety of weapons and ashes of war that enable a huge variety of playstyles. What really bothered me is the low variety of bosses and their quality. A lot of the non-story bosses feel not very well designed and are repeated too often, e.g. the tree avatars that are the asylum demon from Dark Souls I with an AoE attack. Quite some bosses also appear to have infinite stamina, which turn the fights into dodge spamming. Unless you have upgraded your spirit ashes and summon them. Then a lot of fights become trivial. The legacy dungeons are top notch, but the smaller dungeons / places often feel like a cheaper version of souls games. Overall, the quality of most areas and bosses seems to have suffered strongly from the sheer size of the world. For me this results in a game world that is filled with filler content.
It was a souls maserpiece. The bosses were intimidating and the performance was good but not great. The story was good as always, like the hidden statue and walls. Especially the game needs a bit more optimization on the consoles but as an average souls player, I believe from software will fix it so 10 out of 10! (note: I suggest to search hidden things and story on the internet if you're not VaatiVidya or Zullie the witch)
Best From Software Game so far. A Masterpiece in Open World and Action Role Play Genre!
Incredible game. I was a soul's noob when I started this game and have only now stopped playing to conquer all soul's games I can find. I played a small bit of this game prior to purchasing it and fell in love within an hour, the difficulty was there but it never felt unrealistic or cheap. Each death left me confident I could improve either my tactic or play style before rushing back in to take another attempt. Prior to this game, I attempted a few souls games such as Bloodborne but never liked some of the features (long runs back, lack of guidance, road blocks of "git good" or you can't proceed) but the open world nature of Elden Ring and some other quality of life improvements have negated these issues and produced not just an amazing game for me, but one that has opened my eyes to the entire soul's series. The world itself is large and sprawling but finding something to do feels very organic, no longer am I ticking off map marker locations but instead, I am stumbling accross interesting places to visit. Events such as running away from a group of mobs to find a crypt or opening a chest and finding more than I bargained for were all extremelty exciting experiences and I have fond memories of this game. The feeling of satisfaction when you defeat a hard enemy is amazing with this game, I haven't played a game like this where I have been stuck, strugling and banging my head against a wall only to keep going with a smile on my face since the 90's. One of my all time fav games.
i have 100% of achievements in this game and i didn't summon anyone ever BUT MARGIT margit made me use bleed builds so form starting 10/10 now its 7/10 bosses are just unfair -platinum hunter who played all games except demon's souls -2022
Elden ring is just an completed version of dark souls but it doesn’t make it bad although it makes the game real masterpiece
اراها تاخذ تقييم 0 لان ليس بها لغة عربية ومتحدثين اللغة العربية اكثر من نصف مليار I see it taking a rating of 0 because it has no Arabic language and Arabic speakers are more than half a billion
wonderfully distressing, the best game i ever play this year by far, thanks
This has to be one of the greatest games ever made. Deep lore, fluid combat, grand setting and scale, amazing graphics, rewarding and challenging fights, and a great community. Highly recommend diving in!
The game is really about making your own fun. It's not my type of game. Hope you have fun playing it.
This is the ultimate version of Dark Souls thanks to its vast and gigantic open world.
One of the best game I ever played in my entire life. I'm a big Nintendo fan and this game is hard for me, but I always played all the From Software since King's Field. I'm amazed. I'm amazed as a game dev and as a player. The work done is brilliant, it’s incredible. The Art direction, the background of each faction, the mood of desperation gluing everything together. This game is so brave, so courageous vs the actual market that It’s like a light beam in the night. Seriously, regardless of the type of game we like, we must protect this team.
As a new souls player I was like many other players apprehensive about purchasing the game. The first 6 hours were tough but vital for the rest of my adventure in the lands between. I died many times and didn’t gain any runes but I did enjoy the exploration and eventually I gained the satisfaction of killing a boss and some difficult enemies. After these 6 hours I experienced without doubt the greatest game I have ever played (2nd isn’t even close by the way). I’ve spent around 160 hours in the game and will be completing multiple playthroughs. Fantastic world design, exploration, multiple armor sets, weapons, skills, varied enemy design and some fantastic boss fights. My warning to new players is the game does not hold your hand and will not give you a clear path. You will have to explore and pay attention to the the dialogue for little clues and lore. If side quests interest you then you will need a guide. Some of the side quests are excellent and full of lore but easy to fail or get lost. I know some won’t like doing this but the lore, boss fights and rewards make it worth doing. I’m at the end of my first playthrough and have just defeated the hardest boss (optional) and already planning my next one. 10/10 Insane rating
One of the best games ever made. Fantastic open world game with a non-specific path to follow. It's just amazing the quality of this game, perfect to introduce new players to from software games. Totally recommended
Over the past decade FromSoftware have built a reputation as one of the most reliable developers around, and they’ve continued that form with The Elden Ring. In gameplay terms it retains much of the formula laid down by previous Dark Souls titles with players developing their characters to use melee weapons, magic or a mixture of both. The game is punishing, and it’s very easy to die, but the combat is incredibly satisfying and rarely feels unfair, especially since checkpoints are found more frequently than before. The biggest change is that, for the first time, FromSoftware have created a true open world. There was a concern that this could be to the games detriment, as the intricate world design has always been a huge part of what made their games so great, but “The Lands Between” are just incredible to explore. Unlike so many other games in the genre there isn’t an endless list of quests to complete, or icons to make your way towards, instead players are left to find the world’s secrets for themselves. And there are secrets to be found everywhere! If I was going to point out one negative it’d be the fact that many of the dungeons/catacombs play a little too similar, but that is just a small nitpick in what is a truly amazing game.
The game is amazing. It honestly deserves game of the year and game of the decade. Everything from the combat to the world building to the customization is phenomenal. You need to buy this game.
Now all the fake marketing hype has dissapeared the game reveals it's ugly colours. Unfortunately the gaming community seems to be controlled now by the 'Youtube commentators', they randomly choose a game to like and then we're all meant to be gushing about how in love we are with it. It has ugly graphics and ugly game mechanics. NPC's walk these pathetic linear paths 5 minutes after you've killed them, how does that make an immersive game? It's brutally difficult forcing a massive grind, the UI is ugly and not optimised for PC at all..... It's a horrible experience and It will sink in popularity as quickly as it rose. What makes me even more angrier is people slate AC games for changing their mechanics but praise this game when the mechanics in new AC games are quite similar; leveling, gear acquistion, and boss fights... The difference is the animations for fighting and overal experience is dynamic and fluid... Elden ring is just clunky and repetitive. I hate it. It's for sadomasochists that like Gothic metal fantasy, the type of art that biker gangs put on their beer bellies above their hairy chests.
This game really forces you to play co-op OP enemies Ashes of war bs Boring story Go kill 1,2,3.. boss Absolute mess It's flooded with stupid mechanics it forces you to use And the compat is is just not fun I was waiting for this game cause I adored bloodborne But what a waste of hours playing waiting for for the game to grasp me
The game is a masterpiece. As usual, some on the internet decided to bombard the game with negative reviews for absolutely no reason. Pay them no mind. The game is unlike anything you have ever played before - it is gorgeous, mysterious, the massive worlds feels rich and alive, everywhere you go there is something new and awe-inspiring to discover, the battle system is so fun and so engaging, it challenges you but if you ever feel stuck, you easily can go exploring and come back five times stronger. After playing this game twice and sinking almost 200 hours into it, I can easily say it is one of my top five all-time favorite games, hands down. Do yourself a favor - buy and play this game ASAP. You will NOT be disappointed.
I platined the game few days ago, and for me, is the worst souls game, except by Dark Souls 2. Elden Ring is too easy, boring open world, bad atmosphere, uninspired bosses, bad performance for today's standards, a lot of clipping and visual pop in, bad design for weapons and armors (see the bullgoat set for example). Lack of support on PS5, no 3D audio and feedback on dualsense. Bloodborne, Sekiro, Demon's Souls, Dark Souls 1-3 is aways better than this. Elden Ring seems to be based on pure marketing, nothing more.
Story: 5/10 Gameplay: 8/10 Graphics: 8/10 Enjoyability: 9/10 Overall: 9/10
Ask yourself: Do I really wanna play dark souls again? If yes this is the game for you, if no prepare to experience the same game slightly remixed since 2009
Played every souls like and this is by far my new favorite, the open world is gorgeous looking, the story is very in depth and there is a bunch of lore and secrets to discover, new players who have never played a souls like will most likely have a hard time figuring things out but the game will give you a tutorial to help you with combat, controls and exploration. if you have never played a souls like i still recommend playing and learning the game, don`t spent a few minutes and quit, spend atleast a good 5 hours so you can get used to it, must play
They improve alot love the open world and my money is not wasted buying Elden ring. More power FROMSOFT.
Fix your game! Worked great at launch, but you update and change the meta enough and now this game is horrendous! This is part of the reason I stopped playing CoD. One week it's semi balanced, A bunch of babies show up complaining, and now it's an unbalanced mess.
Masterpiece, this game is better than Gex. Very fun, challenging and erotic experience
Never played a dark souls game but this is easily one of the best games I’ve ever had the pleasure of playing. The world is so huge and expansive and the difficulty is basically optional based on the weapons and build you give your self so if your stuck on a boss or a certain area just go somewhere else and level up or find a sick new weapon to destroy everything with in the ginormous map. The only problems I have with the game is sometimes the controller would be unresponsive but it was very rare and that when you lock on to an enemy the game can just randomly lock you on to another enemy if you look in there direction which is very annoying in the heat of battle but you get used to it.
Honestly its a hard, but rewarding game. Many casual players will be scare away by the difficulty level of this game . However the grind is well worth the experience, the maps and open world is interesting and the exploration is very satisfying, it no linear and it can be a bit daunting , but being patient and levelling up and getting more skills and spells open up the game. The game is simply fantastic. You can keep playing hours and hours, honestly is one of those epic legendary games that will be reference for years to come. Cant praise it high enough. After 100 hrs I feel that I’m just scratching the surface if the game, the map is maaasive. Amazing game 10 out of 10
This is really one of the "must have" games and not only for souls games fans. The world is werry huge and searching for secrets and caves in the whole world is very alive and motivating (there is an adequate reward at the end of each challenge) and the feeling of satisfaction every time, after a lot of attempts, the sword cuts into the body of the annoying boss for the last time is again unbelievable and satisfying as in previous souls games.Well done from software.. you have gathered everything you have learned from the creation of previous great titles and put it all together in one amazing game .... I applaud.
All souls games in this one. I like this game at start, but at the end it was boring and I just wanted to end. Plot is good, in Miyazaki's style. Bosses are very good with hardcore as fans needed. I like this game for challenges that I had.
Dont be put off by the "not a souls veteran", it is not a pre-requisite to enjoy this game. I have always enjoyed games when I can select "easy" or normal, but this game does not induce rage in me , because every time you die, you can easily see what you did wrong there, and at no point does it felt unfair. The amount of stuff that is in the map is amazing, I used to really love FarCry 3, but could not finish FC4 and any assassins creed since brotherhood, even though I thought I loved open world, it is until now I realise I miss the feelings of discovery, of things that are genuinely different, and that the environment, the enemy placement and items tell a story to those who seek it. I believe its the best RPG since diablo 2
Wasn't sure if a Souls game would suit open world, took me about 8 hours to really get into it with the Wretch class, now I can't get enough of it, another From Software masterpiece . Could use a patch or two for performance issues but it doesn't distract from the enjoyment Souls games bring! Update: Not yet completed but over 350 hours played, what a game, brimming full of amazing content, bosses, secrets, loot. One of my favorite games of all time
This is the pinnacle of open world game. Exploration of the world rewards your time and courage. It is the most accessible Souls games and the absolute favorite, for me. Greatest game of the year, and probably of the last few years as well. Maybe it will be the greatest of the next years too. 10/10
New to the “Souls” genre, but this game is an excellent way to join this style of gameplay. Reminds me of Zelda Breath of the Wild kinda. The “feel” anyway, the combat is brutal, but with summons and the ashes of war that you can add to weapons are awesome ways to help make it easier.
I want to express my deep gratitude to everyone who worked on this game, as a fan of the series, it just went in perfectly, combined all the best that was in the previous series and surprised with a stunning open world and the form of its exploration, exploding landscape and labyrinths, a huge variety of mobs, weapons, bosses, clothes and so on and amazing design, for all these 100+ hours of sheer pleasure, I express my gratitude from the bottom of my heart
A fantastic game that ought to be on everyones must play list! Not sure why they couldnt have added a difficulty slider that grants more/less hp to players/bosses though
Never played souls before and this game made it possible to try it with short time and no **** The world story and characters are amazing.
PS4 or PS5 Versions: If you are an expat living in Asia or have the desire to play the game in English, tough luck because you will get the game in Chinese whether you like it or not. Sony will not issue a refund. Neither Sony nor Bandai is willing to announce that an English language pack is coming for English speakers living in Asia. The entire menu is in Chinese.
Elden ring is fun, but region locked languages are ****, can't change language makes the experience way worse. Especially when your friends and other people use english and you are the only one who uses Chinese. Normally this wouldn't be a huge problem, but lden ring is a extremely complex and the names of characters and items can get complicated sometimes. I hope they patch it out.
First off, not my first SoulsBorne game, I have played and finished DS1, DS2, DS3 and BB several times, this game has good visual, interesting lore and at first the exploration is fun and so is the PVP, but that's where the praise end, the game feels highly inconsistent, Bosses deal too much damage, are too fast and for some reasons can move cancel, they're made in a way you're expected to be with someone else, they have the speed to deal with 2 players, which makes It unfair for the ones alonethe fall damage is really weird, falls that shouldn't kill you do, and the ones that should don't, level desing out of the open world feel like a straight line, enemys deal too much damage, Boss and enemy desings are lazy, they all feel like a glob of meat with a lot of hands and legs, the game repeats A LOT of content, you will fight the same boss at least 5 different times, and depending If they turn into a common enemy even more, exploration gets old kick, the game has over 80 boss fight and 9 Bosses aren't reused, the game doesn't know how to space out checkpoints, so they're everywhere, and sometimes the game kills you very cheaply, most areas fell uniteresting, as basically everything is a forest, I don't think this Is a master piece.
The first time I regret not buying the game at release. I bought it as a 42€ key 3 weeks later. Now I am 100+ hours into the game without even finishing my first playthrough. And this won't be my last journey in the lands between. Imothe only flaw this game has is technical. Sometimes FPS drop, especially after the new 1,04 patch. The bossfights except the last ones (those are just OP tanky bosses with overpowered attacks) are amazing. The builds you are using do matter. Some people complain about the difficulty of a boss and you are like "what? I first tried it" and at another boss you have been struggling at some people got through with ease. The world looks beautiful, the lore is interesting even though not much is said and this game is just so much fun it's crazy. I never had that much fun in a souls game. I disliked souls game, Elden Ring is a real difference though. A real banger has to release, instead Elden Ring will be Game of The year. Deserved.
One of the best games ever made, easy. Might be the most fantastic world created on a videogame and such a mastery in everything it proposes to do. A truly milestone in the videogame industry. People will talk and discover secret things while playing this game for a really, really long time: months! years! This is huge! Just WOW!
When I first played it I got annoyed as it seemed too similar to previous games in the series. After over 300 hr of game time I can say that this is easily the best of FS and one of the best RPGs ever made.
Having an absolute blast with Elden Ring, I've got about 20-30 hours in so far and still plenty of content left to do, they definitely improved on the Dark Souls formula I'm surprised the user scores aren't in the high 8's at least. The PS5 games I have played so far have been underwhelming even with the increased power of the PS5 games seem to fall short as developers continue to push for graphics, how many realistic shadows they can render and more prettier lights instead of focusing on what matters which is solid framerate at a steady resolution which I am glad to say Elden Ring does perfectly and there are hardly any framerate dips in performance mode. This game isn't for everyone, if you have never played a souls game before ( Dark Souls, Bloodborne etc. ) you will find this game very hard, it is supposed to be hard it's not because you are bad, there is a steep learning curve and you need the patience to potentially run against a boss 100 times before you beat them, learn the mechanics, learn how to switch quickly between defensive and aggressive playstyles. This game is a 10/10 for me either because it is genuinely that good or because industry standards of what constitutes a good game have dropped so low lately Elden Ring outshines anything which releases today as it is a solid fun experience without the live service predatory monetisation schemes and the infuriating grindfest season passes which companies like EA and TakeTwo mandate in all of their game releases, Elden Ring is a game you pay for and you come home with a game and not a project to be fixed later down the line.
Elden Ring for Asia version doesn't have English in-game. I really want to play but i don't know any Chinese or Korean.
In shot incredible experience. Easily game of the year material. So much to do and explore and the variety is vast. Exploring is fun and varied and combat is challenging and the different options and ways to play are abundant. Good atmosphere and rememberable characters I feel I got way more than my moneys worth or what I was expecting.
First game I've ever platinum with over 200 hours of gameplay. This game is a masterpiece, made me want to explore every nook and cranny like no other. I had super high expectations and even then, it managed to surpass them. I've played all of fromsoft games, they managed to create the game of the decade.
Probably one of the best games ever made.... I won't give it a 10 out of 10 because of performance issues across platform and a lack of accessibility options(colorblind,etc....)
Great bosses, interesting locations, many weapons. Best fromsoftware game, must play.
A masterpiece.. not the best graphics and animations but the Design of the open World is the best i've ever seen
Masterpiece - gameplay is smooth, story is confusing but exciting, enemies are tough but manageable. Overall 10/10
This game has no english version on the HK PS store. Sony wont refund the game.
Love this game! Ultimate souls game with INSANE beautiful world full of new stuff to explore and find out all by yourself! Game has multiple mechanics u can try its just there its letting u do it how u want to defeat it and has like 6 endings u can do by your actions/quests/idk am still finding out :D. I played like 200hrs till i defeated it but still i have a lot to explore so. If u want a game that lets u do whatever u want and like u want it just there :) just writing this cuz many kids dont know how to play this game cuz todays games are just so dum :D anyway :D love it cant wait for dlc :) just play it by yourself :) love u fromsoft
Empty world, no storytelling, dated graphics. Combat is somewhat fun and art direction is good and inspired. A good example of how marketing and hype are becoming more important than quality.
The culmination of all of Fromsoft's previous works. A true masterpiece. Will go down as one of the greatest games of all time. People who are leaving negative reviews must not have known what they were getting into or struggled due to difficulty (overcoming challenges is the point of the experience).
So many wasted hours invested into obtaining items and moves, then the developers later take away the usefulness if these items. They call it nerfing, but it's just anti consumer business practices.
Elden Ring is Fromsoftware's best game so far. GOTY 2022 without a doubt ;)
one of the best games I ever played, amazing open world and combat and made me enjoy souls like games.
Bought the game in HK PSN store, why this game does not support language change ? There are Asian countries do not use CHN as 1st language, so fix this problem don’t be racist , FS.
Masterpiece in making... game should be like eldenring ,more to game play than money ...
This game is incredible, and truly shows us what a RPG should be, you explore as much or as little as you like. Its a vibrant beautiful and brutal world!! Amazing game 10/10 would recommend to any and all. whether you have played any From Software games before or not!!
Waste of time and nerves, nothing more to say. The worst thing its that people praise this **** like is the second coming of Jesus. Pathetic way for this people and also From Software became a company without shame.
My truthful honorable incorruptible conclusive rating of this considered game: 9.
Although it is beautiful and the design is great, enemies are so dumb and robotic it feels like you're playing a vintage game that's had a very expensive face lift. You can sneak up on enemies that are directly looking at you and avoid almost any foe with ease. And I'm not playing on easy mode. Forget about range weapons, these seem to be an after thought. Menus and leveling system are pretty poor too. Still can't make sense of how to map certain items to shortcuts. Not what I'd expect for a premium title.
This is not a great game. It’s lifeless - it’s a brutal slog in an empty world. This is a ‘to each their own title.’ Some have it a 10/10, to which I scratch my head.
Great feeling of exploration, the world is huge. Boss fights are amazing.
GOTY EASY unless Valve decides to drop Portal 3 Outta nowhere I don't see how anything beats it. One of the major elements that makes this game so incredible is it's open world. The open world doesn't feel forced like many games but feels like a natural evolution of dark souls. A problem I have with open world games is how many times story telling is done through dialogue. This isn't bad but is quite a lazy and forceful way to approach world development. Dark Souls has the habit of letting it's world speak for itself and that aspect of dark souls compliments an open world design. Elden ring also has a plethora of weapons to experiment with and build your character around. The element of respec ing brought in from Dark Souls 2 allows you to experiment with your build. The enemy variety in this game is off the charts although plenty of bosses are reused. It can get tedious to fight the same boss again with only minor changes but all of the repeated bosses are optional and something you mainly just fight for better loot so you can fight other harder bosses more easily. There are a few late game bosses with are overly aggressive but 2-3 hours for frustration in no way sours the hundreds of hours of enjoyment you have in this game. The main quest is quite straightforward and easy to follow but some side quests will require you to go really out of your way to complete which is something a lot of people might not like but a counterpoint to that is these quests enhance the sense of discovery like no other game does. If there was a straight line pointing you to all the right places the open world would lose a lot of it's meaning. I don't want to talk about the graphics of this game as there are the beta cucks that complain about them whenever a single ray of light doesn't bounce of their character's **** at the right angle but it's safe to say that Elden ring is a beautiful game and it's art direction is out of this world that more than makes up for it's graphics which are already pretty good. The only thing I can complain about is maybe the multiplayer, dark souls has never had a good history with multiplayer although the net code is better than it's previous games it's right now far from ideal and a few balancing issues plague the game as well as certain weapons that are fun to use in single player aren't very fun used against you in multiplayer, it is a minor gripe however something I've learnt to let slide as the souls community when it comes to multiplayer is very good and sometimes the toxic parts can be fun. If you are a souls fan you are guaranteed to love this and if you aren't this game will definitely make you want to go back and try out their other titles (I recommend bloodborne it's my personal favourite). This game is definitely a masterpiece and has me looking at Fromsoftware with eager eyes to see what they come up with next as it will has big shoes to fill.
The only true game ever made. All other games are below this. The pinnacle of human achievement. Mind blown
Never thought I'd say this, but this game is better than WaW. Unbelievable.
This game exceeded all expectations. I expected it to be as good as previous souls games (which would make it a masterpiece by default) but it's somehow even better. Absolute work of art.
90 hours in and not even finished. The scope of this game is insane. We'll be seeing "Elden Ring - likes" for the next good while
I'm a souls veteran who finished all games multiple times, spent around 1000h in total playing FromSoftware games, 150h in Elden Ring, and I couldn't figure out why there is so much hype about this game which is clearly the worst of all souls-games (besides DS2). Now I think I figured it out. FromSoftware told people that Elden Ring is not Dark Souls and it is more accessible to regular players. Both information is a lie obviously because Elden Ring IS Dark Souls 3.5 and IS much more difficult than other souls because of bad boss fights balance, bad locations balance, and unhandled balancing issues caused by open world. Therefore, my guess is that people giving 10/10 are mostly new players in the genre who have experienced the souls game for the first time and obviously any souls game will give you this amazing feeling of accomplishment. Even though Elden Ring is the worst of all FromSoftware games in terms of lore, performance, balance, dialogs, and boss design. So they give 10/10 to the game that is different than anything they previously experienced, not knowing that this is not the best the genre offers :). Btw. Elden Ring has the worst user reviews score from all souls games on Metacritic. I guess soon Elden Ring players will play other FS games like Bloodborne and will realize that Elden Ring is not the best souls game :) then reviews will be updated.
Simply amazing. From the intriguing open world to the adapting combat this game will go down in history as one of the best ever made.
Good game, but performance is inconstant. Incridable bosses and graphics art.
Where do I begin after playing 100+h and reaching the last boss exploring every corner of the vast open World I can confidently say if you are a true gamer you will enjoy this game it gi es you freedom to do your own aventure there's always something to explore a new área a new ítem whit a piece of the lore and giving you new info about the the game makes you feel like you are really out there adventuring on your own its that it doesnt have clear quest makes like other titles but that jus makes it more enticing you have making it so you have to interact with every npc you find truly explore to fino solutions to your quest. In a few words its a great game Looking it objectively and truly playing and learning how to explore without spoon feed information for the quest will make you want to play more, there's people that complains about the dificulty but that just make it much more rewarding when you achieve your objectively or defeat a boss that took you many tries. Its an adventure that anyone that like a challenge and exploring shouldn't miss.
This is my first time playing a FromSoft game and I'm loving it. Even if you cheese this game it's still fun. 10/10 game
Just a perfect game. Vast open world with pretty much no squandered opportunities. Vast amount of weapons, skills and play styles. And **** BEAUTIFUL graphics at times. The game is difficult at times and will temporarily piss you off but once you overcome the hardship you will feel a great sense of accomplishment. This game is great. It’s my first time actively playing a Souls game, and it’s probably the best one to enter the series with. I plan on playing the rest of the Souls series in time.
Best souls game when i playen in ever in my life.recomindated everyone.very interesting
Lol people are mad that this is gonna be goty 2022 ,anyways this is my favorite souls game and really like the dark souls gameplay loop in the open world setting! Definitely gonna go back and finish ds3 and bloodborne after elden ring.
Open world not so open, clunky combat and controls. Go from point to point hoping not to have to maneuver around the god awful cliffs, only to find out the world isn’t so open. You can’t just go anywhere, there is roadblocks from area to area with the occasional workaround to get into the area. The targeting lock is horrid, boss fight will frustrate you as you have to continue to run, dodge or block, most of the time will be spent spinning around trying to get a lock on just to spin forward because you can see the boss but the targeting system is designed to turn you 180 degrees if you miss the lock. Can’t use your map while freely roaming if an enemy has seen you, it doesn’t matter where he is, you will be forced to wait it out to use the map. Torrent is a gimped horse who turns like an 18 wheeler, however the game has instances where you have to use torrent to navigate the horrendous cliff system. The game is the easiest of the dark souls, game mechanics severely hurt this game, “git gud” means memorizing the path over and over and dealing with game controls. The bosses are scripted and ignore anything you do. The environment is a visual and nothing more, bosses ignore it. The target lock system is random and will have you targeting behind the guy about to bash your face in. Two guys running at you and a third stays back out of range and the lock on will select him, if not him it will be a random deer. Anything but the guy directly in front of you. Mechanics kill the fun. There is no coop multiplayer, it’s a pvp invite, even when using a password. Goty? Nope…this belongs in the trash. Metacritic reviews are junk.
Elden Ring could be another dark souls but it shines in its own way with good story, difficulty and atmosphere
People saying the graphics are out dated on other worldly drugs and their reviews should not be taken seriously. They are just big mad because they can’t beat it. Fantastic game!
That game is amazing. A very good art design and graphics. A gorgeous open world that you don't want to stop exploring. The map is gigantic and full of details. And with each exploration, new things to discover and new enemies to defeat. Wide variety of equipment and items. The new combat options work very well. Basically they used the best features of the olds SOULS games. For me is the best SOULS.
What a beautiful game, I've only spent 70 hours on this game and expect I'll spend much more. The graphics aren't the best but the art style far more than. Enthralling lore to find all throughout the world and some or the most epic boss fights I've ever played whilst gaming, I can't wait to find all the lore and other things I may have missed along the way!
Short review: I imagine you will like this game if your favorite movies are thrillers or horror movies. However, mine are not, so I just thought it was ok. I recognize it as a masterpiece of its genre, but it is far from my favorite game. Long review: There is plenty of lore (backstory), but the gameworld is a broken and unattractive place, devoid of any viable communities that could theoretically rebuild the world. I never felt a sense of wonder or desire to be a part of the world being depicted, and not once did I fantasize about living or being in the lands between (the gameworld), which I do in the best games I play. At best I felt curious about how the place became so miserable, but that's about it. I was also never drawn in to the story by a desire to become Elden Lord. The closest thing to a community I found in the game was a crazy group of culty enemies, so why would I want to rule such a place? Since the game is just about killing basically everything, it would have made more sense if the game was a story about revenge. At least then perhaps I would have felt some motivation to kill things (other than disgust at their gross appearances). The game's exploration if fun, and I like the lack of objective markers everywhere. However, I wasn't exploring for the love of the world (everything is too dark and disgusting for that), it was just out of a desire to find the rare item that would help my build so I don't die as much. The first 10-15 hours or were much better (limgrave and the weeping peninsula), when I still experimenting and trying to settle on a build, but after that the game became increasingly tedious. Boss fights can be thrilling, and beating bosses can give you jolts of adrenaline and excitement. If that's what you like then this game is for you. If you like experimenting with combat builds then this game might also be for you. If you can, try playing at a friend's house before buying.
I'm not going deep into what everyone already knows, this game is good but not great. Instead I will point out the Good and the Bad about it. If you expect the challenge of any other SoulsBorne game you are in for disappointment, and I'm not referring to how hard it can be with bosses and enemies, no. It is about the way you "fight" in this game. Use of magic is forced into ANY build now, so there is no 'DEX' build anymore, which on other Souls games was also called the 'challenge' mode, where you build up your character to use melee and be prepared for some face to face combat with skilled and nimble fights. The Good: - This game has by far THE BEST level design of any game of its generation, castles and terrains very well planned with inter connected areas, beautiful. - Good amount of weapons to try out. - Challenging enemies. - Great story. The Bad: - Magic is forced into any build, and it's must if you want to survive an invasion (on you or by you). - Weapons are basically magic wands, making the game a run and shoot kind of game. Melee becomes useless. - Utterly unbalanced spells and skills. Some of them become a one-hit kill while others are a joke. - Almost all armor sets are dresses, forget about all these cool designs of all other Souls games for either Type A or B body types, get used to look like deacon. - The armor alteration 'mechanic' is a bad joke, you can only remove the cape of the armors/dresses that have one. - Areas to explore (that are not castles or buildings) start amazingly designed and a joy to traverse, but such design starts to become plain and boring the more areas you advance in the game. At the end it's just large flat boring terrain lazily filled with enemies just to have something in. The game length feels artificially stretched half way through, I would have preferred the game to last half of what it takes with all these lazy designed late game areas removed. Long story short, if you like to spam spells while running away from enemies (computer or humans) you are in for a treat, because it's this game's main mechanic.
I played all the souls-borne games from Demon's Souls to Dark Souls 3 (except Sekiro) loved (almost) every second of them. So It pains me to say Elden Ring is absolutely overrated. Poor enemy design, ton of copy-paste enemies, technical issues, bad performance, bland open-world, terrible balancing of weapons, enemies, stats etc. Art style and the world of Lands Between (except Caelid lol) is breathtakingly gorgeous, soundtrack and (some of the) bosses are also very good, but otherwise this game is lacking in a lot of ways that previous games weren't. There's a great game hidden beneath all the issues, but over-hyping and undeserved praise from blind, stubborn people will prevent the game flourishing up to it's potential.
This game is a masterpiece. I've only played one other fromsoftware game ds3 and this game is a real improvement. I love the open world gameplay, because in ds3, if I was stuck on a level, I just had to redo it and redo it, but in this game, I could just explore some other place, and that just never went old. I could keep exploring for a long time, and I still found interesting thing's . The bosses were great./ the sartstylewas neat. Just an incredible game, one of the best I've ever played
One of the best games not only due to the game-play but also the world surrounding it and the exploration possible.
I love this game my only complaint is that its so good to the point where It can be addictive. Other than that the story and combat are amazing the pure size and complexity of the map is extraordinary 10/10 definitely would recommend.
Great Gameplay. Tight controls. Nearly perfect combat. Amazing graphics for a cross Gen game. Great replay ability. Very in depth exploration and discovery. The Bad. Landscape pop in. Slight frame dips in quality mode.
F* good and adicttive game. Very challenging, you have to use wiki and tips to proceed. There is no so clear path to follow. The combat engine is complex and challenging. Beautiful graphics and amazing history. Best RPG game ever made until now.
Excellent addition to FromSoft’s roster. Had more fun with this than any of their previous titles which is saying a lot. Cannot wait for DLC installments. My game of the year for sure.
Its literally anything i would ask for.. Typical from software formula with a breathtaking open world to explore and get lost in for hours
I only started playing Souls games after Bloodborn was released, and have enjoyed them mostly. Elden Ring, however, may just be the best game I have played in 30 odd years of gaming. The balance between combat, learning and levelling is perfect. There are just too many brilliantly executed things to list, so I will leave that for the real reviewers. Boss fights are epic, the Lands Between have so many hidden areas and surprisingly deadly enemies! (Birds with knives and those damned dogs!!) Seriously, don't let this game slip by, it really is a phenomenon.
Not bad reminds me to 2001-2013 GTA 3+4+5 and 2018 Red Dead Redemption Two kinda sounds 2006-2015 Edmonton Rush tho.
This is the peak of souls like games. So many different ways to go about overcoming the challenges it presents you. Every build feels viable.
It's a good feeling to finally play a game that's this complete. Worth every dollar spent unlike most titles these days. An amazing experience that is both challenging and rewarding.
EDIT AFTER 40 HOURS OF PLAYING: I moved my initial rating of 4 to 2. I don't understand what people like about this game. Going around with no reason? IA stupid, movements not well done, not a balanced game, no purpose. 2 points given because they tried to do something cool, but in my opinion, they totally failed. You can just take the horse and go around everywhere. Full of glitches, technical leakages, bugs. Honestly. The high rates are JUST MARKETING
Played a few hours of dark souls 1 but otherwise this was my first souls game and the first one I've beaten. Its worth every penny as i got 110 hours out of it without doing anywhere near everything that you can do in this game. The world is really interesting and fun to explore but I give it an 8 because the narrative isn't great. And no I don't just mean I didn't read all the item descriptions to get the story, I mean that even with that there are still massive plot holes and things that just don't make any sense. In particular I really don't like any of the endings and they are all super short. After such a long time spent with a game I want a satisfying conclusion and this game just doesn't have it. Def worth a try for fans of action rpgs and a more challenging experience.
It’s my first FS, I liked the genius design of every zone of the game and the feeling when discovering a new area. Thanks to FS for this master piece.
Elden Ring is the ultimate epic game, a smash hit that immerses you in extraordinary adventure and jaw-dropping art direction. Moreover, the gameplay is still so enjoyable and even after finishing it, I can't put it down and I think about it all the time. Seeing the next releases, it is necessarily the game of the year for me. (yes there are some technical flaws but they totally disappear because the rest is just great)
This game exceeded expectations in an era where video games have better trailers than gameplay.
This was my first souls-like game and it was a ton of fun. It took me 3-4 shorter play sessions to really get into it and figure out what was going on, but after that I was hooked. Yes you will die in this game, but it's really not a big deal. If I ever walked into an enemy or area that was way too difficult I would just go somewhere else and come back **** that's really the coolest part about the game. It's so big and there is so much to explore and that is what kept me really interested. If you like open world RPGs I think this game is definitely worth its retail price.
By far the best game in 2022. has a very immersive story, Worthy of GOTY. This game is a True Masterpiece.
This game is demanding as it is rewarding. It immerses the player in a world full of mystery, exploration, and challenging enemy encounters while you roam the beautifully designed Lands Between with a palpable sense of imminent threat. Elden Ring is all about the combat and the weapon arts don’t disappoint, with a stunning array of weapon choices and art combinations, engaging in combat is so satisfying. The unique hallmark of FromSoft games is what it demands of the player; to learn the different tools at your disposal designed to help you overcome the difficulty in a way that suits the player. It is a much more sophisticated difficulty setting than a mere slider and has a massive effect on drawing the community together as well as making the game replay-able as you try different builds and continue discovery. There are subtle clues to direct the player, including enemies that seem too difficult; the game’s way of telling you to go somewhere else and come back when you are levelled up. It is challenging, but this makes the accomplishment all the more special. Some users who have given a zero rating because they found enemies too hard have also given Assassins Creed Valhalla a 10/10. These players need their hand holding and don’t want a challenge, they want predictable and easy. They don’t have the minerals to take on Elden Ring and are just leaving bad reviews after rage quitting. You can’t expect to one-shot enemies in this game, it requires some learning of the enemy combat move set - apparently that notion is too difficult for some. Also there are many tools at your disposal that will trivialise the game difficulty if you just put the effort into playing and figuring things out, but no these people would rather put effort into downvoting and review bombing. Elden Ring sold 12 million copies in the first 3 weeks of launch and will deservedly be GOTY. That said, it isn’t for everyone, but as a casual gamer playing when I can around work and family commitments I find it easy to pickup and play in small doses and come back to later. Performance on the PS5 is good enough if not a constant 60fps. I tried the PS4 version on PS5 and while a perfect 60fps I didn’t think the trade off was worth it. All in all, this is one of my favourite games of all time, along with Bloodborne.
Phenomenal Game, must play. People who usually hate this game didn't go through the tutorial and then realize they have to fight every boss right away. Go explore.
Cant get into this game it just keeps beating me down. It is beautiful and if it wasn't for my friends I would have asked for a refund.
It's pretty bad and not fun. You die all the time, because bosses are unfairly strong and this game has nothing else to offer. If this game Metascore was from 80 to 87 i wouldn't even care, but 96 is just hilarious. Game that has hardly any meaningful story. Elden Ring will never sell over 10 million copies.
Thank god most people don't actually like this game. I was actually worried that, if this games starts to influence other open world games, then gaming will be dead, but thankfully that wont happen. Removing quest log/mission log is one of the worst things you can do to your game. If this game wins GOTY, it means absolutely nothing, because Last of Us 2 also won GOTY and nobody likes that game either. Elden Ring player count on Steam has fallen under 200 000 (120 000 as i'm writing this)-all that with ONLY three months. So it's very obvious that most people bought it, because of hype, tried it and just gave up. Overall it's worse than most open world games (Skyrim, GTA V, RDR2, AC Valhalla, AC 4, GTA 4, Days Gone and list just goes on).
I'll put it as simply as possible- This game is Outdated (open world design, graphics, combat). Boring (there's nothing else to do, beside fighting bosses and that gets old fast). Soulless (It's nothing new, groundbreaking or interesting. They put big map full of bosses and that's the game, no deep storytelling, no interesting character, no depth at all). I'm disappointed that i wasted 19 hours of my life on this, hoping to find something actually interesting. All i found was endless unfair and outdated combat, bosses that have way too many combos (ruins the fun, when bosses are too strong) and overall you have to spend too much time doing same thing over and over, that's like possibly worst way you can design a game. Do you do same thing over and over in Red Dead Redemption 2? No. In that game you can move on with story anytime you want. In Elden Ring you have to fight boring bosses, most of these fights will takes you around 10 to 100 tries, that's not fun. It was never fun and it never will be fun.
Good gameplay i loved the experience from the first playtrough. Even with the broken pvp builds i still manage to have good experience. Didnt encounter any major bugs and glitches to ruin something. And overall i loved the gorgeous views and fights.
Beautiful game - Not just for fans of the series but a great starter game as it can be as easy or as hard as you'd like due to the exploration aspect I've put about 144 hours into it and completed I could have went slower or faster but I never felt burnt **** road blocks are in player skill and not due to the game feeling cheap or "too hard" so it's amazing once you overcome ..Many times you can pinpoint where you went wrong such as getting too greedy with hits mis timing a dodge, good sense of progression wherever it's levelling up your character, weapons or summons - Story is intriguing albeit hidden within the vast world within item descriptions/item locations etc overall good time 10/10 for me my favourite of the series.
Elden Ring is fascinating! After getting my platinum for 70 hours, I can clearly say that this game is one of my favorite fromsoft games alongside with Bloodborne and Sekiro. -Gameplay, is similar to Dark Souls 3, and have some "must-have" parts like jumping using only ONE button, and of course the Horse Torrent because of how big the world of the game is.Also kinda new thing is Ashes of War, but they just replace grindstones and gems from Dark Souls 3. The world of this game is unusual to an open world standard, there 4 types of dungeons in this game:caves,catacombs,hero graves and tunnel and they are all interesting to investigate, and rewards with valuable **** for me open world in this game is the worst part of the game,but that doesn’t mean that it is bad, just mediocre, because of the confusion at the start of the game, when u can’t figure out where to go.Sometimes u can go to the high-level locations, and sometimes u can even get to the low-level location already being a high-level **** my opinion they should’ve done a map layout by progression levels, for example like in Witcher 3.Beside this minus, the world of the game is really good and has an unique atmosphere. -The main story of this game is one of the best stories from all games from this developer.Only bloodborne , in my opinion is better.Overall the whole conflict in the lands between is the best part of the games lore, all the lordswith their opinion about the fracture of the Elden Ring, most of them where trying to take the whole power of the Elden Ring, and for example lord Rykard was interested in devouring all of the gods, or Mohg by using Miquella and might of the shard was tring to became a God and create Mohgwyn Dynasty, or some of them like Malenia,Morgott and Godrick where just sitting in there **** if think everyone must experience it, someone may like the lore and story of the game (like me), and some may don’t like. -Main Bosses the game ( those who carry the shards of the Elden Ring ) are fascinating and unique to the whole Souls-like **** perfect example is Mohg - the best and the most fair fight in the game (in my opinion) perfect visuals,good lore before character,astonishing ost and really beatiful location.Also theres General Radahn, I’ve never experienced (UPD Ivory King with Four Knights of Eleum Loyce is very similar to this fight ) such an epic **** the friends you have met where helping you to fight Radahn, even Blaid with Alexander.Rykard is similar to Giant Yorm ( from DS3 ) and Storm Kings ( DeS ) but way harder than them , also fight is very good and fair.Morgott and Goodrick are good but usual to the whole series, but also very **** the hardest one is Malenia, and god she’s the hardest boss in whole franchise,she heals herself after hitting you and has 1 one-shot attacks in first phase, and 3 one-shot attacks in second, also she has 2 health bars.Yeah…that boss is insanely hard, and clearly the hardest boss in the **** final boss of the game - Radagon of the Golden Order and Elden Beast are also insane and has fascinating soundtarck and gorgeous design, but for me Elden Beast is a very boring and meh boss, considering to Radagon with his fast and chalenging moveset , fighting Elden Beast feels like filler boss with its jumps to another of arena and magic spam.Also the game has a lot of optional bosses : Dragonlord Placidusax (Midirs laser vibes... ), Hoarah Loux the Warrior ( 2nd best boss music in the game ), Rennala Queen of the full moon ( second phase - huge flashback to Rom, the vacuous spider from Bloodborne ), Mimic Tear ( Basically You ), Maliketh ( he’s one not optional, but he has really good design and beatiful fight), Regal & Basic Ancestor Spirit ( very relaxing ost , and very good fight ), and so on… This game have a lot of bosses. -The last thing I want to talk is graphics, and they are decent, not next-gen like in Demon Souls Remake, but not bad at all. For me Elden Ring became a very interesting journey, with memorable bosses, deep lore, and beautiful **** after getting a platinum in this game I already miss it…After beating the game for 4 times i can clearly say that this game is one of my favorite games of all time and without doubt is my third favorite soulsborne game. 9/10
I genuinely haven’t been able to put the controller down. I have NEVER played a souls game before and always wanted to start so I jumped on the Elden Ring bandwagon to be my “first.” All I can say is that this has been one of my most beloved experiences in gaming and I genuinely think this is my favorite game of all time. This MY personal opinion and yeah it looks like I’m **** the game off…. But if you play the game and actually beat it… you’ll understand why I am. Absolute 10/10.
This game isn't a masterpiece it also isn't awful. What it is, is a game that starts out as one of the most enticing and unabashed delights that, after halfway through, way overstays it's welcome. It's accompanied by a devolution into obnoxious repetition and an aggressive overabundance of poor design choices. The starting areas of this game are visually striking and unbelievably packed to the brim with genuinely fun and engaging content. The enemy designs are varied and completely FRESH to the player. As you progress through the game past a certain point, say about a 1/3 way through, you'll start to notice marked patterns that start to arise. Random dungeons are repeating aplenty, early bosses become normal enemies, and everything is getting quite a bit of a damage boost and health boost. Fret not, for this is a pretty normal staple for FromSoft fans and for newcomers it's barely noticeable. Then, it happens, you come to the realization that about 1/2 into the game, you have fought these bosses before you have seen the enemies before, you have traverses these dungeons before, you have painstay searched high and low for the new content, but it seems that it isn't anywhere to be found. So you get sick of it and instead of exploring every detail, every nook and cranny for fun interesting items and encounters... You trudge on the main path for something new. This is an evident truth for the rest of the game. You will fight bosses you have fought, sometimes, up to 5+ times, you will traverse the same uninspired dungeon designs throughout the game. You get to a point in the game where the enemy fight and environment designs are there to be just difficult for the sake of difficult, not for the players enjoyment. The latter half of this game is so incredibly devoid of any common ground between the developers and the player that you'll feel like you're playtesting a version of the game that hasn't been balanced, or finished, yet. People will play and enjoy this game, all of the way through, and I am happy for those people, but for the majority of people that play this game, it will be an unnecessarily stark contrast throughout the runtime of the playthrough. It is by no means a bad game, but it is entirely unpolished, by design, in the latter half to the point that it will exhaust anyone who isn't a diehard fan.
Hands down the best game ive ever played - im 50 and have been gaming since my teens. I see people saying performance issues?? get a better PC and it's as smooth as butter on the PS5. All the negatives are from people who have only played a small portion of the game. 11/10 from me.
Boring combat. Button mashing and dodge roll to avoid taking hits. Thread bare story, and what there is, is so badly voice acted as to be unbearable. 10 hours in and I’m taking it to a store to trade in and get some cash back while I still can.
How is it possible that there is NO ENGLISH available for a country like Hong Kong where the official language is in both English and Chinese. I felt like I got cheated as I paid for the game and PS was not able to give me a refund….
I’m a fan of the Souls games but this does nothing for me. I gave up and uninstalled the game after 50 hours. Dark Souls Valhalla Modern Warfare 2022 just isn’t for me I’m afraid. If the next From Software game is go in nuff to be like this then I’m out. I’ve got my other From Software titles in my collection which pretty much do the same thing.
graphics look dark and dull, could easily pass for a game made 10 years ago. I keep it on performance mode favoring frame rate. Frame rate still drops noticeably often. I'm on PS5, what part of this game is pushing limitations? I don't see it. This is my first Dark Souls game so I know I still have a lot to learn as far as gameplay goes but it seems just alright so far. Controls aren't really intuitive, enemies look stiff and lifeless. IDK I guess playing HZD then going to this a week later is a shock. IK its apples and oranges but this doesn't feel like a game made in 2022 and anyone giving it a 10.. 10 for WHAT? EDIT- updating from 8 to 9. now have 160 hours in. This game is awesome, graphics still annoy me a bit but I totally understand all the 10/10s now
Game of the year material everything is amazing (gameplay,art,level design,etc...) but endgame a little bit hard.
QUANTITY OVER QUALITY Elden Ring, id est, Dark Souls 3 with a horse, copy paste enemies, boring cringy choir music, only 8 unique boss fights, and broken overpowered ashes of war for the CASULS. Carefully crafted by From Software to cater to the mindless masses who are blind sheep and bought this LIE because some overrated writers name was attached to it and who cannot see that Miyazaki is a one-trick-pony who makes the same game over and over again. At least it has no microtransactions. All in all this game would have been better if some of the content was cut because if you are going to buy this prepare to fight the same copy pasted bosses over and over again. From fanbois are idiots lol.
We need more games like this!!! Elden ring takes the overused formula of open world And makes it fresh again even after countless hour “open world fatigue” it never felt like the developers added useless boring chores to pad run time everything here is good quality stuff
Bought the game on TW PS Store, open the game, Find no English, TW PS Store refuse the refund saying the game has been played for more than 10 minutes, I was wasting 10 minutes just to find change language setting, now I will boycott all Bandai Namco Games
One of the best game i have ever played. And i play video games for 17 years now
For an open-world game, there isn’t much variety to what you can do in Elden Ring. The combat is fine and as-expected, but the graphics are not great by modern standards, and there isn’t a compelling narrative that unfolds to drive the game forward. The gameplay, setting, and story do not weave together meaningfully — it feels like these elements were developed separately and then combined without any cohesive artistic vision. Elden Ring might represent a nice evolution for FromSoftware as they explore open-world design, but it’s not particularly thoughtful in its execution. For a game to be considered a masterpiece (as reviews have claimed), there really needs to be a level of care and craftsmanship that just isn’t here.
This is the very first souls game i’ve ever played and i finished this game in 168 HOURS!!! Elden ring is definitely the greatest game of all times, at least for me
Loved this game. I beat it after 110 hours after doing every quest I didn't accidentally lock myself out of, and exploring every dungeon. I'm still playing to collect every item. It reinvigorated my interest in video games. I played Sekiro and Bloodborne but didn't make it very far in either. Elden Ring hooked me and the difficulty was more approachable as I could level up my character and try new builds. Not since beating the Valkyrie Queen in God of War 2018 have I been so proud of overcoming a challenge in a video game. Ignore the review bombs, this is a complete game that won't push microtransactions on you. I never had performance issues playing on performance mode on PS5.
For me, the best From Software game. Not a 10 just because of the many copies of bosses that you fight again and again in the dungeons
Absolutely love it. Took time to get to a 'From software' open world. But after midway, it got so fun. Currently on ng+3, and a new character game.
Milestone. It is this type ****, which we will mention in 20 years. Respect and thanks to FromSoft.
Like all of FromSoft’s other new IPs this game definitely has an adjustment phase for it before the game “clicks,” but it happens faster than Bloodborne or Sekiro in my opinion. This game is a really good blend of all of their previous games. The combat isn’t as fluid or fast as Sekiro or Bloodborne, but it does well at combining the magic system from Dark Souls with faster paced combat. My biggest issue with the game is how some field bosses and optional bosses are recycled. However, the sheer amount of content and enemies does a decent job at offsetting this. The open world can be lacking in some areas, but it feels appropriate due to the lore of the area. Exploration of most areas is fairly simple, but almost everywhere there’s some well hidden unique location. The graphics are nothing to write home about from a technical standpoint, but artistically this is possibly the most beautiful game I’ve played—better than Ghost of Tsushima, God of War 4, and the Horizon Series. Areas like the capital and Nokron are places you spend so much time just looking at. The story is typical for a Souls game but it’s closer to Sekiro in terms of how ambiguous and hidden it is. As usual, this game isn’t for everyone but it’s far less niche than previous titles. If you enjoy exploration for the sake of exploration or you are a long time souls fan, this game is for you.
Best game ever. Way more than another Souls game. Absolutely stunning. Must have.
Now that I've played enough I'ma give my opinion. Just to let u know this is my second souls game so. Pro: Game visuals is great and also bosses. I like how much variety there is and u won't get bored if your with friends. Cons: The combat system is one of the most basic I've seen on a game which makes it boring for me. Also playing alone in that open world is also boring in my opinion. The co-op even tho is great the system of it ****. U get so many restrictions (There's stuff u can't pass thro unless u alone then go in and summon friends again which it takes like 5 minutes each time) sometimes u can't even see their summon and u gotta use a item to see it and it didn't even worked all the time for me I had to move from the area or restart the game (Yes we had same password etc) which it gets tiresome honestly. If u die or they die u gotta go thro all that again so ye. Not sure if the game was intented to play it alone but if u make it co-op at least make it right and less annoying. Also u can get invaded anytime which it totally ****. U get friends trying to help u then get invaded randomly and killed and u gotta go thro all that stuff again. The story so far has been meh
The game is just about perfect. I have over 100 hours in game and feel like I have only scratched the surface. When I am not playing, I wish I was. This game is like reading an awesome book, you can't put it down and you can't wait to see what's on the next page or around the next corner. Don't pay any attention to the bad reviews written by some jealous beta cuck. The only negative thing I will say is that some moron who can't hack the world of Elden Ring has the right to barf up a nonsense review on this board. Now **** kick some ass.
Just amazing overall game.. takes a while to beat and a lot of trial and error but the feeling afterwards is more then worth the trouble.. bz far the best game i played in a few years
Open World Design: 10/10 Story and storytelling: 7/10 Quest Design: 8/10 Game Mechanics: 7/10 Combat Mechanics: 6/10 ### 1. World Design on the highest surprising level: The world and its design is beautiful and gigantic one. Every single area fits the wishes and dreams of an open world for casual gamers like me. Also the decision to design the world also vertically was 100% a right one. That the world don't uses the current and available state of the art next gen graphics level like other dripple A games isn't a minus, since the world still looks beautiful, also compared to its complete size. Or compared to the moments you will definitely have alone or together with a friend when you get surprised again, again, and again - after 10 Minutes, 30 hours or even in the endgame. ### 2. Story that is written but not told: Like in every From Software game the individual story isn't really told via a recognizable common thread. Based on items and every items description and some short video clips YOU are responsible to find out more about the lore of Elden Ring. But you're not alone: the community will not only support you in terms of story, quests and their individual progress. For casual gamers like me this "story telling pattern" isn't that convenient, since I get motivation and energy from clearly visible progress, not just "skill-", attribute- or story-related. Of course: Since you're responsible to find out more about the story and Elden Ring's fundament is an open world, you could say "Every player will write and then tell its own Elden Ring story". But after 50 hours of playing the game you will more and more get the feeling that something is missing while you found your character build, needed ashes and you find out that more and more things repeat themselves (Dungeons, Enemies, Combat Mechanics). ### 3. Quest, after quest, after quest: Quests in Elden Ring are great, some of them are amazing. But - when you start a quest you need to finish the quest asap and stop playing the story line. If not, in some cases you wont be able to finish the relevant quests. AND: You need the support of the community and Elden Ring Wikis for 6 of 10 quests. Which makes it even harder to dive deeper into the game and its story, since to search and share quest relevant information you need to switch from console or pc to your smartphone or tablet. ### 4. Inner fight with yourself until luck kicks in The combat system and mechanics of Elden Ring follows one official way: “Be open, try, fail, learn, make progress, repeat”. When you play Elden Ring you soon find out, it’s not the way above. It’s following way: If you fail. Try again. If you fail again, level your attributes, upgrade your favorite weapons in use. Google search: "Interactive map, smithing stones" If you fail, try again. If you fail again, start farming to become the Elden God. Google search: "Best farming spot Elden Ring" If you fail, google search: "Best build for boss x/y" and reset your attributes. If you fail again, google search: "Cheese of boss x/y" and don't forget to update your bow. If you fail, try again. If you fail again, ask a community player to support you in the fight. But: Don't forget that the boss will become stronger after you sum another player. If you fail, start again from the top of the list. If you fail again, LEARN to live with it. If you can't, because you have a friend which already finished Elden Ring the second time and loves to here you failing: Mute him, games music, voices (not only Malenias) and try it again! Learn to live with the fact, that getting in a fight with an Elden Ring boss means getting spammed with individual combat patterns and if you have enough luck you maybe win that fight. But: Before you win the fight, you will scream, cry, earn anger, frustration, deepest hate and a lot of destroyed playstation, xbox controllers or pc keyboards. Even at the end, when you can smell victory - not only the last 4 bosses will spam you every combat pattern the individual boss has directly in your face - like you play against a world champion of the game Super Smash Bros or Street Fighter. But you play the specific game for the first time. But, world champion gamers of beatemups don't have a second phase. Elden Ring bosses have a second one - without an endurance/condition break for spamming every combat pattern in your direction. It's not about progress, not about improvement, not about skill - if you're a casual gamer like me and you're not part of the souls community. At the end its luck. After 123 hours of playing, end level 190, and after I finished the game I finally can say: Elden Ring and it's patterns from world design, NPCs, story, contents, bosses and the unfair spamming combat system is not a masterpiece. Elden Ring is a hugh step forward for all the upcoming (open world) games in the future, not only of From Software. 7.6/10
If you're not into From Software games, don't start this game. If you don't know what I mean by this, also, don't start this game. I get why people may like it. The huge amount bosses you can play and how hard it is, the fact there are no shortcuts; the game is satisfying for hardcore gamers. For most people who have other **** in their lives, it's tedious, unimpressive and boring. The mechanics are basic. It feels like something from PS2. The graphics don't stand compared to exclusive PS games like Horizon Forbidden West, or Ghost of Tsushima. Everything else feels kind of ****
as always, from software teaches other developers. such an open world has not been seen since the days of skyrim, a quality product created with love and dedication towards the player. ubisoft, guerrilla and company will certainly take inspiration from this in the coming years
An overrated game with bad graphics , bad performance and a really bad battle system, it’s not about it being hard, there are even harder games that are good , this is just clunky , hyped by the media and overrated by people that won’t ever finish it or get bored or frustrated really easy, it tries to be like the legend of Zelda breath of the wild but it ends up being a mediocre nightmare
I am very mixed about this game. On one had the open world and the story is fantastic, combat feel as amazing as ever and the amount of weapons is insane. The other hand is bosses. Some of the I loved, but the further I got the more annoying they got. I didn't feel good fighting them. Even though you can have a lot of health most bosses just one shot you with some dumb AOE attack.
The build variety and playing styles are absolutely endless meaning you can play through the game countless times and it feels different. I don’t think it is quite at the level of some of their other games which are near perfect mainly due to the bosses. By the time you get to mid game the bosses and your character do ridiculous levels of damage so most fights are over very quickly either way and you never get the combat flow that made the other games so good. They would have been better making it 30% shorter and focusing on getting the weapons and boss fights perfect. It is still an incredible game that deserves the success it has achieved
Good world design, graphics not near as demon souls. Boring world, no real rewards for exploring. Worst Boss move design from all FS Games. Critic Reviews seem bought. Getting with time worse and worse. Just wasted money.
gorgeous strong story the open world is good dead daily should be the best of 2022
Elden ring just become good because it is dark soul predecessor. Look how empty the map is because the map is just too big. They need to add more density rather than just a forced open world. The movement sure is more fluid than dark soul, but it is still considered very rough. Weirdly enough that they develop sekiro which has a very great and fluid movement. It seems like just a step down from sekiro. Control is very bad that you can easily push the wrong button. Multiplayer is still unplayable and very confusing. They should just copy what Nioh 2's team ninja did. The story and lore still very bad. They too focus on gameplay that made the story very shallow. They should take the example of Hollow knight, it clearly focuses on gameplay but doesn't sacrifice lore. The story of Elden ring is not that different than Nioh 2 and Strange of paradise in terms of complexity. I think that Sekiro is better than this. It's not that the Elden ring is bad. But it still cannot be considered a masterpiece as it is. And now, many dark soul themes are better than Elden ring.
once in a few years a game comes along that just pushes every button... Elden Ring is one of those games. they combined the meticulously designed "dungeons" of previous games perfectly into an open world setting, then filled it with wonder evoking and visually stunning "points of interest" seriously the way this game just pulls you into it is remarkable.. the gameplay loop is always fresh with the build options and cool enemies to fight with. Pros : - deep fun and varied combat system. so many builds weapons and spells to choose from. - interesting Lore and Characters. - Impressive World Building and design. - the Graphics design of the enemies and locations you see surpasses "better looking tech wise" games, the art design just carries it. it looks AMAZING. - Story is good although its kind of hidden away in items and "make your own conclusions" but that is part of its charm. - Animations of enemies etc are phenomenal. - Voice Acting are some of the best in the industry. - Soundtrack is again a masterpiece. - Open world that rewards exploration. - extremely vertical and layered open world. Cons : - slight frame rate issues
very very fun game, it really got me hooked. But we have to be honest the story is weak, every bossfight you can feel alot is going on. yet for some reason stuff happens. and ti ****, im a **** for big epic stories. in a game, not in the items. the best way to enjoy the story is going on youtube where a guy with a finnish name explains it better then the game does. the combat, which the game is praised on, its clunky and delayed. Ai is actually non excistant. enemies just do cycles of the same attacks. Which is ok. but not groundbreaking. the graphics, the design, epic. the execution. sometimes close to a nintendo switch in visuals. and why so diffrent compared to other users? lets be honest, the souls gamers always have been an elitist cult (still love you guys :P) but before i played this game i played horizon zero dawn. and just focussing on the combat aspect and the combat UI. it is miles ahead of any souls game. and thats probaly a bitter pill to swallow.
As a FromSoftware newbie, it’s a great game but very challenging and grindy. That’s not necessarily what makes it 1 point short of a 10 though. The game has serious technical problems like framedrops, and the feeling of joy is often short-lived because of a useless weapon that you can’t use for the next 20 hours and a lack of rewards for great accomplishments.
This game has everything you could want in an RPG, a giant open world hundred of spells and weapons, plenty of different armor and hundreds of bosses. From software really outdid themselves with this game and made a masterpiece
Story and dialogue that sounds like it was written by a 12 year old. Otherwise just another Souls clone.
If you loved Dark Souls 3, then you'll love this game. This game is Dark Souls 3 but open world with so much innovation on the open world. There is so much to explore with so many items to grab from the bosses you'll find along you're journey. Every boss feels amazing to fight and punish you just enough for your mistakes and reward you for manipulating the boss into moves that you know will guarantee you damage on the boss. The bosses are incredibly creative with amazing designs. The endgame is incredibly fun as you can go back and kill the bosses in caves and dungeons that you were not able to kill in the beginning of the game and get new items from them to use in your next journey. The only flaw I can even bring up are some performance issues but the game is so good that you would rate it an 11/10 and the performance issues are the only thing that bring it down to a sad, lowly 10/10. This game is absolutely perfection and even if you have never played a souls like game I highly recommend you going to pick up this game.
I've been playing FromSoftware games for years to get to Elden Ring. I absolutly recommend it.
This game is like the best parts of Dark Souls 3 balanced out and then put in a world just as expansive and dense with content as BOTW
best game ever.., beautifull graphic, perfect gameplay, deep story and lore. very groundbreaking open world game. most of issues not happen on my pc
I sunk a few hours into this game so it gets a few points for at least keeping me entertained for a couple of days. After a while I realised I don’t have time for this, without a plot or some variety in gear and weapons to keep interested… meh
Repetitive. If you enjoy awful third person camera with enormous bosses taking up all of it so you can't see what you're doing, or chopping on legs that your camera is inside of, this is the game for you! I do like the lore, art style and grit but the gameplay is awful. Dying 25 times in order to perfectly time a boss' cheese delayed hits isn't really fun in my opinion, especially when you can ahrdly see what's going on most of the time. If you like this, you're probably a masochist. Hopefully devs don't start making games like this because it's going to ruin what we used to call fun.
250 hrs so far and LOVED every single minute of it, and I still have not discovered everything the game has to offer. The world is so massive.
Elden ring is one of those games that can be super stressful when trying to advance, while also being really enjoyable while you continue to progress forward in the story, overall I consider Elden Ring to be a great game with a beautiful open world to explore
FFFFF don't be fooled by the critics... this game is 10/10, those who criticize are just some frustrated sony and their peculiar exclusives that already marry as if they take the same path as ubisoft... the others are also crazy fans of dark souls and its difficulty, elden ring is a more accessible soul and that annoys them, this game is better in every way, besides the 100 hours that you can spend exploring its whole world it is very fun to repeat it again but as a GOD. elden ring is 10/10 no matter what sony fanboys who love horizon and dark souls fanboys say... don't keep reading reviews or guide elden ring you don't enjoy or understand reading you enjoy exploring :D
This game is a dream come true for me. It has everything I could ever want in a video game.
Let me just start off by saying this game is beautiful, but this game should stand as a testament as to why to never trust ratings. First off, this game is not truly progressive in the sense that you have no idea where to go and any places you do try to explore are filled with hard bosses btw this is literally right from the get go. Go play a real RPG like the Witcher 3 which has a great story, open-world, combat, and **** GWENT.
- This is literally a reskin of Dark Souls 3. Which Dark Souls 3, by the way, was a reskin of Dark Souls. This company has been making the same game for over a decade now and they're getting away with it. - This game is too long. If you've every played a Souls game, then you've already played this game. Same combat, same weapons, same mechanics. Now take Dark Souls and imagine it's twice as long. Games can be long if they successfully introduce new ideas to spice up the gameplay. But here you've already seen it al before; there's next to nothing new here. Add to that the recycled bosses and enemies, and you'll quickly grow bored - The bosses in this game are balanced around mimics. That is, summoning an npc to help you. If you do not summon, bosses will be so hard and unfair you'll think it is the hardest Souls game yet. It you do summon, you'll think it's the easiest. I don't like Co-op play and am disappointed it has been forced here
I have played every souls game from demon souls to bloodborne and sekiro, but I have never felt like any of the other games are as cheap as this one. This one pretends to be difficult but is just cheap. What I mean by that is that while previous games reward patients and learning, elden ring rewards getting lucky eventually. You just keep on trying until eventually the stars happen to randomly align and you beat a boss. Very frustrating, even when you beat a boss, you can look at it and think that the only reason you won was luck. There is no satisfaction in that. I have given it a chance, I have pushed through 80 hours, hoping that it would be the amazing game I hoped it would be. Unfortunately, it is not.
This game is great. With almost no issues at launch or **** micro transactions. EA, Call of DooDy and gran turismo should take notes on how to release games
For people who really experienced the game, this is much more than a simply Dark Souls game. Elden Ring offers an open world, full of interesting places to explore, more than 100 bosses, and do the most important thing: NOT CARRY THE PLAYER! Real gamers want to experience the game and achieve goals by themselves, so a game must force you to think, to do better decisions, and in this cryteria, Elden Ring delivers. It is not the most difficult game of From Software, but it will **** your life for weeks. It is a masterpiece.
Elden Ring is an astonishing milestone in gaming. Just like Dark Souls, Bloodborne and Sekiro before it. That's pretty much it and nothing else needs to be said, honestly. The game isn't perfect, clearly, but it's very hard not to give it the full score, since it managed to fully swallow my life for around 200 hours. It basically made me stop looking at any other game and even threw me back to finish past From Software titles once again. The graphics and art design is beyond beautiful. The lands between urges you to explore its caves, castles, mountains, underground cities and every other nook and cranny that you can (and sometimes can't) gaze your eyes upon. Combat system is Dark Souls perfected. Everything works and flows perfectly. It's basically hitbox porn, with great movement freedom and room for improvisation. Every build is viable and the game wants you to try whatever you feel like. And it's not just the jumping that makes a difference. It's your horse and its precise movements, it's your weapon skills, your sorceries and encantations, it's the enemies, your equipment... everything! Exploration is basically the name of the game here and there are TONS of things for you to venture yourself in at the open world of the Lands Between. It's incredible. I grew tired of open world games, but Elden Ring brought something different to the table. And it's not even anything new, it's just... tasty to relish in. The map is seriously huge and, on top of the "base quest", you can uncover hidden cities, tombs and many other places that WILL MAKE you keep seeking more. It's addictive and quite marvelous to experience. The lore, in my opinion, is probably the highest peak of the whole package. It's insanely well written (and well voiced) and each puzzle piece fits as you progress through the main story and sidequests. NPCs are memorable, discoveries are rewarding, optional bosses and areas are perfect and the whole story is just highly compeling. George Martin and Miyazaki did a wonderful job of creating this sprawling dark world, filled with mysteries and conundrums to feast upon during your gameplay. It all feels too good to be true, right? And sort of is, but Elden Rings' cracks start to become more visible as you lenghten your visit in this forsaken land. The biggest problem I've come accross has to be the repetition of assets. I did have a lot of fun prowling through catacombs and open areas, but by the time I reached the Mountaintop Of the Giants, it started to get to me. And the bosses. One of Sekiro's biggest flaws, for me, was the amount of repeat bosses, even if it made sense in the story. With Elden Ring, this problem is enhanced due to its open world nature. I grew weary of fighting the same bosses over and over, even right towards the end of my journey. I know that these types of things are normal, but it kinds hurt the experience a bit. Not to mention how unbalanced some of them are. Other problems include how the game kinda requires you to summon spirits, some places look the same, the lack of that classic intertwined level design that From's known for, uncalled for difficulty spikes in weird places, among other things. Again, these flaws were clear, but truly harmless, when you take everything you go through in into consideration. Elden Ring is a true masterpiece and there's no other way around it. Hard not to recommend it, especially if you are a fan of Soulsborne or open world games. But it makes me wonder: where will the team go after achieving such a high level? Only time will tell, but I can't wait to see what's next.
The enemy tracking and input reading are awful awful awful. I've played and finished every souls game and this is the first time that the "artificial difficulty" meme is not a meme. The combat is disgustingly bad compared to previous entries let alone compared to BB and Sekiro.
When we said ''Big Dark Souls'', we weren't wrong. However, we weren't completely right either. This game is so much more. It takes the core gameplay of Dark Souls III and expands it into a true open world experience. Already my all time favourite game.
Story, landscape, gameplay, everything is perfect. It has taken all of the best features from every souls game, perfected them, and added a ton of new features to enjoy. Fromsoftware went all in with their first open-world game, and it is immediately one of, if not the best game they have made. The respec feature and ash of war feature allow for an endless possibility of playstyles, and allow players to approach challenges when they are ready and explore first through its vast and open, yet full and complex world. Every player can find a playstyle that suits them and while the game is very difficult, it is still very accessible to everyone. Have never been more satisfied with a game before.
Best game i ever played since Zelda Ocarina of time. That game is just FREAKING awesome! I have to play new game + now and enjoy everything a second time!
Great game. Updated to a 10 from an 8. Multiple patches have been made. Balancing not perfect but better.
This game is giving me the same feeling when I first played Fallout New Vegas so it's an instant 10 in my books
I have about 40 hours into the game and I just can't quit. Never had so much fun exploring every inch of an open world game before.
Elden Ring is the most conflicted I've been about a From game since Dark Souls 2. I greatly enjoyed most of my time with the game. But I also can't see myself returning to it for further runs like I did with previous From games, nor are my feelings looking back on the game as a whole especially positive. First, the good. The game is beautiful. True, on the tech side it's hardly cutting edge; it looks like an ever so slightly gussied up PS4 game. But artistically it's the best work From has done yet. There's a vibrancy and use of color that isn't present in their other games, and some truly inventive designs for enemies and locations. The combat is also as good as it has ever been, and if you liked DS3's combat you'll likely enjoy Elden Ring's as it's mostly an expansion of what was found there. The story shares the crypticness and strangeness of the previous From games but is both more expansive and deep. And the first four fifths of the game (roughly 80 hours on my playthrough) are mostly spectacular. However, as I got further it became difficult to ignore a general degradation in the game's quality. Limgrave, the opening area, is by far the densest and most visually varied of all the game's areas. There's a healthy number of NPCs, quests, mini-dungeons, random things to find, and an amazing legacy dungeon with Stormveil Castle that feels like the best of the interconnected, maze-like levels in DS1. The next area, Liurnia, is also quite good, if not quite as good as Limgrave. Then comes Caelid, which is solid, but it's here where you start to notice things going off the rails ever so slightly. There are barely any quests, far fewer mini-dungeons, and there isn't even a large dungeon at the end like there was in the previous two areas. It feels unfinished, not in the egregious way that something like Lost Izalith did, but more in a "They ran out of time to populate the map they made with content" kind of way. And this trend continues as the game goes on, with a gradual but noticeable thinning of content. Enemy variety continually decreases, there are fewer and fewer quests and NPCs, more uniformity in the landscapes within each zone, and overall an increasing feeling that the game's running out of ideas and that its best moments are behind it. Then you get to the last fifth of the game and the wheel's come completely off. The last stretch of the game is, unfortunately, a slog. The endgame is poorly balanced, with basic enemies like bats and demi humans (who you've been fighting since the first hour of the game) now incredibly spongy and three shotting even over-leveled characters in heavy armor that were shrugging off the attacks of demigods a few minutes prior. Bosses start to exhibit the worst tendencies of the lesser bosses of previous From games: unreadable attacks, flailing, poor camera on larger bosses, long combos (literally a minute long in at least one case) with an opening just wide enough to get a single R1 in, terrible gimmicks, and overtuned damage/health. But this isn't the real problem with the back fifth of the game. Elden Ring's greatest strength up until now has been its exploration and sense of discovery. Its world constantly rewards you with some new enemy, area, character, weapon, etc. as you explore, and this constant discovering of new things keeps you wanting to push forward even when the game is frustrating or an area here or there is subpar. When you hit hour 80 or so, you've now seen every single enemy the game has. This is not hyperbole; outside of bosses, from this point on it is nothing but enemies you've already been fighting for many hours. There are now next to no NPCs or quests to find. There are nearly zero mini-dungeons. The game has simply run out of content, in the same way that Lost Izalith in DS1 was the moment that game ran out of steam and resorted to spamming oddly ill-fitting enemies to pad its empty areas, e.g. the dragon butts. But Lost Izalith, for all its awfulness, is an hour, maybe 30 minutes if you're quick. Elden Ring at this point has another 20 hours or so of drab monotony to drag yourself through. The game's greatest strength is all but gone for that time; by now, you've seen all it has to show you. All that's left are some empty, bland areas with recycled enemies and a gauntlet of fairly subpar to outright bad bosses to fight. I hope that some balance patches smooth out some of the rough edges of the late game, particularly with the bosses. And there's always a chance that, much like with DS1 and 2, DLC will elevate the late game by incorporating high-quality areas that were not rushed like those in the base game. But right now, those sorts of improvements are merely hypothetical. Elden Ring as it is now is an amazing game right up until it isn't. And it's tragic that it ends so poorly and in such a way that it's difficult not to have those final 20 hours taint one's perception and feeling towards the game as whole.
Its a good game. if journalists score werent so ridiculous overdimensioned i would put it a seven. The game hasnt anything new just a massive and beautifull world where you only can kill things and nothing else more.
Masterpiece, it is indeed a game that **** you into its bombastic, absolutly stunningly designed world. A game that I will not easy forget. I can see why people do not like the Difficulty of this game. Nowadays, People just want easy, quick entertainment. But that is not what Elden Ring is about, it is about git gud and knowing and loving the game by heart. .
A marvel ****... Epic. A fantastic world, a magic journey. Just play it. JUST :)
my main complaint is that it is so dead, lifeless and somewhat dinjuncted. It is beautifull, and the map has tons of lovely crafted areas, but there is no interaction between the different areas at all. The enemies are incredibly stupid, starting with their ultra short sight , lack of peripheral awareness to the way they uterly ignore the world around them (ignoring corpses they are basically trodding on, suddenly missing companions, ... etc) just to return to the same short patterns. For all that matters you are fighting braindead zombies, and you do that with 2 buttons, a roll and a jump (how innovative!). I just found it pretty boring to be honest. All in all it felt like a very basic single player (don't get me started on the "multiplayer" part ... there is more littering in ER than in Cyberpunk 2077's street) action MMORPG. The "story" completely failed to grip me too, so that didn't help I reinstalled "Dark Messiah" (2004!) after playing Elden Ring, and whilst it doesn't have the vast spawning map, and it obviously looks dated (uses the Source Engine too btw;), the way the enemies notice what goes on around them, move far from their predefined patterns, run back to get reinforcement when they are wounded and even use the environment to their advantage was refreshing compared to Elden Ring. Same with the combat mechanics (which includes stuff like climbing beside jumping... can you imagine?!), and the story, whilst not Oscar worthy (you can't slap, but you can kick, so still not bad), is presented in an entertaining manner. I also bought a game on sale a few days ago called "Tainted Grail : Conquest". There is no real time combat, as it is basically a rogue like-TC:G (think "Slay The Spire", but with some shiny 3D graphics and really weird and gross monsters. I highly recommend it if you're looking for another kind of RPG), but the atmosphere is very similar to that of Elden Ring (it also happens in an afterlife of sort and has the same "you're supposed to die often!" approach), and even THAT world feels more lived in than ER's. The story is told well, the characters you meet in the different areas even interact with each other through you, and there is some persistence when you kill mobs ... something I also very much missed from Elden Ring. so ... . Elden Ring is "okay'ish" ... but definitely not worthy of any real praise in 2022.
As a soulsborne fan i wanted to give the game a 10, but that would be wrong because it's far from perfect. Many things are copied from ds, like when i was in stormveil castle i realy felt like i was in dark souls, most of the game you are in open areas some of which are very beautiful and horse makes it fun to explore, also fighting on a horse really changes the gameplay makes it more dynamic like in sekiro, but it's seriously not as much as some people say it is, like people buy fifa and call of duty every year, and these games are basically the same every time and people forgive that. Game is a lot like bb in a way that it is between ds and sekiro but bb leaning towards ds and elden ring towards sekiro. Soulsborne fans will like it, some new people will come but as with all from soft games before some people will not like difficulty and will hate it
If you enjoy fighting the same boss enemies over and over again, two or three of the same type or in random combinations with other ones than this game is for you. Otherwise it is a recycled piece of patchwork from Dark Souls. Clipping issues on armor and shields are ridiculous sometimes - the bull-goat set is clipping cancer. I can't believe this is an issue in 2022.
ive never played the game before but its a complete ripoff of darksouls and is god awful. honestly a game like balon wonderworld is better then this. this games graffics are god awful i mean flash isaac looks better then this. dont but this game its a complete and utter waste of money!
This is my first Souls like game and I can't describe how great it is. It keeps on giving and giving. 11/10! It’s incredibly addictive :)
i seriously just made an account so i can rant over this crap game. i‘m sorry i have to give it such a bad rating but i feel from my heart that somebody needs to lower it’s score. don’t get me wrong, i played demons, ds 3, sekiro etc. but man do i hate this game and everything it stands for. spare your fn time - don’t buy it. so here starts my rant: i played like 140hrs and this game is just not coming to an end. like in a bad way. it’s tedious. after all that time i‘m doing all the same crap like at the start, there is literally NO development in any case. it’s just fighting over and over and over and over and over and over again. which could be OK, but the highly appraised combat system is like the same **** like EVER. with all it’s flaws like 15 years ago. camera? super crap. hitboxes? super crap. movement? super irresponsive crap. what, theres a crappy endboss which is totally unfair cause he just spams 5 super range attacks in a row that one hit kills you over 50m? we‘ll just copy that boss later on and DOUBLE him. wow. what exceptional GAME DESIGN. now i know some virgins are gonna come up with git gut: why should i waste my fn time memorizing a tedious unfair boss by battling it 20 times? it’s just a waste of time. and the thing with difficulty is: i don’t mind difficult games. i played through returnal with six deaths, which is pretty ok i think. some say it’s the over all harder game. but you know what? it’s responsive. every button you press is immediately carried out on screen. returnal is a fn gaming heaven with hard but fair combat and the smoothest controls ever made. elden ring on the other hand is just so sluggish and lame and slow and sloppy and SO. FN. UNPRECISE. every hit i take, i‘ve 100% foreseen and pressed the damn block or roll button but the game is just so slow and badly designed… i have no words. i swear to god if my character ONCE more stumbles around like an idiot after a hit and not lifting up his shield like i tell him to, i‘ll fn break the controller in half. ITS JUST BAD GAME DESIGN. ok if the combat is bad and irresponsive, maybe roaming and exploring is cool. just two words: open world. just ride or walk 5000km to see… whatever copied ruin or magic tower or dungeon. it’s just typical open world BS. you could compress it into a nice 80hrs and it would be okish but that… which brings me to my next two points: the music fn ****. it’s like 5 tracks made of annoyingly undesdinctive ambient crap music which KILLS your ears already in limgrave after a good 10 hrs. it’s so annoying i turned the music off. for the first time in my 25yrs gaming history. the atmosphere could be a plus. but whats that? everything ruined. dark. broken, bla bla bla. it’s the same fn stuff youve heard like 10 times in a row with every from soft game. i cant stand it anymore. but worse: the storytelling is STILL AS **** AS IT HAS EVER BEEN. don’t get me wrong, you don’t have to explain everything for a good story, i‘m in the filmbizz, i know that. but that crap is just so random undefined snot, i have no fn clue who i am, the people around me, the world and places and especially what i am doing. all atmosphere gets so compromised by this non-storytelling, i could not care less about ANYTHING in this game. who am i fighting right now? why? where am i? why has he a lion on his back or breaks the reality?.. plus: you have such unsatisfying choices all over this game it makes me angry. why give me the choice to change ANYTHING, when i have NO FKN clue for whom, why and what for i make the choices. spoiler free example: i could tell you you have to make a life changing decision RIGHT NOW by saying either PIDGEON or YELLOW. you have to choose. so you choose just out of random with no fn clue why and what for. thats how EVERY decision in this game feels. you just give up to care. it’s just REALLY BAD GAME DESIGN. in the end it’s just a repetitive, unresponsive, unfair, tedious, badly designed game with bad music and even worse storytelling. i‘m so done with it. it’s so boring me out i cant even comprehend. maybe it’s fun a few hours but after all this time i couldnt care less about anything that happens randomly and screams in my face: I‘M SO BADASS WITH MY BADLY DESIGNED COMBAT AND BOSSES WHICH YOU HAVE TO STUDY 50 TIMES WHILE DYING WITHOUT YOUR FAULT BECAUSE I SPAM A RANGE ATTACK WHICH YOU’D HAVE PROBABLY AVOIDED IF I DID ANYTHING YOU PRESSED IN TIME. if you want a soulslike play ds3. its shorter, more tense and pretty much the same crap, but less crappier. OR play returnal: the epidome of good game design, responsive controls, hard but fair combat and great music and superb (still cryptic) storytelling. where returnal is a bright shining star on the night sky, elden ring is an old **** on the side of a portable potty on the most disgusting construction site of the third world. 3/10 bussi baba
This is a masterpiece just like most of FromSoftwares titles. The satisfaction of making progress in these challenging games is unmatched. Even though I prefer a more linear but interconnected experience, this open world experience never gets boring. The world is filled with things to do without cluttering the in-game map. The game wants you to get lost and customize your own adventure on your own terms and there’s very little handholding from the beginning until the end. This is my perfect gaming experience and will undoubtedly be my game of the year.
Literally best open world game ever made in 2022. It's one of the most immersive not in term of realistic, but the superb design in the details, the world, the story and the mechanics. Fromsoft has leveraged their identity as soulborne game in this newest title Elden Ring, this is their milestone of achievement. Worth every penny.
Not a fan of Dark Souls games, but decided to give this a shot due to the high ratings and recommendations from friends. The open world is vast, and allows you to bypass stronger enemies and bosses to come back when you’re stronger. I play only as single player, which which probably makes things harder than they should be. As a coop game I expect some of the boss fights would be a lot more fun. If there’s a story somewhere in the game I must have missed it, maybe will still find it; like how I missed tutorial on the basics only to realize it after finding it on YouTube. Probably none of this is an issue for anyone familiar with Dark Souls games. Still I’ve logged over 40 hours so far and will likely get my money out of this game by the time I’m done, even if I don’t complete it. Update: Completed the game. 200+ hours played, I guess I enjoyed it more than I expected! Steep learning curve but eventually it clicked. The level design in the later levels is really amazing. Overall a great game.
Honestly tried to like the game because I did like the atmosphere and general world. But it soon became more frustrating than enjoyable. The game is grindy, repeats bosses, glitches out in frame rate during boss encounters (looking at you tree sentinel), and there is such a lack of any story which is funny because they attached George R Martin to this. Did he not bother to finish this story either ? Like what really happened here? This game is FAR from a 10/10. This souls game is hard just for the sack of being hard with little to no reward. Such trash and will NEVER give into hype again.
Quality game. Blows the competition out of the water and every other professional game company can take notes. I played DS3 and personally I love the grim dark souls world much more than this new piece of lore but it is still nonetheless amazing. It keeps to their identity and everyone can tell how this is such an amazing quality game. I have yet to come across any bugs, invisible walls, or microtransactions. Easily the best 10/10 I can give.
Understand that the reviews of people who are saying that there is a hype train, and the graphics aren't good, or it's too hard, are simply apart of the ever growing hype train to bash the game because simply put, nobody cares. This game is transcendental of the entire video game medium, and literally everyone knows it. They know it will still do well, with or without their negative review scores. So all of that put aside, why is this game a 10/10 experience? Very simply put, this IS the one piece of video games. The world is simply mystical to explore, and you will guaranteed have 1 of the most memorable experiences of playing games you will ever have at some point in this game, and probably at several points. I know I have. And that's cool and everything. But it wouldn't matter if the game isn't fun to play. And well, nobody wants to spoil how amazing that consistently evolves throughout the game. My lord what what a gameplay experience! Understand that everyone who is hating on this game, has still played it for over 100 hours. And at that point, you've already got your 60$ worth. Anyway, if this game was literally just the first area, it would probably be game of the year. But they added, an entire.... idek what else. A gigantic marvel of video games so ambitious its literally never been done before. So fedora tip to you From. A rare 10/10 experience. Oh yeah, story's good too.
Critics are way way off here. Gaming journalism has been dead for decades. It's really sad.
The one star is that the game is seriously overhyped, and eveeyone from the developers down are lying. It's arguably the least accessible FS game. The only people giving it perfect or near perfect scores are from people who are already FS die hard fans. The story is bare bone and the lore isn't that interesting. They're fun facts of a dying world.. I know there is a superb game in there somewhere but unless you can afford to put the dozens of hours into "getting good" or you're already a fan boy of the company you're probably going to be miserable. To From Softwares credit they don't pander to the casuals like me, I respect the hell out of that, but don't LIE to people about how it's the easiest and most accessible From Software game, especially when you've basically been playing the same thing for over a decade.
Too many bugs for a released game. No request logs, and you can encounter bugs randomly in every boss fight. Some of them suddenly don’t move. Some of them stay above a cliff and never come down. If you unfortunately die at the same time as the boss, there’s a chance you don’t get the loot and can never reach this piece of map again. The game is not pure rubbish, but full of rubbish.
10/10. They improve upon the fromsoft formula in every way, and you get addicted quite quickly
In many ways, the work of a critic is easy. We risk very little, yet enjoy a position over those who offer up their work - and their selves - to our judgement. We thrive on negative criticism, which is fun to write and to read. But the bitter truth we critics must face is that in the grand scheme of things, the average piece of junk is probably more meaningful than our criticism designating it so. But there are times when a critic truly risks something - and that is in the discovery and defence of the New. The world is often unkind to new talent, new creations. The New needs friends. Last night I experienced something new: an extraordinary game from a singularly expected source. To say that both the Elden and its maker FromSoftware have challenged my preconceptions about fine game design is a gross understatement. They have rocked me to my core. In the past, I have made no secret of my disdain for Chef Gusteau's famous motto; "anyone can design" But I realise, only now do I truly understand what he meant. Not everyone can become a great artist, but a great artist can come from anywhere. It is difficult to imagine more humble origins than those of the genius now directing at FromSoftwares - who is, in this critic's opinion, nothing less than the finest Kojima in the World! I will be returning to Limgrave soon - hungry for more
Score: 8.2 Graphics: 7.5 Art Design: 9.5 Audio: 9.5 Performance: 8.5 Gameplay: 9 Story: 7 (faulters from Gameplay) Originality: 5 First and foremost, quite a massive game. Theres no shortage of content and you could play for 100s of hours. That being said, ER is easily the most accessible From Software game on the market. Though some enemies can be more difficult than past Dark Souls, the fact you can overlevel so easily plus the better balance of MANY types of builds and improved combat system helps a ton in making it easier than its predecessors. Its also much easier to regain lost Runes after death making death itself feel a lot less daunting. Improved pacing of the open world would have better remedied the overleveling and power spike issue. The open world gameplay is definitely well-done for the most part. I love the freedom and exploration along with the mystery. Though I would have enjoyed better AI in the open world with greater variation (sometimes feels bland with the AI being overly scripted). Also, AI needs to better counter ranged attacks. You can abuse Sorcery spells against most enemies including bosses. Plus, pacing through the open world is sometimes slow--this will be hard to control in a large open world vs the past Souls games but I think theres definitely more that could be done in ER. All-in-all, the game does well at staying true to its Dark Souls roots within the open world. That being said, ER is easily one of weaker graphics of the new generation of games (pretty much just Dark Souls 3 upgraded). Highly outdated on some parts (such as foliage, trees, and character models which is obvious) and this was quite disappointing for a game that has such excellent atmosphere and art design--there are moments of beauty in the massive scale though such as with castles. Not only that, but there are moments of clear performance issues at times which is unusual for a game that is graphically inferior, has weaker AI systems, and not that much in the way of physics compared to most modern games, especially when compared to Horizon Forbidden West which is incredible what those devs did with their engine. In ER, you will have pop-in left and right of foliage. Rendering distance is pathetic. Often frame rate drops (im on performance mode btw). Lip syncing is abysmal. Enemies just outright disappear when they leave their 'zones' which makes for awkward moments. In my opinion, From Software needs to potentially look into a new engine. The game overall runs smooth but definitely dated. Also, the pacing of the narrative is not good. The narrative becomes a victim of its own gameplay design with the massive, free open world. Without REALLY tracking every narrative detail, it feels like a puzzle with thousands of pieces that you have to find and put together. I really did not like this as it made the narrative feel extremely disjointed and slow. This will of course vary from each persons experience. When the story is put together, its extremely intriguing and characters are amazing. The open world could also use more "depth" in building its narrative. Some buildings and objects just feel out of place in the design of the world and dont make sense. Yes they add atmosphere but good attention to detail can also give "background" or history to certain objects. Lastly, progression and balance of builds needs improved. On your first playthrough, you will definitely feel "locked" into a build and weapons till you get closer to endgame. A little more freedom to catching up certain weapons in scaling and respecing would be welcoming for how many different items there are. Attributes could also use some balancing, primarily how Weight Limit is treated along with Vigor being excessively relied upon up to its soft cap--HIGHLY dislike this and hopefully gets a bit rebalanced. Plus, cancel animations needs further tuned. Faster enemies from previous games should mean a bit more responsive character. Too many times I get locked in slow animations (like Flasks) or rolling just fails to respond. Greater refinement in this area. In the end, still a great game. Definitely worth it for the gameplay alone--definitelys an insane amount of content. Just not "next gen" nor is it entirely revolutionary. Its mainly Dark Souls 3 in an open world with improved and greatly balanced combat system. BUT, i hope other open world games (be it Ghost of Tsushima, Horizon, AC, etc) take notes that limited markers and bloated "collection" pieces are not necessary since consumers love mystery and freedom in their exploration. On the other side, theres definitely some things From Software could do better. Such as once we collect unique items (like Tears or defeated Bosses), to put a marker on the map that resembles that its been collected. BUT the gameplay loop is definitely excellent and the game is the most accessible of all the Dark Souls. Definitely worth a try.
Elden Ring is not a bad game, far from it. In a nutshell, it's Dark Souls 4. It has all the strength of the Souls series, but still has all its issues. Moreover, Elden Ring has a big lack of novelty. You can use a "horse" and jump, that's all. When Sekiro or Bloodborne tried to push the souls series in a different way, Elden Ring simply reuse the DS recipe. It also reuses skins, animations, textures, and the old DS graphics, so, even 1 year and a half after the PS5 release, it feels like you're playing on a PS4.
The game is good, no microtransactions and a fantastic world. The game is worth you money
Just an amazing experiencie, a fresh take on the Souls series. Game of the year for sure.
Don't expect an open world full of things, this is a soul game, so you'll die a lot and the "open world" will be full of tough monsters/knights to farm in order to level up. Unfortunately, you'll have to rely on guides to find what to do at the beginning. The game is good, but certainly not goty! Graphics are disappointing for ps5/xbox series x, there's a lot of bugs. Gameplay is archaic. Fan of the Souls serie will love it, but again isn't for everyone and is certainly not as good as all the reviews says.
Amazing, amazing. I have lost 40 hours of my time in this game and still beeing in the begining, and enjoying it a lot. If you are not into rpgs game, i suggest you play it with a internet "guide"; i do it and its fantastic.
So far this is the best game that has been released in PS5. I only give it a 9/10 because I’m comparing it to Witcher 3’s story. But mechanically, visually, and joy of playing is all there. I think this is a must play for any RPG fan. It’s difficult but not really. You start the game as a basic human.. if you think about that then you should realize you aren’t ready to fight a dragon on day 1.
So boring. Over hyped. Had enough after level 50. Just same thing over and over. Story is non existent
As a huge fan of the Dark Souls games i was really looking forward to Elden Ring and it does not disappoint. A huge and beautiful dark fantasy open world which is a joy to explore, there's so much to do and find and some really cool and fun boss fights. The game just drips quality it's really well made and atmospheric. There's so much freedom in building your character and tons of different weapons, armour and magic spells to find. There's also zero busy work which is something which ruins most other open world games. They nailed it, it's awesome. It isn't perfect though as at times i feel the game is just too difficult for the sake of it. Near the end of the game i was over level 100 and had a maximum level weapon so i was able to crush regular mobs with a few hits but i was barely scratching the bosses. Unless you want to spend hours trying to beat a single boss then summoning other players is essential. Also the final boss is complete nonsense. You are required to beat two of the hardest bosses in the game in a row with no rest in between. Basically you have to get perfect at beating the first boss before you can even practice how to beat the second one and i think that's a step too far. I have finished the Dark Souls games multiple times but i can't see myself returning to Elden Ring for a while even though i loved the game up until the final boss. Overall though this is a really great game and i'm looking forward to the DLC.
Easily one of the best games ever made and quite possibly the best game ever made. A true masterpiece and a must buy!
This is not only one of the best From-Soft games, but one of the greatest games ever made. There is just so much to this game. So much to explore, discover, kill... it's endless... though thankfully not... as it ended for me near the 200 hour mark. Yikes! Fantastic time sink, great game. This is a must play.
There is so much questionable game design in this game, especially in the later half. The game looks gorgeous, but there are too few fun boss fights. Incredible potential, a bit wasted away with a too big scope. I have 120 hours in this game, only 40 or so were actually enjoyable.
I agree the optimisation still has work to be done. It's absurd How anybody can call it a bland open **** combat has so many new mechanisms compared to earlier souls games Its was joy to explore the open world not knowing what could be around the next corner. Saying there is no story just shows how conditioned people are to being spoon fed the story
great game, doesn't stray from previous souls games but adds even more.worthy of winning goty
FromSoftware have done it again! One masterpiece after another. Incredible gameplay, build variety and the most beautiful world they have ever done! The only bad thing i can mention is reused bosses. And i don't mind reusing some big guys in the ruins or bosses like Erdtree Avatars, but reusing bosses like Godrick, Astel, Godfrey, Mohg and Margit... To represent my opinion on that subject i will quote my favorite influencer and rapper - Sonic: "that's no good!"
Outstanding game. People putting zero score reviews are just moronic... Put down your controllers and go find another hobby.
I've leveled a mage to 150ish and have killed 4 demi-god bosses and am thinking at this point that I won't finish it (but I might because I hate backing out of a challenge). But I'm giving this a bad review. The graphics are good and it's generally fun to explore the world and develop your character. But the boss fights (even mini bosses in dungeons) are incredibly hard. You will die over and over and over again. That's just how this game is designed. Even a "good" player will die a lot until they memorize the boss moves and learn to execute every dodge/block with exact timing. This breaks my immersion and is generally frustrating and no fun. They could have made this a fun game by simply putting in a difficulty setting so that gamers who want to play a RPG game for exploration and immersion can enjoy it. Edit: I should mention the "story". There apparently is one but you'll be challenged to understand what it actually is. There is some sort of random NPC talk about historic events but honestly I'm in end game now and can't really tell you much about the story line. I watched a YouTube video a guy put together about the "lore" and it was far more informative than the game. So ... what did GRR Martin actually contrbute here? It can't have been much. A few minor complaints: no quest log. Huh. That's a first in any RPG game I have to say. No hot keys for the (MANY) spells available (that's a game breaker really). You literally have to toggle through a list to switch between spells/skills ... during fights that require split second timing or you're dead.
The game is just outstanding there hasn’t been a game that I have played that I just want to keep playing, after I beat the game I just want to do another play through. The game play is amazing and just so smooth I mostly recommend this game to people that just loves video games and love a challenge
A big dark souls with the best from the series plus some new mechanical innovations (ashes of war) and mantaining the amazing design of levels on a far more complicated context as a sandbox rpg is. Definetely an amazing game but more of the same. It is for sure the best From game objectevely, but from a perspective of someone who has played their games since 2009 with Demons Souls on my old PS3, i can criticize this is not the way, cause it is the same but more polished. I want a new big IP. 9/10.
I liked it a lot, it’s pretty difficult but that is all of my problems with the game. Personally I wish that there was an indicator at the top of the hud that said what you should be doing at the current time because I spent a lot of the game just the aimlessly wandering and killing the same Enemies over and over.
One of the greatest games I've ever played as well as one of the most immersive RPG's I have experienced. FromSoftware has saved gaming for me, a true old school gamers game.
FROMSOFT delivers yet again. Please buy this; support this company, there one of the very few good ones left.
The new GOAT of video games. The attention to detail is immaculate. Combat is fluid and precise. Progression feels natural. Exploration is exciting and thrilling.
definitely a masterpiece. but still overated. extremely annoying recycled bosses and an AWFUL balancing of weapons etc.
Best game I've ever played, I read some bad reviews and de people who wrote it probably didn't even beat the first main boss. They say the game has no story while there are youtubers making 1 hour+ vídeos about the lore of the game. You should definetely play this game, the open world is amazing, the combat is amazing, everything about this game is amazing, I just love it so much
Character design 7 Originality 5 Gameplay 7 Story 7 Sound and music 7 Visual fidelty 6 Mechanics ancient except for the jump Frame pacing is ugly ..2022 games should feel as premium as demon souls at least
Absolute masterpiece and a game that will most likely be hold has a staple in the future for exploration and combat. I don't think we'll have anything as good within the next few years , I don't think even from software will be able to top this gem
The game does not have English in a lot of countries in Asia and does not give refunds. Basically the game is unplayable and discriminates against ex-pats in Asia.
Perfection The game is incredible the game play is mind blowing the environment is indescribable
Its much more beginner friendly than dark souls 3. The game world, which is open is just beautiful. You can go through this game in any order you want. The only downside is the optimization.
Final boss is garbage. Uninteresting and unnecessarily hard. Best game in the world to not buy or play. Ever!
The best title for a mewcomer to this type of games, that is still reluctant. It has perfected difficulty. Artstyle, combat, quests, lore, soundtrack, UI and direction are on another level. Truly the definitive Souls title. Grab it and have fun.
Most overhyped and overpraised game ever thought it was Zelda but even Cyberpunk is better than this
Hands down, this is the wet dream of every souls fan. Simply a Masterpiece.
Its is my first Dark Souls Type Game ever, i never managed to get into those type of games because of bad mindset but this time i said to myself if you are dying you are just learning how to beat a boss and it worked. This Game is absolutely one of the best games i ever played and im a Gamer for almost 30 years. The Performance on PS5 could be better but its good enough to enjoy it. Gameplay, Open World, Quest Design, Dungeon Design, Boss Design all at the highest Level ive ever seen. Dont get fooled by 0 Star Ratings here these people are just mad that they bought a Game because of hype and then hadnt the correct mindest to progress.
One of the best gaming experiences of my lifetime. Yes, there are flaws as with all games such as reused enemies. But what else can you expect out of a world this massive? And they managed to include massive unique dungeons and areas that are so enthralling, the repeated side content was almost a footnote. Masterpiece.
Would be 10 but no Hideo kojima but story good and boss make me wanna cry I hate margrit
Dark souls^100, do the math Yes some performance issues at the begining , but now everything is smooth like butter
It isn’t perfect but it’s one of the most rewarding fun experiences I’ve had in quite a while. I would love to see what From does with this concept next
Possibly the best game I have ever played, 70 hours in and I continue to be stunned.
An undescribable amount of effort has been put into this game. The openworld exploration is simply flawless to say, there's a surprise for you in every corner. There are rewards out there that ACTUALLY help you in some or the other way. Running unto npcs has never been more surprising and each of the NPCs are so unique and different than one another. Although the questlines are difficult to complete without wiki help. Boss design is also tremendous and one of the best I have ever seen. Each boss has unique and different mechanics. Learning all of their moves and beating them feels really satisfying. Although sometimes it can be quite unforgiving. Lastly, don't trust all these negative reviews. They are trash fortnite gamers who never played a real video game or are jealous of Elden Ring. This game doesn't do hand holding and leave everything for you to figure it out and their low IQ cannot fathom it so here they come and rant out.
JESUS CHRIST. Thank you for this game... My first FromSoftware game, will definetly be playing all the following ones. Just finished after 80 hours of gameplay and in a few weeks i'll start it all over and start exploring again. Thanks again
I do not review this a 10 lightly, i have just got the plat after almost 100 hours. This is as much of a perfect game as you can get. Obviously you can’t please everyone as people have their own tastes but this game is remarkable. Often when a genre evolves into something else they lose some of what made the previous games so good. Fromsoftware have managed to evolve their genre into open world and keep everything that makes soulsbourne games amazing. You have all the same style lore, where you are left with only a very vague guide as to how to progress. The amount of weapons, spells, incantations and so on is incredible. Each build feels different. I played the bulk as a mage and almost all spells had a use in a certain scenario. They have made sure not to present filler spells like in previous games. I found myself trying out all of them. What i love about this game is people will be finding secrets for years to come. I love to see the insane secrets people discover. The only other game with that level of design is RDR2. You feel like you are in a living world. It feels like the enemies and NPC have a life when you arent on screen, like you have interrupted them. It’s difficult to explain, but it is so immersive. They have made it a little easier (save a few bosses, Malenia for example, christ she is awful). The reason i think its a tad easier is dur to openworld, you dont get log jammed in an area as you can leave and come back. Its actually insulting that anyone who has played Elden Ring would score it less than a 7. Even if the game is not your taste it is ridiculous to even claim this isnt a 7+ on performance alone. Shame on you review bombers. We need to appreciate and celebrate games like this. Games you can tell are made with passion by people who want to play them. 10/10
best rpg, and games, just because it seems to be the only product that could be call games since may years. because now games studio don't understand what is a games, and seems to don't try it before release. fromsoftware is studio that make games from passionate to passionate. that why it is the best games since few years
Do not buy this overhyped piece of garbage! You will end up regretting it. Even the graphics look completely outdated. If you like wasting hours on end just to beat one measly side boss, with repeated creatures, and PS3 style graphics, then have at it. This game is like running your head repeatedly into a brick wall. I don’t consider it a game, it’s work and not even worth the effort. Trust me, stay clear from this game. It’s not as good as you might be hearing. There are way better games out there right now! Ghostwire and new Lego Star Wars game crap all over elden ring! Heck, stranger of paradise I am enjoying 100 times more. Game is not even worth $20!
From Software really knocked Elden Ring out of the park. The same formula from the rest of the Souls series wrapped into a truly expansive open world atmosphere. Graphically immersive and beautifully rendered enemies and world make Elden Ring a truly magical experience. Elden Ring has successfully brought me out of my gaming rut and made me fall back in love with gaming.
I love this game I have over 230 hours in and I'm not tired of it. I'm on new game ️ 4
I don't think the game is bad, but it's not for me and the wide amount of talk and marketing I saw before I got the game implied this would be a game I could and would enjoy playing with others, and... frankly, from what I've heard, it's a standard FromSoftware game which is fine if you like that, but it seems not for me. Don't believe the hype and marketing, this is just another Soulsborne style game EXACTLY like the others but with open world. If you already like their games, you'll probably love this one, but if you don't... don't buy their games. Edit: on further play, this game is so incredibly buggy. I have fought a boss and half the fights they were bugged and so I couldn't do any damage... The game crashes while standing still in a calm area... just so buggy and broken.
So you're a knight/mage/assassin/whatever character in Middle Earth - oops i mean "The Lands Between" - and you're one of many people vying for power of The One Ring - oops I mean the "Elden Ring" - **** know...magical realms, power, knights and kings, blah blah blah, all that nonsense. You can see why people are raving about the originality here. Gameplay wise, think Dark Souls crossed with Dark Souls crossed with an empty map. You won't find side quests (not legitimate ones), side activities, a story, or anything else, but the combat does have quite a bit of depth. Lots of talk about the open world but honestly I've seen nothing to write home about. There's no way to engage with this world beyond fighting bosses in it (because again, this is Dark Souls). Just don't go in expecting an open world game in the style of RDR, Far Cry, Fallout, Assassins Creed, GTA, Just **** pretty much any open world game you know of. This is Dark Souls.
This game is an absolute masterpiece ruined by TERRIBLE balancing. It’s a shame that mini bosses are 10 times more difficult than actual story line bosses. Even then they just one hit you. Great game design, bad player experience
Elden Ring is a very hard game to recommend the lore and the story and the overall world is absolutely amazing. However From Software continues with their arrogance and refuses to add an easy mode making this game a definitive skip for about 75% of gamers. It's really a shame since you can spend hundreds of hours in the game world. I can only hope for an easy mode down the line cause this game shouldn't be missed
Reading some of the negative reviews makes me jealous I haven’t played the games they have. I don’t think they played the game. How this game is both empty and boring is beyond me. Few games have more variety than this, personally I don’t know a single one. Summary great game, some of the people leaving negative tevoews are just straight up lying.
One of the best games ever made! Definitely the biggest and most ambitious game of FromSoftware. No doubt 10 out of 10 Gina play more and more
as someone who has played all of the dark souls games a minimum of 5 times each (and most of them 7+) i can tell you that this game is as brutal as it gets in the series, but oh boy is it worth it. the combat is as good as its gonna get and they world is amazing. the boss and enemy quality is top notch (exept a few gank bosses). my only compaint is that the game has absurd damage and enemy health and that you really have to explore to get to a decent level in terms of stats, if you just rush bosses (like me) you are gonna have a rough time. great, beautiful game with insane replay value and objectively the best in the souls series, 9,1/10
Coming into Elden Ring, I was not a huge Souls fan, but was always intrigued by FS games and their RPG/ Action systems. I love open world RPGs, and so I decided to give this one a try. Well, I am 100% blown away with Elden Ring. Two-Hundred + hours in and I have still not explored or defeated everything, and I'm not even in New Game +. Unbelievable. There are too many good things to say about this game, and in my opinion, very few bad things to note. Try Elden Ring, In short, seek but hole.
I can't say I had much fun in this game but I do still love it quite a lot. Honestly the main issue for me is just how annoying so many areas can be along with some of the enemies but then again thats most fromsoft games. I think Elden ring is definitely incredible and a game you should try out if you are interested. If you are new to souls like game then you might have a pretty rough time though ngl. The only reason I found this game easy at all was probably because it felt so much like Ds3. A few things I have issues with: Gravity and falls are kinda inconsistent Weird jank and glitches reskin bosses and duo bosses using previously seen bosses the last boss is underwhelming/boring as a melee build pvp is a nightmare unbalanced as hell some good things? It can be really fun i guess Combat is mostly the same as ds3 but feels smooth and responsive open world is beautiful horse weapon and armor options are insane Dope bosses with many exceptions
A bit too easy but clearly best game of the last years. Get lost in a fantasy world where everything will punish your mistakes.
The metacritic score made me think this was a masterpiece, it´s not :( it´s ok, but not worth the 75$ i paid for it.
This game is absolutely excellent. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS GAME. It is so well written, looks beautiful, and is such a breath of freshair with all the other cookie cutter open world **** being mass produced. The story is so good. I have over 200 hours so far and I still can't put it down!
Easily the best game I've ever played 10/10, no bias, never played a dark souls before, only watched, and literally, the best game ever. Open World, Fun, Hard, what's there not to love about this game?
One of the best games played in a long time. The level design is amazing and it's so satisfying to stumble on an new secret location. Exploring always pays off. The gameplay is familiar as can be expected from FromSoft which is nice. They added some new twists that I can really appreciate. On a critical note; the side quest can he hard to track. luckily there is an active online community to help with that. Even though the side quest can get lost easily it's no deal breaker in any way.
Fromsoftware does it again! They are the best in the industry and deserve all the attention and credit they are receiving. The game is an absolute masterpiece, Miyazaki’s Magnum Opus, beautifully created world enthralling story that seems vague on the surface but gets deeper as you explore and progress through the game and read item descriptions (this has been their model for all their games and it works wonderfully). I’ll expect and accept nothing less than Game Of The Year for this sensational game! It features a gigantic map with over a hundred hours of content in a single play through. Fromsoftware Reigns Supreme and I couldn’t be happier! I’ve been a Fan since discovering them around the time when Dark Souls 1 came out and they have never disappointed me!
Absolute masterpiece! Best game I've played. Lived up to the hype. The challenge of the game makes beating each boss feel like an accomplishment.
Loved it! Got the Platinum and easily sank 150+ hours into the game. If you are a Fromsoftware fan, you will absolutely love this! The addition of Torrent and being able to attach whatever weapon skill you want to any weapon was a great addition!
I try to play previous souls games and I find it to hard. I never finished any souls games before and now after playing Elden Ring for 120 hours I can say I finally manage to finish a souls game for the first time, Elden Ring give me the opportunity to go out of my way explore and get stronger to deal with my opponents that's something we never had before in any souls games! Elden Ring is the best game I ever played it's so good that I had to make an account here and give my first time score a 10 to Elden Ring I need to share my love for this game is simply **** amazing! I play on PC in the first days we had some frame drop issues on PC and still there sometimes its rare now but happens sometimes, but you what? I don't care, everything else it's so amazing and the game just keep blowing my mind, the full scale of this game exploration it's something I never saw in any game before 1000 out of 10, yes is that good!
I never write game reviews, but after reading all the bad reviews I felt like I needed to offset at least one of them. This will be short and sweet. The Game is hard. As a 35 year old man that is use to playing hard nes games such as megaman and other titles, it's a breath of fresh air compared to other games that hold your hand. It's a beautiful game, just go look up screenshots of in game game play and the environment. It runs near perfect in framerate mode. I'm almost 80 hours in and I would suspect I'm close I'm halfway done with the game. There's so much to it and so many secrets I take my time exploring every inch of the map. This game is so good and it already has been wishing it wouldn't end. The only reason I scored it a 9/10 is because of the multi-player. I can tell the developers want you to play this solo, but it so much fun playing with a buddy. The developers make it a hassle to play with each other and you constantly have to resummon a friend to keep playing. If you like harder game play and a game that potentially could take you 150 hours or more to beat while enjoying everything it has to offer, do yourself a favor and pick this up
this game is the pinnacle of the souls genre that simply saved the whole videogame industry. GOTY 2022 for sure!
We are in 2022 and you still ignore the Arabic language, as if we were in 2010. This is a real insult. Feel a little ashamed and ashamed, and you want $60 without adding the Arabic language, what a real theft.
I’ve never touched a Fromsoft title before, and have long feared their purportedly oppressive difficulty (A thrashing on the first mission of Nioh 2 only deepened this fear). However, this game got me hooked, and I’m reassessing my feelings about the genre. Elden Ring is a wonderful game, and I’ve thoroughly enjoyed it. I think that it is not without its flaws, However, Fromsoft has been alright about fixing some of the mechanical issues, and the game is massive. First I’ll start off with the issues. The most obvious being that it is a hard game, there is an uneven distribution of difficulty currently, with an emphasis on some of the somewhat mindless duo boss fights. There are also very tough enemies in the open world that will surely obliterate you if you challenge them just out of the gates. Besides that a few bosses have already been nerfed, the open world nature of this game allows you to level in order to closer match the difficulty of encounters and areas to your own skill level. Next are frame rate and graphics. This game has nothing approaching revolutionary graphics, and its frame rate is prone to drops when encountering high numbers of enemies at once. However, the frame drops have not caused major issues undue damage or deaths in my play-through so far. In addition, despite the minor graphical upgrades from Dark Souls 3, Elden Ring still contains striking imagery using colors and visuals against the grey, war torn landscapes of the Lands Between to great effect, easily one of the most beautiful games in that regard. Lastly are the nitpicks, the enemy AI is not amazing, they are often tethered to a certain area, leading to awkward moments where they will be extremely reluctant pursue you past a very apparent point to an almost comical degree, as well once you’ve over leveled, some of the minidungeon bosses in the early game become totally trivialized, an unfortunate side effect of the way things run in the game. There is also a vague story, told mostly through small details, inferences, and snippets of dialogue from the occasional NPC. The Lands Between are ravaged by war and stagnation due to the ****, however it can occasionally feel quite empty of normalcy. As well, the game has a still evolving map, that as of right now makes it difficult to complete quests without the aid of fellow players via the internet. On the flip side, this game finally offers an answer to the “git gud” content wall in the form of the near total openness of the world and its leveling. If you’re lacking in skill (like me) you can use that to gain a few levels and even the playing field against bosses, summoning has a similar effect, but the game does make those optional to grant those Souls veterans the challenge they demand. The lore is quite interesting, and not all questions are answered, R. R. Martin has done well with the big picture lore elements here. As well, experiencing this world is uniquely interesting due to its lack of hand holding and fruitless repetitive fetch quests (other than acting as a courier between a few NPC’s once or twice, though the pace you do that is up to you in the end). The major zones feel unique and game shines where it counts, adding in loads of ambiance. While I recognize there is more to be asked here, I think that this game delivers a new degree of life to the Souls genre of games, and leaves me wanting more. I look forward to further patches, content, and other work surrounding this game and its universe. I would definitely highly recommend this game to anyone looking for a deep or difficult experience in an interesting world with fascinating lore. One of the best games in recent memory, and certainly one of my favorites.
This game is a souls game. It has a deep story that you need to look for, it has a great combat system you need to learn. The game wont hold your hand with quest markers and button prompts to dodge. I love this game as well as all the others they make. If you like games that dont treat you like a child play this game.
Went through some of the negative reviews, and don't see how people fail to see why this is a masterpiece. I for one am new to soul games. The graphics are great, it doesn't "have to be better" than it's predecessors in order for it to be a great game. Why some cry over " bad graphics" is beyond me - I don't see anything bad about it on the ps5. If you don't get the rolling, dodging and bashing then maybe Tetris is better game for you. Personally, this is one of the best games I ever played. Lastly, another thing people complain about - because they love complaining is the controls? For real? How wil the controls be better? I don't see or understand why that is an issue. Compared to most other games, this one is without a doubt a winner for those who love a challenge and an open world.
so finally I managed to jump in Elden Ring, had it already on release day, but Forbidden West and another round of Zero Dawn took time....tough to go into that world when you come out of Horizon, which is much more beautiful, colorful and a driven story based **** the first hours were really tough and I thought of quitting and putting it aside first, but no, I liked Demon Souls, I liked Dark Souls so I waited for that trigger to keep me playing, and there it was, now I am stuck in this world ;) it is all the best from DS3 and Demon **** more you get into that the more you like it! graphic wise it cannot challenge Horizon, not even Zero Dawn, but it still looks pretty good sometimes. the enemies are awesome, Lord of the Rings feeling! The best improvements compared to prev Souls games: Refill of the healing drinks during open world travels, fair save points in the encounters, challenging, but fair. The worst: No quest log, I don`t know what the idea behind is, but it is impossible to remember every NPC quest...there is no sense at all I find not to have a **** this alone minus 2 **** do I need to google first what I have to do in castle Morone for example first. the other minus is for the performance on the PS5, in Horizon which is much more detailed and beautiful it is smooth as hot butter, but in Elden Ring I find myself with lags....annoying sometimes. All in all great game, but I never would rate it as high as it is in all the magazines. I will be lost in this world for a couple of hours I guess :)
One of the best games of the decade! It feels like every game From Software ever released was merely a trial for the gigantic and incredible experience that is Elden Ring. Being a huge fan of the Soulsborne series myself, I was completely awed by the way From Software merged together the best aspects of every single entry into one mindblowing open world game. The world feels amazing and detailed, exploration rewarding, the top notch art and sound design create an incredible atmospheric surrounding that one can get truly lost in for hours. The newly added features to accompany the open world design such as horse riding, more accessible fast travel and additional save points work perfectly well. The world feels detailed and full of things to discover. Since Elden Ring introduces some of the sagas most incredible boss fights, new freedom in exploration while staying true to the original feeling of the Soulsborne series and further enhancing the always amazing combat system, most veterans will for sure enjoy this installement. Added to this, the open design as compared to the mostly linear level design of the other From Software games will definitely open up Elden Ring to a wider range of players. While the game is still "hard" as compared to other current triple A titles and can therefore feel frustrating from time to time, the variety of tools the player is handed as well as the option to simply leave when being confronted with an overpowered enemy and return at a later stage after leveling up makes it more accessible even for players who have not yet had any expierence with the Dark Souls franchise. Furthermore, I feel like I have to specify how incredible huge this game is. Even rushing through only the main bosses and dungeons (the main dungeons being called „legacy dungeons“), it will still most likely take you up to 30-40 hours to complete it, with this number getting easily pumped up to over 100 hours if you take your time for exploration, side quests and optional bosses. You for sure get a lot of content for your money. However, even the best games are not without flaws and Elden Ring is no exception. Despite being the most accessible any From Software game has ever been, it still could use some more explanation and especially new to the series players might feel lost and overwhelmed at the start. It seems like From Software intends the players to play the game with occasional consultation of online forums and wikis, which is fine, but should be considered. Added to this, the game seems to be suffering from some technical issues and bad porting to PC, ranking the PC version of the game significantly lower then the ones for consoles. Playing with mouse and keyboard seems to deteriorate the overall experience by quite a bit as compared to the seemingly intended way to play with a controller. This review is created for the PS5 version after the day one patch. While playing no technical issues or framedrops occured, therefore this aspect of criticism of the game was not relevant for my personal playing experience. I strongly recommend anyone that likes fantasy action RPGs to try it out, no matter if you already have any experience with other Soulsborne titels or not. Don’t get yourself locked out of this adventure by fearing the so often cited high difficulty of this installment and just give yourself the chance to get soaked into the incredible and mindblowing journey that is Elden Ring. This game made me rediscover the amazement and excitement of childhood / teenage gaming like no other game has done for years. All in all, despite some minor flaws, Elden Ring for me is one of the best games of the decade and without any doubt a masterpiece.
Awesome! Best game since a very long time. If you want to be part of something big - play it!
Elden Ring could've been the best FROM game, and one of the best games ever made, if it wasn't for some performance issues (on the PS5 there are constant frame-drops and the difference in frame rate is visible and feelable) and an extremely unbalanced end-game (there are enemies that can one-shot you, even when you're in level 190, which makes no sense) due to bugs and just a general feeling that they didn't polish the balancing so well. Despite that, it is a game with a massively unbelievable scope, an absolutely fascinating world full of mysteries and a real sense of discovery (can't help but compare it to BOTW) and a MUST-play (like all the other FROM games).
I've never been a brother with the Souls series. I never touched any part, and the only game from FromSoftware that I finished was Sekiro. I watched the trailers and gameplay of the Elden Ring and decided to give it a try. I will not say that seeing videos on Youtube, I was most captivated by the beautiful open world. So, the game was purchased a month after the premiere and started: I soaked in 125 hours of wonderful gameplay. FromSoftware's storytelling style is so great that I couldn't tear myself away from my computer. I spent about 100 hours exploring every bit of the map, patting the optional bosses and riding my horse wherever my eyes can see me. More than once, I found myself turning in a specific direction because I was meeting something equally interesting. In order not to write too much, I will mention the most important points in my opinion: PROS: + a beautiful open world with a huge amount of content that encourages detachment, + interesting story and nicely written characters - I got hooked so much that after finishing the game I sit and read lore on the internet. + interesting combat system, lots of weapons, nice attacks, ashes of war, skills, + the system of summoning ghosts to help - he saved me many times in the fight against the boss and it was pleasant to develop this large number of ghosts. + HORSE - perfect for exploring the world - nice speed, not muddy, something great. + Bosses - bosses everywhere, no matter where I entered it was a satisfying boss fight after clearing the area. + Grind - some treated it as a minus, but I thought the runes for the next lvl were very pleasant and I watched my character develop with pleasure. + difficulty - compared to Sekiro, it was quite easy here. I tortured the Crucible Knight the most in the eternal prison (out of 30 times), but Melania came down the first time :) the last BOSS after the third. + Rivers of Blood - this katana is a dream
One of the the rarest games on the planet, the first open world game that let me stick to my joystick since skyrim , the difference here is that elden ring let you explore the world in a new manner, there is no marker no quest log just you , simple map and the world , there a lot of things to do , many bosses , areas to explore and all that is gratifying, i am playing it since release and i am on my 170 hours on my first playthrought,i dont want it to end yet and i am enjoying it a lot !
Nothing to say except best game since Mgs3. Open world is big and fun and the story is deep and explorable. Gameplay is top notch and the new tools From gave us are perfect additions for every fight
How is an English option for purchase in Asian countries not available? Just seems like they're trying to milk players who accidentally bought this version and want to play the US version.
An incredibly hard and intense adventure! Never did a new game + before, and I'm already at my NG+4 with Elden ring and intend to go further. The world they created appears to be so deep. That feeling is very rare in a game.
As always an encrypted history and the most repetitive game I have ever played, always the same bosses...
Beautiful game, nice open world, and my first FromSoft game. Overall I found the difficulty too high for a starting player. I hoped to see a gradually increasing difficulty, but it is almost impossible in the beginning. Since you lose your stuff every time you die when you did not get to consume your runes, it is a frustrating game.
Im a first hour "Souls" Player and i love Demons Souls, DS and BB. Sekiro was too hard for me, cant finished the **** Elden Ring...Elden Ring is a bad Joke. Far Harder then any Souls Game ever made, including Sekiro and Nioh 1-2. The one and only main Problem here is the incomming dmg. The dmg is so extremly high that its just impossible to play the Game as a Melee even as an Souls Veteran. Many Attacks just oneshot you, a lot of attacks twoshot you...this is not fair and not fun to play. And Miyazaki lies about the difficulty. He said that more Player see the End of the Game, more then in other Souls **** a Lie. He made the Game far harder increasing the incomming dmg by (i think) 40-60% to other DS Games and Lied to sell more Copys. ER ist the worst Souls Game ever Made. You can play as a Mage, you can play with the -50% dmg Mod on PC or the can get oneshottet 20 times a day. Payed 70$ for this crap Balance.
Awesome game Great lore Awesome bosses Good graphics Horse 87 bosses Huge map bigger than gta 5 and skyrim combined Spent 50 hours and still at 50% of the game Bad balancing
5 reasons Gameplay is wonderful. The game is beautiful. No matter what direction you look in you're greeted with a heavenly sight. There's a playstyle for everyone. It's a tad easier in my opinion than other the rest of Fromsoft games so if you're put off by ultra hard games then this I promise you isn't that bad. I promise you'll want to play this through more than once
This game is fantastic, after trying souls games many years ago, and give up after a few hours, i decided to try again on this one and i cannot regret After a few hours of dying, I finally got it. The exploration aspect and infinite paths, associated with unimaginable bosses make this game an unmissable experience for any game lover. I finished the game after 60 hours
One of the best game ever created. If you dont want your life overtaken by game stay away. So adicted!
Technically, this is an abomination. Patchy framerate. Poor hit detection. Low-res textures. Awful sound design. Going from a modern open-world title - like Horizon: Forbidden West - to this, demonstrates a staggering lapse of effort from From Software in terms of developing next generation games. This is a PS3 title in all but name. In terms of gameplay, it's Dark Souls open world. But with the same combat. Weapons. Enemies. Menus etc. Recycled assets. Recycled systems (summoning is as archaic as ever; what happened to just pressing 'start > invite friend for coop'?). The narrative is practically non-existent and beyond abstract. And I don't mean 'abstract' in a Lynchian chin-stroke way, I mean 'abstract' as in going into a museum of modern art, nearly bumping into a set of stacked chairs only for the curator to yell at you for disturbing the 'art'. It's poor. The hyperbole surrounding this game is quite staggering, as are complicit paid "professional" college boy drop out reviewers. It's a 10 year old game wrapped up in hype, slapped across a technically abysmal open world, with back-of-box tickers such as 'crafting' added to make it seem fresh and modern. But it isn't. Elden Ring is a decent hack and slash game. There's still enough merit to the Demon's Souls formula to make it a decent game to play, but it is in no way a leader of the gaming medium. Take away the From Soft logo, and people forget about this game in a few weeks. That' the reality.
I remember the first time I stepped off the ship in Morrowind into a small burg, I felt goosebumps. It felt like a wide open world, full of secrets and ready to be explored. That game was magical. I had the same feeling when I pushed open a tomb door and stepped out into Limgrave. I don’t finish many 40+ hour games because, eventually, my sense of immersion is lessened or gone completely, and I feel like it’s time to move on. Sometimes I push through to the end credits and just don’t feel that satisfied with the adventure; there’s always that feeling of “I should be doing something else right now” lingering in the back of my head. My first playthrough of ER took 117 hours. When it was finished, I felt like I’d gone on an epic journey. I’m looking forward to the next playthrough. In my opinion, only FromSoft is putting out experiences like this right now. It will be a game that turns off many people, but for every person who can’t get into it, there will be someone like me who didn’t know how badly they needed this thing.
Definitely souls are not for me I got quite bored. I don't know why they say they are difficult if the patterns are so obvious.
Absolute masterpiece. I have 60 hours in and I just hit the halfway point. The sheer vastness of this game is just insane. The only chance this game has of not winning is if God Of War comes out this year. Even then, it's going to take A LOT to top Elden Ring.
Coming from the other games in the Soulsborne series I didnt know what to expect, yet this game has managed to surprise me. Elden Ring is a current day masterpiece, from its design to its gameplay, everything has scratched and pierced perfection. I cannot talk enough about the greatness of this game. All of the boss encounters are unique and challenging, and the reward you gain from every encounter is unmatchable. You don't get many in-game rewards for beating the bosses, but you get a personal achievement. This game is awesome, the music is insane, the world is vast, and enormous, the gameplay is crazy. I 100% recommend this game.
Fromsofts Magnum opus, it incorporates elements of every previous adventure for an absolute kickass game. Gorgeous world, great writing, fun combat, cool bosses. If this game came out in 2021 it would be game of the year hands down
Elden Ring is undoubtedly another "Souls" game. And that, at it's core is perfectly fine. HOWEVER, From Software truly struggles to differentiate their games. If you have played Demon's Souls, Dark Souls, DS2, DS3, Bloodbourne, and Sekiro (a Souls like Tenchu) you will almost immediately recognize the same tired animations, "bonfires" and sound effects. For the hardcore fans that is all they play, they may feel right at home and comforted by a few of the reskinned enemies. If this were EA or Ubisoft they would be crushed. But somehow FS gets a break and praise. Not from me. Again FS releases another poorly optimized launch for their already tired and uninspired combat system. The graphics are as usual From Software, under par. But sure the world has a very pretty "Set Piece". The soundtrack is minimal as usual. But nicely done. Voice acting in Elden Ring is decent, as is the story. But that isn't "the point" right? It's about overcoming challenges..... and the biggest challenge with From Software is their inability to make a new IP without making it feel the same as their prior work. (An example being BioWare's Dragon Age, and Mass Effect are made by the same group, same genre and play completely differently. Elden Ring is solid. But hell no is this game near perfect. I am worried about those who reviewed it. It seems like bias fans reviewing it
A Superb open world experience that offers free exploration in which any direction you go something unique and special awaits. No game has offered this level of exploration in existence, and the incredible scope of the lands between offer an incredibly in depth world down to its Lore, Regions and even weapon, Armor and magic options. As a huge From Software fan this is what Hidetaka Miyazaki always imagined for his open world Souls experience. To see it finally realized is a huge privilege as Elden Ring is in my Top 3 games of all time even though its open-ended design decreases the games overall challenge. In some capacity perhaps making the game open world has opened up the Souls style gameplay loop to more people. If so its been worth it as the games quality is still top notch.
There are some port performance issues like stuttering and lags online, but it's not game-breaking. There are also hackers that purposely want to destroy your save files, but they are very few-Overall, this game is the ultimate form of Dark Souls we all have been looking for and more. Expansive world, weapons, spells, incantations, 93 bosses, and lore. Forget all the negativity from maidenless reviewers out there and git gud.
World Design is great. Huge Variation of Monsters. But the gameplay is not really good. It is basically a Hack&Slay with not much variation in Combat. You get lot's of stuff in the game, but most of it is useless and does not really help against Bosses. Boss Fights are mostly silly try to hit enemies feet (because they are all quite tall, the feet is the only thing you can reach), jump and roll around like crazy to escape attacks with a bit of luck. Your Died. With the 50th attempt you may win with a lot of luck. Really fantastic looking end bosses but such poor game mechanics. I really have no clue what the hype around this game with it's outdated gameplay mechanics from the early Eighties and a completely insane difficulty level.
It's like a 3 level step up from the masterpiece that is breath of the wild. It's a difficult game but players are given a workaround to ease difficulty (ashes, spells, incantations, weapon skills). The build possibilities are amazing and the fun factor of discovering the different NPC storylines and new world biomes is something that would make it a very memorable game for decades to come.
This is my first soulslike game. I wasn't going to play it but I picked it up because of they hype surrounding the game, and I can't put it down. I love the world. I love exploring it, and I love that the game rewards you for exploring it. It feels to me like an RPG should. I love that you learn about the story through interactions with NPCs, enemies, and exploration. It really feels like you're making your own story in the world, and I think that's something a lot of RPGs today miss out on. I wasn't sure I'd enjoy the difficulty level in the game, but I can honestly say that I enjoy it. It's hard, but fair. Beating bosses feels meaningful. One of my favorite things about the game is the art direction. Some people have complained that it's graphics fall short of top tier for gen 5 systems, but the game's art direction more than makes up for it. I think it's going to continue to look beautiful for decades to come even as graphics continue to improve. I really can't recommend this game enough. It's one of my new favorites.
An unmissable masterpiece... From Software's souls mechanisms at their absolute Best moments...more of an art than a video game...
I do not understand why those who love the game love it so much. I played the game for 20 hours and heard 30 sentences in total, how is this a perfect game? Is it the game of the year to make a map and fill it with ridiculous bosses and creatures? I've played the game for 20 hours and I don't understand what's going on in the game, there is no such nonsense game. There are already a few dialogues in total, and they wrote them so strangely to create mystery. For example, I see someone in the game, I think he will talk about what the game is about. He makes two stupid sentences and says go on, I can't deal with you. When I went to that round table, for the first time I said, "Okay, now they'll tell you two things". They said two ridiculous things. Someone said let me know if you see that woman, a woman hugged me and then said f.. off now. The other one has a wheel on his head, he said, "Let me teach you something" and he was teaching magic. Someone stands and looks at me and doesn't speak at all. Something like two statues is holding on to a stick selling something, what kind of environment is that? Tell me this. Is not it? For example, I came across something like a big cauldron while I was traveling, it was stuck on the ground and I saved it by hitting it, so this is not a normal type, is it? You have to explain this, the talking cauldron, it has hands and arms, what is it, where did it come from? No. "I'm alexander I'm traveling" that's it??? I entered one cave, there are wolves etc. Then I went through a fog and there's a creature I can't remember the exact name of, something like the monster man of azura. I killed him and got out in 5-6 tries. Eh? What's up now? What did I understand, he is a type that looks like he has mutated from wolves, what is he looking for here, who is he? They modeled it and threw it there, two moves, it's over. Is this the perfect game? In short, there is no story that draws me in. If there is a story with a boss, you are ambitious to learn the continuation of that story, you try to defeat it, right? What's the story in this game? What motivates you in this game? What makes you wonder to continue? Does the next boss shoot by spinning, or does he create a sword out of nothing and shoot to understand it? For example, I think that first boss appeared in a place like a bridge. Tarnished etc. he said. Who is this? What does it do? What's the deal with this? His face is like rabies, he hits with a big stick in one hand, hits with his tail, throws out an imaginary knife, hits with an imaginary sledgehammer, hits with an imaginary sword, but what is the place of this in that story? I watched a few videos and there are too many meaningless bosses. I don't think any of them are told about their story, because as I said, I played for 20 hours and I must have heard 30 sentences or something. The cat statue is the boss, the dragon is the boss, the big horse is the little boss, etc. Even the item names are meaningless. There was an item named something like "white pickled rabbit" :D I think the man who did it thought "let this boss have a tail, hmm this one has 30 hands, what should it be, sir? Let it shoot" and shook everything out of his head. Anyway, I guess people thought they would make up a story in their head. If there is a decent story, do I have to open it and look it up on the internet etc.? Tell me the story in the game. I would like to learn the story of the game in the game, not by asking uncle google, we are playing a game, after all, we are not doing thesis research, are we? The game world is full. Get out of there. If we don't see the game, we will eat it. Creatures wandering around aimlessly. Go around and kill. Is this the full world? There is no sign of a living world or the like. I played a total of 30 hours with other characters and I always played in the mind of "people have always loved this game, what do I not understand, I should love it too". But it's a very bad game. You're stuck on a hype. The game also got 96 points??? What does 96 points mean? It means everything has to be perfect. Performance issues alone should have prevented him from getting that score. No story, no enemy AI. If we look at the graph, it **** too. If other games had these problems, the whole game world would curse that game. But if you ask about this game, the answer is always the same "Souls games don't look for these" :D Don't look at the animation, don't look at the graphics, don't look at the story presentation, don't look at the optimization, what the hell are we looking for? Come to a boss, die 50 times to that boss, go back that way, memorize the moves of that boss and finally when you kill him, "oovaaaauuuvvv, this is the game, what a defeat, this is the pleasure of difficulty, yiaaa". The game is just that.
Game of Dekade,rallye! I love this game, indeed game of the year. I buy this game Digital and thatxwas right
A masterpiece. One of the best games i've ever played.Everything about that title is simply incredible
the scale of this game is just insane. also it became a bit less painful than souls games so its more pleasant to play. a masterpiece
Elden Ring is a beautiful, engaging and challenging experience. It's biggest downfall is the co-op play. The game was advertised as a co-op environment but its very limited. The multi player is very specific to areas, bosses and challenges, not open world like other games. it takes a few steps to get together with a friend and sometimes you don't even know if you can do something together until your at a spot when you need them. It's taken the fun out of the whole experience. I would recommend this game for single players only.
You don't have the right, O you don't have the right, O you don't have the right, O you don't have the right
This is one of the best games ever i would totally recommend to soulsbourne players and people who have never picked up a souls game
A crooked game, can't even remember the night, you have to constantly move yourself manually
I would really love to play this game but I live in Asia and I bought a copy and unfortunately it is region locked. It would be great if I could play it in my language, English.
About gameplay, lore and story it could be 10/10. BUT 25fps on PS5 ? Optimization is really bad anyway - that’s the only reason why I rate this game only as 9 points. Really good game.
This One of the best games I've played in along while !!!!!!!!!!! and prob one of the best souls games ever created from -fromsoft
ooooh! This was my first souls game. Actually incredible. The VASTNESS of this world, the detail and the challenge is incredible! A lot of bad reviews for this game are most likely from people who haven't explored every location this game has to offer! There is actually a TONE of detail/space and setting! Limegrave is a small part of this gigantic behemoth of a video game. This MIGHT possibly just be my new favourite game of all time...damn...
Some kids on here just don't understand this game. They want it to be Assassins Creed with quest markers, easy difficulty, boring drawn out dialogue and a cheaply written story shoved in your face all the time. Then they turn around and complain that Assassins Creed ****. Elden Ring is unique, it differs greatly from your stereotypical AAA open world game. It's also extremely large in many ways such as the shear number of bosses, rewards, abilities, weapons, playstyles, endings, enemy variety, and unique environments.
Seriously one of the most entertaining and deep games i have ever played. Ive been a big fan of skyrim since its release and this games has definitely topped it for me. Highly recommended!
**** and copy and paste! Its a disgrase for current gen consoles! Same **** graphics, same **** since Demon Souls! Nothing new, the whole game is outdated! Like i said, its just the same game, same as the CoD games, its just copy and paste!
This is my first from software game. I'm the kind of person who always puts the game on easy when prompted to. However I'm on my journey 3 currently and plan to get all the trophies for this game. I've never played a game that feels as rewarding as Elden Ring. The challenges of this game are worth overcoming. The lore and world are beautiful and fresh. The exploration and player builds make this game 10/10 alone.
This is the first Souls game I’ve played. It’s about as perfect as a game could be. I don’t like that I have to look up where to find a bunch of stuff. It’s a game, I’m not here to write a doctoral thesis on Elden Ring ffs. Please for the love of god add quest tracking.
Don't believe the poor reviews. Have played videogames for the last 20 years and in the last 10 this is the first game that has enchanted me so much that I feel like a child again. Does it have flaws? Yes, but it is a magical experience and a work of art deserving of a 10/10 score.
My final and brief opinion on Elden Ring: They were right on many things, they were wrong on many others as well. The first experience is incredibly memorable and the main bosses are amazing, the lore is nothing to talk about, although I think it's very similar to Dark Souls and lacks a bit of originality. The problem is that there comes a point, more precisely in the second half of the game, that it gets very repetitive, the optional bosses are very forgettable, the boss repetition is ridiculously annoying and the game balance is so unstable to the point that you are OP without nor make effort, ruining the Experience. The soundtrack is far inferior to past games, especially if we compare it to Dark Souls 3 and Bloodborne, you can count on your fingers which ones are really memorable and incredible. The exploration of the world itself is phenomenal and intuitive, it's really a revolution of the open world system, but unfortunately that's only true for the first time playing, making the game have very little replay factor, as you've already seen all the new exploration. In short, the game is amazing and extremely fun and addictive, it has a lot of successes but it also has a lot of flaws. For FromSoftware's first open world game, I'd say they are to be congratulated, they improved a lot from the other games, but honestly it could have been better. If they had more creativity and time, the game would be immensely more memorable and most of the game's serious flaws would be minimized. Overall, it's an unforgettable game on your first playthrough and it's really worth it, it's not quite a masterpiece as many have said, for me it's basically an open world Dark Souls 4, but it's worth the investment, especially nowadays where the market of Videogames only cares about money and quantity, while FromSoftware cares more about the artistic factor and quality in their games. Final rating: 8/10
Don’t listen to all these trashy reviews saying the game is terrible, this game is easily one of the best games to ever be made, the whole experience of a souls game is dying over and over because it’s supposed to be difficult, you’re just complaining that you couldn’t get past most things, and you’d just run away from them. This game has amazing gameplay and amazing graphics and all other goods, this is easily game of the year. I’ve beat the game several times myself and I haven’t found boredom yet, it’s just combat on combat, and if you’re reading this saying “oh all you do is go around on your horse all the time there isn’t any combat” that’s just because you’re too scared to lose to the enemies, they’re everywhere and you can find combat almost every place you go. Easy 10/10 my favorite game.
Truly one of the best game experiences i ever had, a combat sistem that aged well with a lot of new additions make it keep even freshier and more fun them past games with a worldbuilding and design just out of this world deffinitly i loved every moment of my 110 hours playtrhougth and i still so excited to explore more and more of things that i may have left behind, it is just a unforgetable thing to play this game
What defines a true open world, a next gen open world, a creative open world you might ask? this game will do all that talking for you the more you play it. It is not your generic open world with objectives to go here or there, this game will let you do you however you want when you want! No one is forcing on you anything here just dive into the world and enjoy its masterpiece of story telling quest lines, and main which is truly one of the best storylines in videogame history and well ofcourse written by the legendary author himself Geroge RR Martin. Everything is just a masterpiece in this game! and heck those 92 hours ive put in flew quickly! and there is still so much more to do and im in love with this game! As a long time souls fanboy and especially a Massive fan of Miyazaki games, this is what i have been waiting for and i cant wait fo the next game Miyazaki pulls of. And for the DLC thats to come in elden ring, and yes! there are sidequests and even after the main campaign (depending on your ending) that do open a door for dlc and more to come in the world of elden ring.
Made an account to say that this is the best game I have played in a very long time.
Not a Fromsoft fan but wanted to give this a try due to the hype. This game does some things really well and I have been enjoying it for the most part. The open world is beautiful and a joy to explore. Wonderful character/environment design. Hands down the best I've ever **** Stat upgrading in an RPG is a big thing for me and I think the whole( dying you lose runes and you need runes to upgrade) needs to go! Some of the boss battles are WAY too difficult! Stop making battles for only hardcore souls fans to continue the game. Either that or put a difficulty selection in the menu. Lastly ummm how about some story telling please. This was pretty sad. Quest/story developers were pretty much not there. Had no clue where to go next for main story or npc side quests.(don't give me this you just have to look garbage) It just seemed lazy. This easily could have been one of my favorites of all time and converted a non souls **** it didn't. Its lack of story telling/direction and pandering to only one type of player simply was not good.
Elden Ring (10/10 Masterpiece): The perfect game for a Souls Borne fan. Elden Ring delivered exactly what I was looking for in a new IP open world Souls Borne game. An interesting story, a great setting, and most importantly, kick ass combat. Souls Borne combat has never been better with a massive amount of build variety and varying combat options with the addition of horseback battle, spirit ash summons, and weapon arts. The game is absolutely massive with hours and hours of interesting exploration and punishing but fair boss battles. In terms of critiques, Elden Ring does suffer from a large, unexpected difficulty spike in the last couple areas and multiple repeat bosses, but these minor gripes pale in comparison to the sheer amount of content and hours of fun offered in this game. My most memorable moment has to be finally pushing through an extremely difficult optional boss’s health pool only to discover an equally punishing second phase. This is one of the best games I have ever played and one of the few that I had a hard time putting down to get some needed sleep.
It's pretty easy and I had no problems finishing it within a weekend. I think FromSoft really reduced the difficulty in comparison to their previous games, sad. :/
Co-op is krap. Bought to play with friends. Co-op is a lie. Going to be refunding the game..
Best game i have ever experienced ! Worth every dollar. The grinding and the beautiful graphics feel on another level!!
Some of the complaints from "Souls veterans" can be easily debunked. The graphics are maybe a 7/10 at best but the way FromSoft displays their art style that's been developed over the years, in this colossal world, really shines brightly. I found myself stopping at times looking around at the gorgeous view especially on top of large cliffs or mountains. The time of day changes can create different shots as well. The open world in Elden Ring is done better than most open world games today. That's what's considered "Revolutionary". They kept the souls-like feel despite going open-world which is more than what most game devs are able to do with their games when going in that direction. The way they reuse assets in this game is done properly. The world isn't littered with garbage and utterly useless items making the game feel repetitive (*cough cough Ubisoft games). Some of the bosses you fight early in the game become tough regular enemies later in the game making you as the player feel stronger and accomplished with the knowledge of how to defeat such enemies. The catacombs/dungeons are structured in a way that feel the same but each have their own set of enemies, traps, secrets, rewards and items. There's a reason to go into a specific dungeon because you may want that talisman, weapon, or ash. The recycling of assets in Elden Ring is done in a way that other developers should look at as an example of how to make a game feel fresh for 100 hours. The only other game that has done this well that I've played is Batman Arkham Knight I wouldn't call the combat boring in any way even if you've been playing Souls games from the beginning. I mean, maybe you're just bored of it? I'm not a souls veteran by any means but I have played Souls 1, Sekiro and now this game. There is a clear difference in scale and choices in Elden Ring. The amount of different builds you can design lets the player choose from literally 50+ options of how to play the game. You can look up builds on youtube as there are many literally just making builds for this game. I think this was FromSoft's way of adding more variety but it may have also added an "easy mode" as there are some builds/weapons that are considered by the community OP and an easy way of running through Elden Ring. (ie. Moonveil, Magic, etc) Overall, I highly recommend this game to any gamer. It is still difficult compared to your average RPG but will be worth the time and effort if you stick through it.
It's funny how most of the negative votes are for graphical issues, for an empty open world, and for its poor narrative level, something that is completely true. But FromSoftware has never stood out for the technical section, and has never pretended to, its beauty lies in the artistic and sound section, where it excels above any video game saga. Nor has it ever tried to tell its stories through dialogues, its lore resides in the objects you find and in the small conversations you find through its world with different characters, a different way of telling its stories that it has been doing since its beginnings, why would anyone expect that to change now? It's absurd. It's funny how in this way it manages to catch me and wrap me in the deep need to learn more about its lore, however in the rest of video games where there are hundreds of dialogues and cinematics they get me to disconnect automatically from the conversation, losing interest in its story. Finally, people expected to find a living open world, in the style of RDR2, Horizon FW or Zelda BOW, but they already made it clear repeatedly that it would be something very simple, something similar to Shadows of the Colossus, simply an interconnected open world, nothing more. I hope FromSoftware will never change their way of developing videogames, because once again, they have created a masterpiece
This is simply the best game I've ever played. A true masterpiece!! This game deserves a full 10/10. I love it!
Boring and repetitive. The story is non-existent, and the sound track is non-existent.
A beautiful and amazingly designed masterpiece. The open world looks absolutely stunning and is just filled with exciting stuff to do. The legacy dungeons are some of the best designed levels in gaming and the bosses are consistently great and easily reach the high standard set by the previous games.
FromSoft more concerned with if single players playing a single player game was too powerful and would rather destroy 80 hours of playtime to build a character for them to decide for me im playing wrong, so instead of fixing bugs and issues, they decided to "fix" weapons and destroy peoples builds.
20 hours of boredom before stopping. No story, nothing that makes you want to go see what's behind. Not to mention orders from another time. Hype is overrated.
What’s to like about this garbage? Just grind and grind and grind for what? It’s not even enjoyable. Seriously.
First things first, this is Dark Souls. Not Dark Souls in the way Bloodborne and Sekiro are, where they change up key gameplay elements to keep the game fresh, Elden Ring when not on a horse is just Dark Souls. I've always found that Froms gameplay evolutions in both Bloodborne and Sekiro (although I never completed Sekiro) were a lot more fun to play. They still had that challenge of Dark Souls but were just a bit more focused making the challenge a bit more amped up and harder to cheese. That said Dark Souls gameplay its still good, just not as good as other From gameplay systems for me. So let's take on the new elements. Chiefly the open world, it took me a while to appreciate it but it is very dense and has some really fun exploration. Although I really did miss the intricate, interconnected, world designs of older games. For much of the game it's a decent souls game, but when you reach end game bosses be prepared for some really boring fights. Souls bosses have often played by a rule set, like you they can't spam moves and magic because they would get tired or run out of mana. That is long gone in Elden Ring so be prepared to dodge infinite combos and magic coming your way until you get lucky and gap opens up to get in a hit and then back to rolling and dodging again. I didn't get a sense of satisfaction for beating any of the later game bosses, just merely relief. The game collapses here, where as the build up was souls with some decent exploration this end game is designed for only certain builds, If you roll a melee build be prepared for a boring/frustrating experience. I also don't find the lore as engaging as other From games, Demon Souls was this gothic bleak dead world and that spilled into Dark Souls that refined it, Bloodborne was an eldritch horror within a victorian city gone mad, Sekiro had an almost mystical vibe to it. Elden Ring is kind of meh, it's pretty in places and there are some awesome views but overall it failed to capture me quite as much as prior titles. None of these things are really bad, and are likely more down to my preferences really, but one things that is truly bad is the performance. foliage textures pop in about 20 feet in front of you, the frame rate shakes like a bobblehead on a washing machine during an earthquake, and a lot of the textures are pretty basic. Elden Ring has some great moments from it's art design, but as a technical piece its lacking considerably. (Played on PS5) I'm probably being a bit harsh on Elden Ring, it is a good game still, but I just preferred From's other games, and my fond memories of those titles just kept reminding me how I vastly preferred their tight interconnected faster paced games vs this slower, wider, rather loose one.
Elden Ring has one of the best stories I've seen in decades, like a dream come true for both Game of Thrones fans and Soulbourne game fans. If you enjoy old-school gaming like NES, Genesis, and SNES, Elden Ring is like those games on those old gaming systems, for example: 1. No difficulty setting. 2. You need to talk to other players to gain information about hidden treasures. 3. If you can't get through a stage, keep practicing until you get good at it. 4. Piss you off just the right amount so you will keep trying and have fun with it. 5. Not much hint was given to you, just explore and be amazed by every encounter. This game reminds me just how fun it is to be playing video games, a must-play for every video game lover.
I am an expat in China. I want to play the game in English. Unfortunately its only supporting Asian ****'s crazy, you can't change to language to English. I ask PlayStation store to return the game an refund my money. It's ridiculous. I am a gamer for a decade and never seen such a thing.
This game is awesome. IMO starts out a little slow but once you get to exploring and get decent gear it really takes off. It's like Dark Souls 4 and Skyrim had a baby. Very dense and quite refined and polished. Easy to get lost and off the beaten path and that's one of its best assets
I’m more baffled at these folks, giving poor rating due to the game being “to souls like” and “difficulty”. Look folks, this game ain’t for the meek, crawl back to COD or GTA, because this is a game for the Real. The fact that your angry at the proven formula that the fan base loves, is enough of an indicator that your in the wrong place. I say this with love, the game will have imperfections here and there, but at least they didn’t say **** you” to the fan base, like naughty dawg did with the last of us II.
After such a long time with terrible gimmick games, to get a gem like this is certainly something to be celebrated. About the game? You're in the know, right?
Amazing open world so much to discovered. The boss fights are amazing, there is a lot to love.
Incredibly vast, deep and beautiful - which lends into some positives and negatives: - you'll see reused bosses a lot - can't properly reward each encounter leading to ignoring important items while fighting hard to gain garbage - googling is a must if you want to find something or follow a particular quest - unless you cover every each of each area perfectly, you'll retrek a lot and there are some hidden walls you need to bash - graphics are a treat, level design and artistic vision is extreme and well worth praising - strength builds are punished while DEX and Magic are hugely rewarded tl;dr: superb game if you have 2 months to spare, a massive chore if you have below that time
A true masterpiece! Only decades of time, talent and experience could make such an amazing game.
Easily the best From Software Title to date, I'm a long time fan and was already lowering my expectations before release, only for the game to exceed every possible expectation I think anybody could have. I've heard some criticism over the second half, and the repetition of enemies, but personally I think it boils down to how large the world is and there being not enough things to fill it with. Plus, if there was a new enemy every corner, I doubt my brain could remember every one of their move sets and what to do.
I enjoyed it for the most part but there are several things that let it down. 1. The framerate is not good on PS5 and it gets worse in certain areas. 2. A lot of copy and paste dungeons similar to Dragon Age 2. 3. The game runs out of steam after 70 or so hours and just throws empty areas and annoying enemies at you. In Conclusion, this is the Dragon Age 2 of 'Souls' games. It's fun at times and is not a bad game but it maybe needed a bit more refinement.
This game keeps freezing so it unplayable I give up I'm 25 hours in but its so broken From Soft can even fix this problem many many people have since launch. I`m very disappointed in the poor quality of the game its not working on PC at all They have had over a month to fix this but cant be bothered Its Dark souls but bigger and it doesn't work weird unbalanced shoddy mess with nice combat no story runs like ****
As a Bloodborne fan (With a platinum trophy) and Soulslike fan (Played Sekiro, Lords of the fallen, Dark sousl 1, 2, 3, Demons Souls...) I can say that my hype for Elden Ring was too high. When i play the game for the first time, it was nothing as i expected, the graphics are meh (in the ps5), the framerate wasnt a consistent 60fps; the "open-world souslike game of the dreams" was nothing more than an outdated graphics game with an easy dificulty (when compared to bloodborne for example) and with a lot of bugs and framerate drops. The game is fun, the world is massive and you have a lot to do, a lot of weapons and settups, but something in this game deoesnt touch my hearth :( .... sad, thst is al. I am here, saying that with my broken-hearth and more than 100 hours of gameplay.
Elden Ring is a game that allows a much wider accessibility than the dark souls saga.
What more could I possibly want out of a challenging fantasy game? This game led to my favorite gaming moment of my adult life. My college roommate drove in from out of town, we both took the day off of work, and we set up two TVs in my living room and spent all of release day playing Elden Ring. I will never forget Exploring Limgrave with nothing but awe and excitement. I already put 80hrs into getting the Platinum on my first playthrough. This game clearly isn't for everyone, but to me, it is a masterpiece. Thank you Miyazaki, George RR Martin, and the whole From Software team. You can tell how much love and care was put into every detail of this game. No notes. 10/10
Just amazing. The world is vast and dense. The character progression options dwarf any other game on the market. The combat options dwarf any other game on the market. The performance is rock solid on my PS5. The graphics, while not cutting edge, are adequate, and most importantly maintain a near solid 60 fps. The only downside for some is that this is a Fromsoft and the combat is punishing and requires patience and the willingness to learn. Two real world character traits that seem rare in 2022. The negative reviews strike me a coming from two groups of people. Group one is neophytes expecting another Skyrim. Group two is Dark Souls hardcore fans who want another Dark Souls. There not complaining about the execution of Elden Ring. They're complaining that Elden Ring is not a different game. Fair enough. If you are on the fence, check out the review by Skill-Up.
The game looks like garbage with slow, clunky animations and boring fights coming down to exacting button presses and punishing mechanics, making you wonder who cares this much about getting gud, it’s not even fun. Worst of all is this **** series influence on a wide range of other series and developers ruining the experience. Keep ugly souls combat out of my final fantasy, platinum games and other jrpg releases you trash hawkers
I really have been enjoying this game. I’ve put about 60 hours in and there is still much left to discover. The story is intriguing, combat is engaging and the soundtrack is wonderful. My only gripe is… the platforming is terrible and frustrating.
One of the best games I've ever played. Game needs some balancing though, but I'm sure they rebalance lots of stuff in upcoming patches.
With Bloodborne one of the best game in the series, mix of everything what was best from previous series and content for days!
I was very excited for this game. I’ve been waiting since it was announced back in 2019. So after paying the sixty dollar price you can imagine my disappointment, when I found out that an integral piece of gameplay was missing. Most of the game was alright however all throughout we never saw the tarnish eat. This is unrealistic as you obviously can guess. Real people need to eat so obviously this a big plot hole. Until this is fixed I suggest not purchasing.
:DDD Those negative hate comments from ppl that never played a hard soul game before :D cringy as$ fckers jeez go buy some ball$ in ubisoft or ea shop so u can get better :DD love this game i played 180hrs+ and its amazing still amazes me and surprises me like crazy :) graphics are awesome new horse technic is amazing / jumping is great finally added :D open world is gigantic and 11/10 :) amazing quests and side quests / weapons / zones / dungs just best souls game we ever get
A complete masterpiece visuals art direction gameplay music everything about this game is completely mesmerizing
I am totally blown away. This is a game that just keeps on giving. May possibly be the best game I've ever played.
Demon souls in huge open world. Loved it. Think it should be 9.5 but due to lack of fractals 10 is more deserving. Things that should be improved in my opinion to make it perfect. 1. Performance optimization can be better. However I did not mind ps5 performance mode, it was good enough. 2.Better side quest tracking system. Game is long and you often miss key items for questlines that while optional are big and interesting areas... so at a point you go and google how to get there... which is annoying. While it has fun element to pick hints around I think it should still be easier to remember them... Feel like 99% people end up googling this at a point, think that is a problem... 3. Do something with amount of bosses, especially those that sometimes appear as regular enemy sometimes as boss ? Wtf is it regular enemy or boss.... feels like we got bit lazy at a point and started reusing enemies for bosses or bosses for enemies...
Truly a masterpiece! After 180+ hours, on the third playthrough, I still cannot let go of the Lands Between, still discovering new areas, lore pieces, trying new challenges… First, time I am feeling a game again in such a way since Ocarina of Time back in the day. Very likely the best game ever made and will be for a long while.
The game is fantastic but hard at the same time. Bosses repeat and also hard bosses duplicate which destroy good impressions. I have passed the hardest boss in "Dark Souls I" named "Ornstein and Smough" just in two tries. The same thing happened in other Souls games, even if they were hard they were still fair. However in Elden Ring, bosses are too aggressive and I still haven't beaten them after 50-60 tries which got me bored.
Simply put, one of the best games ever made. The few hiccups regarding performance are overwhelmed by the sheer amount of meaningful content and the never before seen scope of this game. There aren't enough words to describe the amount of engaging things to do in Elden Ring, with an ever-present depth regarding lore and attention to detail. The biggest proof of this is the amount of people complaining they don't know what to do in the game, but that is the whole point; you're allowed real freedom to explore and trail your own path. Anywhere you go there will be a rewarding experience, a thoughtful story, a useful item down the road. All in all, if you enjoy exploring a huge map full of rich content, whilst playing a game with challenging but rewarding combat, this one is for you.
This is my first review on meta because I just couldn’t believe the “0” ratings people were giving this masterpiece - yes masterpiece. Ok, I’ve heard about the “controversy” but I’ve completely ignored it and bought the game to see if it was actually good. I’ve been playing games since the 1980’s and this game stunned me. The first 30 min I was awed by the beauty and world design but fairly confused. I died some hundred times in the first hour or two. But as I got the hang of it and continued to explore I felt that childhood sense of wonder I haven’t experienced in a game for years and years. It just kept giving and giving - new terrifying creatures and gorgeous endless landscapes that kept unrolling as I went on. The sheer size of the world is mind boggling and beyond satisfying knowing you’ll never really get to explore everything. It makes it feel so exciting that you struggle to know where the world actually ends. But apart from the appealing open world, the actual gameplay is just a blast. Every enemy is a new boss to figure out and it never gets old finding creative ways to hack your way through a mob of baddies. I love trying out weapons and magic even when it gets overwhelming. It’s so amazing to get to play a game that gives me “Shadow of the Colossus” meets “Breath of the Wild” vibes. I haven’t been this addicted to a game since I was a kid. Anyone dogging this game either hasn’t really given it a chance, is a shill for some other company, or **** at gaming and isn’t interested in getting better. Get it - you will not regret it.
Can't play this game because Sony don't made Kazakhstan region in Playstation network and my country forced to use Russia region.
With over 70 hours of gameplay and one step away from finishing it, I think it's one of the best exploration and role-playing games I've ever played. I recommend it to anyone who likes constant challenges and overcoming overwhelming enemies.
Would have been the best game I’ve ever played! But by now I should easily have been on level 100 by now but thanks to losing your runes after you die makes it dam impossible to level up! Sick and tired of losing runes! Sick and tired of losing all my runes when attempting to retrieve my runes for only some enemy to come kill me. I’ve lost probably 1,000,000 runes all together from over 30 hours game play! Sick of it! Sick sick sick sick!! If they kept everything as it is but we don’t lose our runes would have been perfect. Scam game made for unemployed people who have so much time so they can grind all day long just to level up.
I have never played a From Software game before but I gave this one a try since I heard it's more accessible thanks to the open world. Now I have putten over 100h into this game and have done almost everything in this game. Amazing game
The game is really good but there is a major problem I have with is that without glitches and rune farms its takes so long to level up and finish the game. When progressing in the game bosses and enemies get a lot stronger and don’t even let me start with health bar lower than a eagle at the start of the game. I wouldn’t have a problem if levelling up was effective and didn’t actually need to go up to 100 to be able to fight a mid game boss. I spent 35 hours in the game just to reach level 50 no rune farms or glitches I couldn’t even if i wanted to cause the game punished me so hard by accidentally hitting the NPC at the start of game (white face). So I eventually got bored of the game because i either had to watch YouTube videos on how to defeat bosses on lower level or how to make my weapons stronger. And trust me it gets old pretty fast. No wonder almost all the players do rune farms and glitches it shows there is clearly something missing from the game everyone wants to finish the game in like 50 hours or something but you can’t even finish it after 100 hours if you not doing any glitch or rune farm. And thats what I call a waste of time.
Of all the soulses, this is the best that can be released, I consider the game a breakthrough. Passed three times, 220 hours spent! There are only one advantages from the open world. Thank you for this masterpiece.
What i don't really get about all these low ratings here is how someone can buy a soulslike and complain about it's soulslike-style. Elden Ring is a soulslike in an open world. And while this is its biggest strength it seems to turn out as its achilles heel as well. 90% of users rating low argue like they expected the next epic, narration driven mainstream role-play-opera with accessible gameplay, an average or at least scalable difficulty and a somewhat cinematic approach to quests and storytelling. So maybe the real problem with Elden Ring is the extreme hype, making more casual gamers buy it for all the wrong reasons and certainly with the wrong expectations. And this is what lead to disappointment and absurdly emotional and negative reviews. However from an objective point of view a nine or ten is a thousand times more justified than any kind of review bombing. At least if you are up to a highly rewarding challenge and a pretty unique approach to open world gaming, giving you tons of options and challenges without holding your hand all the time. Or if you like well executed game mechanics, masterful artwork and: stunning visuals that are not outdated at all. If you're not, simply let it be. But don't write these absurd reviews **** does not meet all the cheesy expectations it was never intended to meet.
The best game since Witcher 3. Maybe the best game ever. 100 hours played and still many things left to discover. The world building is brilliant.
The Worst game ever made by From Software, the details lack polishing, a step backward in all aspects compared to the previous work. If you want play a From Software's game, Elden Ring is the least worthwhile work to play.
epitome of souls series experience mixed into one masterpiece, although there are problems with the combat, the exploration experience itself worth a 10/10
I never buy a game without thoroughly investigating said title by reading and watching reviews from people I trust in these kind of things. And so it came to be that I bought Elden Ring, I have always wanted to play these games (souls) as their asthetics and atmosphere are of awesome levels but alas, I was never "gud" enough. But Elden Ring does what I thought could not be done, preserving those soulcrushing boss encounters, holding on to a general gameplaying that always asks "are you awake?" (else you pay for it instantly) and giving both selfhurting veterans and green privates like me a chance to experience this insane world of epic proportions. If a boss crushes you in a second, just walk in another direction and find strenght (and better weapons) and then return to crush him/her later! The open world structure of Elden Ring is truly well designed in a big array of ways, all from its core mechanic of classical soulsgame where you loose your mainresource with death which drives you forward to fullfilling your objects no matter how hard it may be. The world is also encouraging you to explore on your own, with your own eyes, instead of following a trail of glitter (no names mentioned). Rewarding exploration and hardship. One thing I truly love about the hardships of ER open world is that after numerous number of deaths and fails, you come out as this monster of a warrior, just traversing all of these enteties trying to kill you with ease, as the game has teached you (the hard way) how all of these works and fails. So in the end, even though everything is deadlly as hell, you can take it, because the game made you learn and evolve. The visual design is of the charts, it has been a long time since I got to behold such insanely great visuals/graphics, maybe not as resourceheavy as a cod-game, but top notch to the last fingertip. I have not encountered a single bug or glitch, nothing on the bad side. The game flows without framdrops or bugging out, cracy fast loading times.
Marry a rich man and get knocked up 10 times, then you'll have the manpower to work the fields when he leaves you for a supermodel who's still screwing her father, instead of wasting time on **** lore and 500 bosses all the same, you ****!
This is the ultimate version of Dark Souls thanks to its vast and gigantic open world.
Not enjoyable for me. Uninteresting story and lackluster graphics. Beautiful art direction though. If you like souls games you will like this for sure since it's the same as all previous ones
I've only put around 14 hours into the game but it's easily one of the best games I've ever played.
Absolute masterpiece ****. I understand not everyone has the same test but I have the feeling all the people giving it 5s are just doing it to be edgy. The main issues are bad optimization and perhpas high endgame difficulty, the world is well crafted, full of life, some of the dungeons can be repetitive (the optional catacombs) but they are still actually hand crafted. Despite what others may say.
The world is the most rewarding and spectacular with juicy rewards that proved 10/10. Graphically it's not great, but it makes up for it by far with a beautiful, unique and incomparable artistic section. Playable mind is the evolution of ds3, if you like that style this is your game, I think that among current games it is the one that best carries it. His story, as always, is divided by reading items, actions, and scenarios, which will make more than one person not understand most of what is happening if he does not pay attention to detail. Soundtrack as always 10. It has no dubbing. If you don't like souls, it's a good game to start, it's the easiest.
Bad graphics, janky gameplay, no story, probably the most overrated game since Halo 2.
Open world design brings down the general game quality. Insane amounts of recycled content, generally poor boss design, and a game world that leaves me with no desire to explore once I understand that everything I can possibly discover is just a rehash of something I've already seen before
Simply overrated. The graphics aren't all that. It's not welcoming to anyone who wasn't already in that "git good" group. Grinding out runes from YouTube advertised farms and following beaten paths only to have weapons nerfed? No. A game of the year should be good for everyone. This is meant for a select audience. Buyer beware!
In my opinion, Elden Ring has reinvented the RPG and open world genre. It has shown that single player and campaings matter and that they do in fact sell copies, contrary to what other developers have been pushing. It is a huge game, with amazing detail, it was properly tested, it was released with minimal amount of bugs and it has NO MICRO TRANSACTIONS. Elden Ring is the best game of last decade.
Probably the best souls like at the moment, THIS GAME IS AN ABSOLUTE MASTERPIECES! In my gameplay it lasted 80 hours, 80 hours of amazing designed boss, music, and everything else, the adrenaline and satisfaction after beating a boss solo are the best part for me, absolutely recommended!
Aprox 300h ingame this is by far an experience you must play and feel your emotions grow on your journey in The Lands Between. Still after 300h will admit I haven’t finished the main quests/storyline since you can explore and explore more area by area and I don’t know if you even can say that you can complete an area because this game is HUGE!
The game is just incredible, I like how hard the game is even though it has a few glitches
At first I was a bit lost playing this game even though I have enjoyed prior souls games before. This one felt overwhelming in scope. After a few hours I got in to the groove of exploring different areas and it became increasingly more enjoyable. The world is **** enemies are difficult. At no point do you have to feel stuck on a boss though. Just go elsewhere and get stronger. Then come back and try again.
Another amazing game made by FromSoftware. Ans you feel like you actually have a reason to do ng+, from some quests you may have missed to replaying margit with your favorite gear. The bosses and hidden items and vast inventory make the game what it is now — a truly great game.
First Souls like i've ever played and i love it. 90 hours in, its challenging, difficoult but fun to play and satisfyng. one of the best game ever for me
Not only game of the year - should be also the game of the era. Loving everything in it.
Basically the negative reviews of the game are about technical problems, obviously frame drops is a bad thing, but honestly almost every game i played on ps4 is 30 fps so I don't care about that, the game rarely drops below 28 fps, or practically never, I must say that I haven't finished the game yet, I have about 50 hours on it, but even so I think most games these days would be finished or at least would be close to it with 50 hours of gameplay, my only complaint so far is that a boss bugged like 4 times and I had to reopen the game a few times, PvP never pleased me in any of the FS games either, always laggy, but I don't focus on PvP in this game so it kind of doesn't matter graphics were clearly never FS' strong point, and everyone knows that, but on a more artistic level, the game for me is perfect, it's like I'm inside a beautiful painting In short, I do think that technical issues should be fixed (for platforms that may need it, of course) but I think that as a Souls game, it perfectly fulfills its role and it's simply the pinnacle of the genre so far, it's worth it.
genius game but the **** battle design is all **** **** and it is so easy without the **** silly game design of Miyazaki Hidetaka
The best game of all time ? Yes maybe :) I am waiting for the DLC :D But i love anyways all FS games
Game of the Year, maybe even the decade! The world is enormous and keeps getting bigger and bigger every time you think you've got a handle on the world size. You are always challenged but always rewarded accordingly, curiosity is always rewarded. Gameplay is rewarding because of how challenging it is, there is an argument the game is too hard, unfortunately the level of reward you feel playing the game is linked directly to the level of difficulty. Improvise, adapt, overcome and you will feel great.
Best game I've ever played. Only rivaled by RDR2! I cant get over how immense it truly is. 200 hours in and I'm no where near bored yet.
I'm a massive fan of FromSoftware games. Bloodborne is my favourite game. A masterpiece. It was a game that i bought a ps4 to play and the game didn't match my expectations... It surpassed them. Just writing this post just makes me want to play Bloodborne again. Elden Ring got me all hyped. I bought a ps5 to play it and I'm sorely disappointed by my experience. I'm 90 hours into the game and it's boring. It's (excuse the pun) a soulless experience. This game suffers from what Metal Gear Solid 5 suffered from. It just didn't need to be open world. FromSoftware excels in tight level design. This is their first stab at open world and it shows. You end up riding around a dull world looking for action only to be confronted with too many bosses, many of which are lazily recycled. I'd prefer a smaller world packed with danger around every corner and less but more unique enemies. FromSoftware fell into the trap for open world games that more is better. I bought this digitally so I'm really pushing myself to finish it but after 90 hours in struggling. And not due to the difficulty. The game doesn't reward the players time. Empty, barren worlds with crappy gifts at the end of a dungeon or mini boss isn't fun. Bloodborne **** all over this game. I've been playing FromSoftware games since demon soul's on ps3 and (excluding ds2 and sekiro) this is my biggest disappointment. Dark souls 2 gets a pass because the FromSoftware B team made it and sekiro was an entirely different game with a few overlapping mechanics. Elden Ring could've and should've been their magnum opus but instead ends up as just another bland and repetitive open world game. The only difference being that it has harder enemies compared to other triple A open world games.
I own all of the games in the SoulsBorne series and this one one of my favorites. So far I have spent around 80 hours and I am still surprised to find something new ever time I play. Highly recommended if you want a challenge!
I love this genre and Elden ring is the pinnacle. It’s not perfect but it’s certainty not dumpster fire.
My first FromSoftware game, but I've enjoyed it nonetheless. While certain parts of the game feel cruelly difficult, others feel more forgiving. Also, there's a character with a Brummy accent, which is a plus.
After playing 150 hours, I can say that i still have a lot to discover, the game play is really solid with a lot of different ways to confront any situation. Game play complex and with a lot of challenge. Amazing game!
One of the best open worlds I’ve played in a long time. The amount of builds and play styles you can come up with is outstanding. Everything in this world has a purpose and you can tackle it however you want. People might be turned off by the difficulty, let me just say this is my first souls game and the game is challenging but not enough to make me not want to play it. You can make the game easy if you want by getting overpowered gear and magic sorceries. Also there’s summons to help you with bosses. It’s up to you how you want to play it. There are tons of bosses that you can go after to get rewards to help you on your journey. From software(The Developers of this game) makes sure you are very well rewarded. If you are on the brink of getting the game, try it and give it some time. You‘lol get the hang of it and you’ll realize this is something special. One of the best games ever.
This game is simply a masterpiece, the best souls-like out there, one of the best open-world games ever made and the best game I played in my life. But the PC port is horrendous. If you can, play it on console.
I've played over 100hrs and I would say that I really enjoyed the game. There are lots of things to explore, weapons, bosses, dungeons and more. Finally an open world game without those stupid quests that you just walk around and talk to npc.
Its one of the best games ever The characters 8/10 The world10/10 The gameplay 10000/10000 The voice actors 9/10/ Alexander 10/10 The bosses 9/10 I had so much fun playing Elden ring Its in my top 5 games of all time . And if didn’t bought it yet Idk what you waiting for Buy it NOW ITS A MUST PLAY
I struggled at the start for about 5 hours but once got going oh wow possibly one of the greatest games ever made, amazing open world full of places to explore fantastic creature design great soundtrack and the combat is top notch, even if you dont like the souls formula give it a try hopefully the world grips u like it gripped me.
Exploration and playing with different builds are great but the bosses are horrendous. It's not a matter of a difficult and fair fight but bosses pushing endless combos and leaving very short windows open to get an attack just to have to deal with another round of endless combos.
Bought on the PS5 store, and no English language support included in Hong Kong? No mention of this on the store page. Unplayable for me.
This game is incredibly hard to rate. The things that are good about this game are not just good, they are absolutely fantastic. But the things that are bad about this game are not just bad, they are downright terrible. In past souls games, there was always a delicate balance of risk and reward, regardless of the way you chose to build your character. In this game, a solo melee build only presents risk without reward, while most other builds eliminate all risks and just hands you the "enemy felled" text to you on a silver platter. The game is simultaneously too hard and too easy, and it just feels weird. Kind of reminds me of ds2 in many ways
Elden Ring is amazing. To me, what makes it shine is the sense of mystery that stays fresh even after hours & hours of gameplay. I would compare it to Breath of the Wild, or the oldschool Elder Scrolls games of yore. The combat is also great and feels very visceral. It's fun to think of the perfect build, but ultimately it's an RPG and your character will gradually get more powerful over time. What really makes this game special is that every single area feels meticulously handcrafted, and you keep uncovering subtle game mechanics as the game goes on. Personally - I played it single-player without FAQing anything. I find the messages from other players to be more distracting than helpful. (Minor spoiler) My favorite moment thus far? Exploring the magic academy in Liurnia of the Lakes is gorgeous and surreal - I went down a strange elevator to be killed by a mechanical creature, and what?! Then you find yourself in a volcanic area for unknown reasons!
Like every souls game story are embedded throughout the world. You need to immerse yourself into the universe to appreciate the details of the the lore and the design from buildings to characters and conversations. The open world is well designed. Unlike other souls game where you entered a world from a hub, in elden ring you travel from place to place and experience the whole world. This game indeed deserves the goty and every game should try it out!
Utterly unplayable. Major headache due to floaty camera and horrible performance. Didn’t have any issues with previous fromsoftware games. Can’t refund due to ps digital.
Confusing writing, dead characters that flop around like ragdolls, meh graphics, and a near pointless map. You can play this game for hours and still not know what in the world is going on. Seems like it's just a grind fest for masochists and people who want to be thought of as "hardcore gamers". The Co-op feature is by far their biggest miss.
So this is probably my favorite ps5 game so far, the combat is solid, challenging but fair, the level design is nothing but superb, every inch of this world have dungeons, enemy groups, secret bosses and items that make it a charm to explore. Even if you don't like the souls game this might be worth to check out
Elden Ring is mediocre at best. The perfect reviews are misleading and terribly inaccurate. This game is far from perfect! Elden Ring at its core is not next generation gaming. The graphics are diluted and look more like the product of a PS3 console. Gameplay is weightless in its execution and twitchy at best. The bosses are cheap hitting powerhouses that take way more effort to kill than they should. Dying over and over again is not my idea of fun. This is coming from a guy that is on his 8'th playthrough with Bloodborne so I understand what difficulty should be like. There's a difference between hard and cheap! The UI in Elden Ring is counterintuitive and clunky. From Software can learn a thing or two about how to manage your inventory through games like Immortals Fenyx Rising, Horizon and Ghost of Tsushima. The only thing that Elden Ring has going for it is the sound. That's pretty much it. Never again will I buy into the hype like I did with Elden Ring. I'd refund the game if I could, but I can't. Do yourself a favor and don't buy into the hype like I did. If this is the direction of From Software with its future releases then it's going to be a hard pass for me.
if we ignore the repetition of bosses and enemies, this game is simply great. a great contender for the GOTY
A masterpiece. That’s all the describing I’ll do. This game does everything right. The only not so great thing was the pc release.
Amazing sense of adventure. Great combat. Fantastic role playing. Interesting lore and thrilling quests.
A game that will be discussed for years to come, this is the crowning achievement of FromSoft. A truly massive world, with depth in lore, characters, challenging fights, interesting and diverse weapons and character builds will keep players immersed for hundreds of hours. Absolutely fantastic work of art.
This game is so good. I'm giving it a 10. And I genuinely mean 10. The people rating this low must be from other game dev studios who can't produce quality games. This is definitely game of the year and most likely game of the decade. I wouldn't want anyone to miss out on this great game, because of people spamming absurd low review scores. They're most likely from people who rage quit, because they don't know how to play the game. This game has confirmed for that the only games I will play from now on are games like Nioh and the soulsbourne type games. Triple A studios have become a woke joke. I hope indie studios start making more games like Souls and Nioh.
Ultimate opus magnum of From Software. The best souls game and maybe the best game of 2022. I'm waiting for DLCs!
FromSoftware has done it again. Amazing game from one of the best developers in gaming. Game will not be for everyone, but it blew me away. Best game since Bloodborne for me.
Terribly balanced, exploration is barely worth doing. worst from software game by far
I honestly wish this travesty of a "game" never existed. Most people who have enjoyed open world games past 20 years know how boring and poorly made Elden Ring's open world is.
Thank god most people already stopped playing it, now all that's left is bunch of losers who whine about other games in Steam forums and try to act like Elden Ring was something great lol. Well good for you, but massive amount of gamers will disagree on that. Lots of people bought it, because of hype, hardly anyone finished it tho and that's says more than thousand words. Thankfully it will be completely forgotten in few months.
Less than 600 000 Steam players only ONE MONTH later. Thank god that these games will never become mainstream, i'm hyped for Hogwarts Legacy that will be true open world game, not empty and boring as Elden Ring is. Also i'm sure there will be lots of new announcements on E3 2022, so thankfully most gamers can still enjoy upcoming great video games and forget that these awful souls games ever existed.
I'm glad that most people seem to agree that this game is awful and doesn't innovate on pretty much anything. Taking away quest log is not innovation. Ubisoft made better games in 2012-2015 than this crap and Rockstar is still king of open world games. Elden Ring is an absolute joke compared to single-player mode of GTA 5.
Assassin's Creed does open world million times better and sales show that as well. Elden Ring will never reach AC level. Elden Ring fanboys will never understand what actually good storytelling and open world really means. All they want is mindless copy+paste boss battles, but thankfully these people are minority. Gaming would be absolutely worthless, if there were only Souls type games. Most people wouldn't even care about gaming. Thankfully there's still Assassin's Creed, Watch Dogs, Far Cry, Red Dead Redemption, Skyrim, GTA, Resident Evil and other great gaming series left for people who actually have some Taste in gaming.
Terrible graphics, terrible level design, terrible menus, no quest log, terrible clunky controls, terrible lock on system, terrible rewards, not an open world just a big empty map, no playing with friends, no interesting NPCs, no fun just stress, terrible waste of time and money. You need a piece of paper to take your own notes, or you will forget what is happening. If you want an example **** open world take notes from RDR2 or the Zelda games. Fan boys need to play something else to see where we are really at in 2022.. Stop claiming a ps3 caliber game is GOTY. You literally have to watch a video of someone else playing it to know where to go or what to do. I didn't buy a game to watch someone else play and spoil it all for me. BRUTAL. GIVING IT A ZERO BECAUSE OF THE OVER RATED 10s
One of users tell "please play the game before writing a review about it" . Thats a very true advice. However i couldnt play this game more than 2 hours. that wasnt because the game was hard. i have RTX 2070 on my tower , and i have 1080 p monitör. i couldnt get 60 fps continually. mostly it drops a lot. i wonder What kind of set-up is there for those who give high scores to the game?
Bets game ever, best open word map! Marry Ranni won’t you? Hard game to play, but enjoyable
Amazing game, I started off somewhat skeptical when I was first exploring the map thinking it was empty, but when I started really exploring I realised how much caves, dungeons and secrets are all hidden and waiting to be discovered. It takes the mechanics and gameplay of each from game and puts them all together and it works. Combat feels great especially when you start finding new arts of war, combined that with spells and the new mounted combat and jump attacks. It took me a slight adjustment period but I'm hooked. The world is huge and full of loot. The trademark atmosphere that's from soft games are known for is here which is impressive given the open world format. I'd highly recommend to anyone especially a fan of dark souls. Great universe and level design, creepy and interesting enemies and enemy encounters, exploration is rewarding and amazing and combat feels really good and very responsive. Maybe I'm gonna sound ludicrous, but as soon as I got to the open world (which happens pretty fast). Feels great! That sensation that there's is a vast world to explore and you don't know what you're going to find and how many times you're gonna get into trouble. This is a kust play gane for any Souls game lovers!!! Absolutely phenomenal. I think it's the freedom to get better and then come back to bosses when you are ready that attracts me. I have just walked out into the world, and wow, mind blown. Soulsborne games are not somethin u can get straight away and they mostly take patience, clearly everyone heard about the hype but didn’t bother to research. They have their own genre because they are niche, they were never meant for everyone. Any one who leaves a 1 star couldn’t get past the solider of godric in the tutorial or prolly didn’t even kno u had to jump down. Enjoy it at ur own pace, the thing that is great about these games is everyone enjoys them in different ways. And just anyone who respects beautiful games with heart and soul put into them. This game is exactly what i was craving!!! Love it. The story is very engaging and the battles are tough and take time to master like other soulsbourne games. FromSoftware has done it again. A must try game. Miyazaki went beyond anything the Elden Ring community imagined with this absolute masterpiece. He surpassed all expectations by bringing some of the most innovative of ideas, hence again revolutionising game design. ELDEN RING IS A TRUE MASTERPIECE! Tolga Özruh !
Elden Ring is too good to be explained. Literally i could go on for the entire alotted character length about how great it is. The gorgeous, wonderfully designed open world draws you in, rewards your exploration, and flat out drops your jaw! The characters and lore are so rich and well thought out, and the fact you have to go and discover it yourself to get the full picture makes finding out what and where and why such a wonderful revelation. Youll stop and just think, or stop and take in your surroundings, stop to just appreciate what a fantastic experience it is and the world you find yourself surrounded by. Finally a game delivers on the hype and over delivers in such a way it leaves me at a loss for a good explanation of how absolutely fantastic it is. Its like im playing a game im nostalgic for even though its brand new and fresh and right in front of me. For the first time in a long time i think about a game even when not playing, wanting to jump back in throughout the day. This game could be priced at triple what they sold it for and id be happy to pay it. I feel like i ripped the game company off this time
Elden Ring had the most influence on my life. I thought I could never sleep again with my late wife, but this game showed me that I was only too lazy to dig her grave. Best game ever!
i love how people are quick to reviewbombing a game, because they **** at it or it's better reviewed and loved then their favorite game. this game is a masterpiece. Sure still has flaws and so **** still a 10/10 because it gives soooo much. I have finished it 3 times and am on my 4th playtrough and still i find undiscovered secrets..there is no mBS microtransactions, no BS Seasonpass with cutout content. it's a love letter to gamers and is not trying to milk every penny out of them. its not handholding and treats you like an **** ****...with its flexibility you can make it as hard as you like. if you love good videogames don't miss **** bring alot of time
Thus, Bandai Namco Europe and FromSoftware have done everything right with "Elden Ring". The story can directly overpower you and keep you spellbound for hours. The beautiful environments and the pretty enemy types are also the highlight. In addition, the many possibilities with the characters and attack variants are convincing. In terms of gameplay, you get a damn heavy and challenging action role-playing game for the console and PC. In addition, further improvements and patches are planned. We can recommend "Elden Ring" to every brave gamer, and the experienced fans of the other games from FromSoftware should also grab it right away.
I don't know, but for me is it the best souls like game ever. I love the new cool bosses, I love the giant overworld, I love the npcs and I love the weapons and spells. I love this game.
Elden Ring is a very good video game. Lots do explore, many different ways to play, and the game refuses to treat you like a child (or prey on your parents’ wallet if you are). FromSoftware has done it again. Although it does feel a bit too much like Dark Souls 3, and not enough like Bloodborne or Sekiro (they could have added more from those two spin-offs to make this game feel less like Dark Souls 4.5 in my opinion), Elden Ring still shows that this dev team has learned plenty from all of their releases over the last decade.
One of the only games I'd call a perfect 10. Just wow. It feels like there is an endless amount of good content.
The best From Software game yet. If you like their style of games it’s a must have
This game is a masterpiece. If you like the soulsborne formula, this game delivers and more. I don’t know why people are saying it had performance issue, it worked perfect on my ps5. Game was fun and challenging. Minor complaint is reusing bosses but it isn’t enough to drop game to a 9. For all you reviewers bombing the game, grow up. Saying “I don’t like souls games, and this is a souls game so it still ****” is like me saying I hate the sport of soccer so fifa games must ****. It’s pointless to say. I wouldn’t play rock band if I hate music, so if you don’t like challenging, obscure stories games, don’t play this. Also, in a world of microtransactions and corporate greed, you need to appreciate this game. I paid $80 and spent nearly 150 hours on my first playthrough alone. That is refreshing. So many games force you to pay to win, or pay to get any sort of enjoyment on top of the initial purchase and this game is not like that. I will spend hundreds of hours for $80 CAD. There aren’t many games like that anymore so people should appreciate it. It’s so refreshing to not be bombarded with microtransactions. Thanks FromSoft
Peak of rpg games, there is no discussion if you downvote this game is only cause you play kids games
I give this game a 10 because it is the closest thing to "my perfect game" that I have ever played. I feel that this game further refines the game design formula that made the Souls games so amazing and then adapts it to an open world game, with resounding success. I loved the idea of an "open world Dark Souls" game, but it surpasses my expectations by leaps and bounds. Masterfully crafted world and lore, the best combat, move sets and magic of any "Souls game" so far, a wonderful sense of exploration and discovery... it's been a damn fun and compelling experience. I know I will be playing this game for years to come.
I think the press got carried away with the hype of the game. It is a good game but it has a VERY improvable performance. Apart from the fact that the dungeons are very repeated, apart from the fact that basic enemies or bosses are repeated more than I would like. If this is the level of the game of the year, this is going to be a fairly regular year
This game is really ****’s graphics are out dated and it is extremely hard.
From the bosses, to the world building and the excellent characters, Elden ring is a perfect execution of the FromSoftware formula, and I hope to see FromSoftware do more like this in the future.
Where to start? Fromsoft's beautifully made Souls-like is definitely impressive when it comes to sheer scale, and the world is awe striking, something many Western open-world RPGs often lack. The gameplay is similar to other Souls-likes: A near-religious commitment to realistic combat flow that requires one deploy their full arsenal of parries, dodges, and opportunistic strikes. It's this quality that has made Fromsoft's library so unique. But while Elden Ring offers the usual level of difficulty one would expect from Souls-like games, it also gives players a host of ways to cheese through its many difficult encounters. This comes from the ability to freely wander the entire open world right from the start. Players are able to traverse the lands and find weapons and armor that, while not totally eliminating the game's difficulty, make it much easier to advance. The game's steep learning curb make it semi-hostile to casual gamers. Anyone willing to learn ER's myriad mechanics, however, will adapt. Then comes the satisfaction of taking out a tough boss, after numerous tries, with only the skills you have available. This stick-carrot method to gameplay philosophy creates a satisfying experience. Now for the cons: As a more story oriented gamer, the obscure plot was somewhat impenetrable. This led to me sometimes wonder what I was doing and why I was doing it. Also, the post-modern bend, where every character you encounter tells the story in their own way, filtered through their own agendas, means that players are forced to not only imbibe the story being presented--they must piece it together themselves. This is an interesting design philosophy, and one that I believe is unique to video game storytelling. Nonetheless, finding a sweet spot between piecing the story together yourself and presenting a relatively consumable narrative should be Fromsoft's goal in future games to further mainstream success. There is, however, something to be said for game's that eschew mass market consumerism. Also, the world felt relatively dead. Because the setting is somewhat apocalyptic, I forgave the lack of town's, and the relatively low number of friendly NPCs. And about those npcs, can we get better writers next time? Absolutely none of the npcs in the game have any personality, and they all deliver their lines in the same awkward monotone. This is supposed to lend to the games dreary atmosphere, but it made the setting feel drab and boring, and that's unfortunate because ER is anything but. ER's world is beautiful and deadly. It would be better if it felt more lived in, too. All that said, this is a solid title. The game's design aesthetics feel very Japanese, and anyone who is into old Japanese action-adventure games, like Actraiser, will likely enjoy it. Fans of Souls-like games will, of course, love this edition to Fromsoft's canon. This game isn't for everyone, but if you're willing to learn its rhythm, this is a fantastic, massive (massive) game with tons of playability. An easy shoe-in for game of the year.
if you enjoy a fascinating open world full of secrets areas and mysteries to explore and don't get frustrated at dying constantly this game is for you. if you have no patience and need to be shown and given anything with minimal effort move on
One of my favorite games in recent memory with lots of freedom and variety in weapons and playstyles but the lack of optimization feel even worse than in PS4 which is my biggest complaint
Cannot customise all key bindings - for example Map is "G" and to get out of the map is "Q" - whaaaat? Bosses defy physics, quests cannot be tracked, many NPCs re-spawn after you rest., low AI npcs which do not react unless you're almost in their face, large relatively empty world. Its not a bad game, its just not amazing.
In some moment this game became so stuffy I opened a window. Big same-type location, too much copy-paste bosses, useless quests I missed, storyline.. what else storyline?)) Dark Souls III you was the best ever
The wait of years has been totally rewarded, Elden ring is a masterpiece. I hope all developers can get some inspiration on how to create an interesting and never dull ow.
This game was amazing. I lost myself in this GIANT world and I loved every minut of the 90 hours I spent in this game.
am like game not like demons souls more elden is world unluck is like this game because your noget stuck is primary boss your get world is explorer eucounter others bosses get lvl up is after die this boss
An absolute masterpiece. Brilliant boss designs, a wonderful open world and almost infinite combinations of equipment. More beginner-friendly than ever and still hard to beat. A recommendation to everyone.
What a shame that this has been bombed by users (with the vocabulary and attention span that one would expect when every person is allowed to simply create an account). Just to summarize the negative reviews in aggregate: graphics bad, open world too big, too difficult. The last of those points has been mentioned in every review of a Souls game since Demon's Souls and holds no more weight today than it did back then. This game is a masterclass of how to actually make an open-world. Instead of pointless "resources" your exploration is rewarded with hidden boss fights, entire new areas, and unique weapons and armor. I don't know if I could ever play another open world without comparing it to Elden Ring.
This was my first "soul" game. I picked the mage class like any other RPG game of this kind, and had the most boring game play ever. The game was fun and challenging in the first 20 hours, but after a few good upgrades from main story line, the game became straight up boring with repetitive grinds and no story exposure what so ever. I lost interest in wasting more time on this at around 50% progression and called it a day.
Amazing **** game us so immersive i some times just find myself riding on the horse for hours and never fails to feel less magical everytime
one of the best games of all time buy it only if you love challenging games
Game of the year material? Yes. Game of the year? Too soon to tell. But I'll tell you this, game of the year, Horizon is not. So it's cool if you think something else in the pipeline is gonna bring the heat, but let's just wait and see, aye?
The game gets bigger and bigger , the art style is great , the openworld the best i have ever seen since Skyrim , the fights and the gameplay is soo good . Eldenring GOTY 2022
The game is one of the best games that I’ve played and i played a lot of souls game but this one is different I enjoyed myself playing this game I really recommend this game for the hard core gamers out there
Based game, it makes the soys that only "plays" (((cinemtatic games))) seethe.
Elden Ring is a good game, make no mistake, but it's overhyped to the extreme. If you like Souls titles, you're going to enjoy it, but it does little to change the formula and suffers from a rushed second half. The talk of it being 'the greatest game of all time' is, in my view, quite silly.
Playing on the ps5 version of this game was slightly better than the ps4 but stuttering and pop in are still a big issue even on the ps5. Even then the core game play is so mediocre. And it pains me to say it but this game is easily the worst from software game I played to date. I was so hyped for this game after it's reveal and after playing dark souls 1 and 3, bloodborne, sekiro, and even deracine, I expected this game to be the best part of all them. But if anything, they just removed the best aspects of their previous games, from the beautiful levels that were handcrafted to near perfection, elden ring just doesn't have that. The open world of limgrave although stunning to look at first eventually devolves into bland empty grass fields with groups of brain dead ai scattered across. It's not even worth fighting them due to how little runes you get after clearing them. There's also dungeons that are about as pointless to explore due to how uninteresting it is to explore with the final boss at the end just being copy pasted from other areas, honestly i don't get what's so special about the open world at all, if anything it drastically ruins the flow of the game. There's also static npc's you could find stand around all day and night barely moving to just spout exposition at you while you're character just stands there when you talk them. The core combat is fine but it's just dark souls 3 again which after sekiro feels like a big step backwards. Edit: Nvm just beat it and honestly wasn't too bad
At first I liked this game. Graphics are good, but I believe From has gone down a bad road, starting with Sekiro. The From souls games were brilliant, and a lot of fun. Difficult, but enjoyable. I laughed a lot, and had fun with the coops and invasions. But this game has taken on a Nioh feel. Everything is one shot, and there is a kill switch, when you are in danger of killing a boss. I believe the pve is overpowered. Especially when you are trying to reach an important area to advance the game. I have had to respect my character two times to advance. This is not good game design. The Fire Giant is almost impossible. You can't finish the game without beating it. There is little help, and no mimic help. Why have a mimic when you can't use it in the most important areas of the game. The blood, and bleeding is way overpowered. Invaders can one shot you. There is very little defense against the most overused builds in the game. I got sick of fighting all the bosses with blood builds. I really wanted to give the game up. Now I played Nioh, and hated the game. I even platinumed both Nioh games. Has From gone so far to cheapen their games competing with the Nioh Team? I am not sure I am going to finish Elden Ring. They dumb down good weapons that let you complete with the overpowered and unfair bosses, but not the bosses. They need to look at the way people are struggling to get through. The NPC's that help are crap. I miss the good NPC's in DS2. One good thing, the horse. I loved it. The world is too big, and coop help is too scattered around the big world. The lines are interesting, but way to long. The Alexander Jar line is ridiculous. Anyway, if you decide to play, good luck! i wish From would go back to the winning ways of DS and Bloodborne.
OK.. i cant stand these review Bombs.. Elden ring is a CLASSIC, i don't normally review games but need to cover a couple things. because some of the garbage people are putting down is an UTTER SHAM.. A) Elden ring has Hundreds of hours of content.. it took me 160 hours and that got me about 70 % of the achievements.. Now i need to Dig for the other 30%.. most likely AT LEAST another 50 hours. there hasent been a game with so much content since RED dead Redemption 2 B)Elden Rings story is NOT forced down your throat. u have to EARN IT.. u Need to explore.. read item descriptions and talk to every NPC u meet MANY times.. all these people that say it has no story.. ARE LAZY.. or CAN'T READ... PERIOD C) Elden Ring has NO EASY MODE... the game is HARD.. invest some time and GIT GUD!! just cuz your terrible at it.. or dont wanna try... does NOT make the game a Zero out of TEN Bottom line.. this game is a CLASSIC and worth its 95 rating. people that say other wise are not objectively looking at it.. they are just mad cuz their computer cant run it.. or They are terrible at it.. once again.. in 2022 people are LAZY THIS IS THE GAME OF THE YEAR FOLKS, so sit down.. TRY... and GIT GUD.. Elden ring is a MASTERPIECE
I adore this game; it is probably FROMSOFTWARE's greatest game. The open world seems alive despite its size, the NPCs have meandering questlines, and the bosses keep me focused even after I've played for 100+ hours. I've completed the game once and am currently working on a second playing. If all of this remains true across several playthroughs, this may be my favorite game of all time.
Best game I have ever played, they don’t make games like this very often. Happy that I took the chance and play it
Mesmerising & immersive beyond compare. Lose yourself in a world that’s as awe-inspiringly beautiful as it is bleak & brutal. Brace yourself!
1st thing I will say is I'm NOT a Souls fan, don`t really like all the Previous games, Bloodborne was ok but not my cuppa tea. BUT THIS OMFG I was hooked from the get go, Yes it is Hard and has a steep learning curve but when it clicks it clicks, It took my 3rd Attempt to get into it but now I'm 70hrs in and loving it at level 136 (Astrologer) There is sooooooo much to see and do, Some areas are easier than others and if you find your struggling hit Rune Farming up on YouTube. I will keep coming back to this again and again as I always find something new each time I load up. The only reason I've given it a 9 and not a 10 is because the Path you need to take is a little confusing and can tend to end up in an area way to overpowered for your build. Other than that for £44.99 for the Launch Edition off Amazon it`s a steal.
Open world dark souls with a lot to offer. A lot of different unique bosses but some dungeon bosses are reskinned of some you've face before. Some weapons are quite overpowered really glad they patched some of it up. Exploration is fun and quite new to the soulsborne series. Some really great areas specially the areas underground. 1 story boss is incredibly stupid. Some spells are useless either they cost a lot of mana to use or the basic spells you've got the first time is just too good. Never encountered invasions of other players I'm not sure why. Probably one of the easiest soulsborne games to play and get started. tldr; it's good buy it lol. probably not as good as Sekiro or Bloodborne.
As someone who doesn't normally like Souls-like games, I enjoyed this - it's basically Breath of the Wild crossed with Dark Souls. This is a perfect example of how to do open world exploration properly, and unlike past Souls games this one is much easier to workaround if you get stuck on the difficulty. I take a point off though because the game makes exploring different kinds of builds far more difficult than it should be, especially using different weapons which really undermines the fun of finding the hundreds of crazy weapons hidden throughout the game.
You spend at least as much time looking things up online as you will playing the game.
Doesn't feel like a next gen or ps5 game. Definitely not for everyone and becomes repetitive so quickly
I downloaded from Thailand server and only the Chinese language is available. Please add English language to Asian version
Have not have any performance issues on PC, I expected to be hard dark souls game and i get one. I would say do not take advices from people, that cannot even use their toilet properly. Anyway, this game is great, Full RPG experience, open world. If you font know how the character builds work, and how the progress is made, than yes, this game is definitely not for you. Because otherwise you can easily create a really OP character, that breezes through like a knife butter. But you obviously buy RPG game to play it, not just to mash buttons.
Best open world there is! Such a good game! Beautiful environment! Insane boss fights! Can’t get any better!
I really enjoyed the game. I played on Ps4 and I have to say that there are some errors and that graphics are not that good but I think that there more valuable things from this game. I got the platinum trophy after more than 100 hours of gameplay and I'm starting a NG+, the overall experience of elden ring is simply marvelous.
They did it again, this game is amazing. The map is huge with a lot of things to do, there is always a challenge around, a boss, a puzzle, a sidequest. Totally recommended
ER is the best of From Software ever released. They learned from their experience and put together this masterpiece. Yes frame rate drop is occasionally annoying, but everything else is strong enough to call it a masterpiece and give it 10/10. It is a true definition of a “must-play” game.
Elden Ring is a massive challenging game yet it's not what I was waiting for to be honest. Game play : 9/10 but its 80% similar to DS3 with a few changes which makes you playing basically an open world DS3. Graphics: 5/10 it's a shame that a massive game like ER has this level of graphics on ps5 generation and there is no excuse for it . Art style : 10/10 fromsoftware artist are ones of the best in gaming world. Story : 7/10 World Exploration : 7/10
Elden Ring was created to waste a players time, in order to hide a complete lack of content. The ultimate no lifer game. I'm not sure why it's getting all this hype I made an account just to rate this game. I almost feel as if the game paid for these perfect reviews. Honestly very disappointed and hope people realize how overrated this game is.
If tomorrow morning I'll be getting a letter from Hogwarts saying they are sorry for the years of delay but I'm invited to the Hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry, and then I'll begin my years of education there, it will almost be the most magical experience of my life - second only to Elden Ring.
The best formula From Software has ever been achieved: learning from their old titles and creating a unique mix that a lot of other companies will try to imitate in the next years…. This game is a milestone
It. Is. A. Masterpiece. It's not just critics, it's streamers, influencers etc. I have put 200+ hours into this game since launch and I still feel an itch to go back and explore the Lands Between. It IS a Dark Souls game ultimately even if it's on a bigger scale, so yeah, if you don't like being challenged then it's not for you. But the people playing this game down (probably because it outshines whatever their favourite game is) either (A) Played it on kb&m, it was not designed for this. You need a controller or (B) Are not willing to "git gud". I see a lot of jealousy in the review bombing. Casuals need not apply, otherwise come and see the wonder.
unplayable on ps5!!!framrate dops are sick!!!hurts my eyes!!!i recomend to wait till they fix it
Awesome game, thank you fromsoftware! All best things from souls-games become even better, huge interesting open world.
Best open world game ever , although there are some problem still the game is one of the best games i have ever played
Brilliant, vast, rewarding. Whilst not perfect, it really is something different in terms of open world RPGs. The developers really did go hard on this one, personally I don't understand the hate
I Bought this game in Singapore via the Playstation Store. Because i used to live in Hong Kong, the game downloaded in Simplified Chinese and there is no way to change the language setting to English. I dont speak Chinese and as a result, i couldnt even get through the menues etc. My request for a refund has so far been ignored. Apparently this is a common issue for foriegn/expat users across Asia. Buyers beware.
While this game is immersive, and definitely holds true to the RPG genre very well, at times it feels hard just for the sake of being hard. The lack of quest log is frustrating, because if you walk away for a couple of days it’s possible to completely forget what you are doing. This Is my first introduction to these games, and I don’t foresee myself buying another.
What can i say,masterpiece, here is where boys and adults separate in gaming,be ready for a great challenge
Game is just flat out boring and tedious. I was making good progress- I just didn't have an ounce of fun. Everything is designed to be obscure, tedious, and annoying. At best the game is kinda pretty and just... tolerable.
A masterpiece of souls games. A work of art for those who are used to the games of the series and perfect if you want to start in the world of souls
I amazing experience to say the least it’s difficultly is one of its best parts
140h, platinum trophy, splendid! Outdated graphics? Who cares about graphics, when the game gives you that wonderful feeling of discoverer coupled with deep gameplay and atmosphere? The game doesn't think that player is stupid, it feels challenging when it needs to and gives you feeling of progression when it needs to. I really liked AC: Odessey early game feature of defining next objective location by myself using mountains, rivers, cities as reference points (before upgrading drone-eagle). All ER exploration is about that. No need to rush through main story. If you see something interesting far away, then you should check it out. If you found new interesting weapon, then you should try it. Same for spells, armor and talismans. The game isn't for everyone, but everyone should give it a try.
Simply a fantastic open world dark fantasy game. It deserves your time and attention!
Art style is incredible, gameplay is phenomenal, a new bar set by from soft.
So, i created an account here just so i can submit my score for this game. I was not a huge souls fan (played couple hours on souls and a little more on Bloodborne). It has been such a long time since i was invested that much in a game, and its the first time ever that i'm playing a new game+. I know graphics good be better (they are not bad in any case) and thats why this is a 9 and not a 10 for me. Everything else in the game looks perfect, open world is amazing, lore is awesome. I loved every minute of it (110 hours in atm)
First time writing a review here because this game deserves it. Amazing game. I'm new to the series so got destroyed a lot at the beginning. But give it time and you'll really appreciate it. Beautiful map, art design is insane, huge variety of enemies so you never get bored. Also, including coop makes it that much more fun playing with a mate. The customisation is awesome, everyone's build is unique. I'm constantly discovering new things and mechanics. Despite the story being hard to follow, it definitely draws you in and keeps you hungry to advance and see what is around the corner. I definitely recommend this to the new players. Killing bosses after numerous attempts is the most satisfying feeling that I cannot completely explain. 10/10
This game is cool in 2011 not today, in that case, is just a game so overrated!
It’s FromSoftware. Nothing new to see here. Likes: > Art Style > Lore > Depth of customization > Throttling of features / new mechanics to discover Dislikes: > Usual FS combat — Slow, with few inputs. Boss fights are a matter of memorization and trial/error. FS elitists will call it skill, but it’s no reflex test — all about memorizing hitboxes / what you can or cannot parry/block / understanding timing of dodge and lack of input cancelling > Do you like to play games by googling what to do at every step? This one is for you. Do you like to keep a journal to manually track your own quests — I’m glad someone’s providing that opportunity. I give it a 7 because the world they’ve built is beautiful, but if you’re like me the gameplay loop and dated engine will get old fast. Full disclosure: Beat a few bosses including Godrick pretty easily. Combat is hard unless you’re a souls vet or until you figure it out — then it goes from hard to boring. This is my opinion but I prefer combat extremes like the player agency provided through reflex-based action OR the calculated strategy availed by turn-based. FS is you observe and then strategize when you should utilize one of two options: “dodge or hit”. It’s just not for me, at least not as a solo experience.
Wonderfully crafted game, jaw dropping graphics and stellar storyline. This game will have long play and replayability. Hours and hours and hours will be spent in elden rings
Good game without a doubt. But Masterpiece? Just no. Constant frame-drops on the PS5. Camera could be a mini boss itself at times. The open world is really well designed, but graphics wise far below HFW and Demon's Souls. Lightning looks well most of the times. Texture pop-ins here and there. Performance hopefully gets patched soon. I get that the fanboyism is strong with Fromsoft, but these 10/10 reviews are just ridiculous.
Amazing open world that keeps amazing the player with its vastness, the RPG-elements and playstyle possibilities are incredibly moldable and fun. Biggest flaw being the spikiness of difficulty and some abilities/builds being over-/undertuned, but these problems could possibly be fixed by simple damage tuning of enemies and abilities. An incredible game that I can only recommend, especially if you're a fan of RPG and open world games.
Great game. Unique in its genre and atmosphere. It's a grand and totally finished and immersive game with a great degree of difficulty and steep learning curve. Loving it.
Biggest bang for your buck at 60 bucks maybe in the history of gaming. Challanging but fair for veterans of open world rpgs. Incredible enemy variety and so many ways to build your character. The only minor draw backs ive found are the camera/lock on feature are not the best and the game doesnt hold your hand to the point that you will miss cool and important things. It forces you to look up certain questlines and breaks immersion imo. However, its a must have for any rpg fan.
Its a masterpiece!! Outstanding!! Once in a lifetime game. Though BB was pioneer in terms of combat and game design, ER raises the bar so much that no game can even touch it.
very good game for all kind of gamer waiting new DLC and patch video performance need improve
I haven't played many games in the past few years. I wasn't motivated though I used to play every day when I was younger. But this game makes me looking forward to play again every day, when I am at work. I cant't really tell why, but for me this is the best game in years, even better than witcher 3. And kids, don't whine on the graphics. Art style is wonderful. All in all 10/10 points in my opinion.
Top Game Like always from Fromsoftware. Very Nice open world with enough to Explorer. Combat is perfect
I never really liked games like this but Elden ring has changed my opinion on dark souls games. Stat calm and G fuel recommended
Elden Ring is a totally average game. Don't believe the trolls and the toxic community talk. Many people consider From Software to be the originator of the Souls genre. It actually has its origins in Nihon Falcom. Therefore, according to them, Miyazaki is a messiah. However, Miyazaki and the Souls team is still making the same mistakes. Objective problems: -Hitboxes are not good. There are times when it reminds me of the DS2. -Boss designs are very unbalanced. They didn't really work well with many bosses. -The game gets too repetitive. Open world exploration is nice, but it gets boring quickly. -There seems to be a lot of items, but in the end, a few items are the most useful. The game forces you for make to broken builds. Because some boss designs require it. All builds look alike. For example, more than half of even PvP uses blood builds. -Optimization is still not fixed and every update is getting worse. -Spells are powerful. Playing spell builds are more advantageous in many ways. -Camera angles are not good. It really causes trouble. When the number of enemies is high, you cannot control field of view. -Lore quality is definitely a controversial topic. However, it has the same lore in other Souls games. Only their names have changed. George R. R. Martin is just PR work. -Enemies are just based on nonstop spawn attacks with endless stamina as like most of bosses. -Many of the bosses repeat themselves. Most bosses are either the same or reskin version. -The hit feeling is not good. Especially the bosses don't even react properly to your attacks. -It has a toxic and cancerous player base. -Artificial intelligence problems. A real disaster. -It is a headache for some attacks in the game to pass through objects. Conclusion: This game is not a masterpiece. Not on a new ip. It's just Dark Souls 4 with open world.
This is the best game I have ever played. There’s a whole adventure waiting for me every time I start this game. For those worried that you might die too many times: You basically don’t need to fight bosses. If you find them too hard, just explore the world until you level up enough to beat the boss easily.
I hate this game. Anything that takes progress away from you when you die is not my kind of game, add to that i find my friends grinding to bump up their runes so they don't lose them all and can make the next level. It's just tedious for me. Ruthless for the sake of it. I didn't even notice the prologue at the start, it's just ridculous. Guides i have read online say it is a good idea to have a pen and paper to remember stuff? F right off! That's not a game, that's a job! Playing Horizon Forbideen West i can turn on how much the game helps me, how hard the enemies are, how tanky i am and that is brilliant, i can make it stupidly hard or not. I don't want some other nerds idea **** game whether i like it or not, i want fun. This is a grindy death grind of bleak boring old gamey ness. People who like these games weird me the f out! And for the record i beawt Margit in the first day of playing it, i just hated every minute of it and sold it after that. It's not fun.
Zero microtransactions. £/$49.99 on release. Huge open world, scaling difficulty. Fantastic gameplay. Single player heaven. Multiplayer incorporated, genius in design, balanced, fun. Addictive gameplay loops, top grade high fantasy characters and npc's. Distinctly different character builds. Elaborate enemies. Secrets. Crafting. Intelligent level design. Balanced gameplay. Zero ego massaging. Intrigue, wonder, mysterious storyline. Sidequests galore. Tough but fair difficulty scaling. What the hell else do you want from a game ? Sony are you watching ? Gt7 is a disaster, this is how you make a game. Genre defining game 10/10
Elden ring Is a fantastic game I'd love to play constantly if I were not so busy. It's detailed story lines and open world concepts and seriously hard bosses are the best! I'm rating it an 8/10 as I have 2 problems to address. Summoning in the game even with passwords and connections are terribly slow and unreliable and secondly FromSoftware hasn't addressed a fix to this even when it has effected so many players Including myself from enjoying the game with a friend. I am currently at a difficult boss and needed a helping hand, what happened was an error "Unable To Summon Cooperator" that can be many issues such as Internet connection or location of summoning signs however I've been trying for roughly 3 hours and multiple attempts spanning days and yet again no mention from the company.
Captivating open world with something to do anywhere you go. The boss fights have great design features. They are very difficult however it’s an open world and the game encourages you to explore and level up to finally beat that boss. Incredible graphics. Some downsides are frame drops when loading into a world or getting attacked by a boss and no real directions really are present there with quest lines and how to find certain resources which lead to skipping them or looking up a video. But in the end it’s a phenomenal game.
It's so good, graphics, gameplay, I love everything about this game its just amazing.
Beautiful game, exquisite immersion on a vast beautifully crafted open world. Been playing around 30 hours and it's really a must play. even if you are new to From software games. This is not a 10 because of some FPS drops happening on PS5. No other issues, really the only one, but i think they must be addressed and corrected as soon as possible. This game may be a master piece...
I was hyped for the game, as was everyone else, and it did actually deliver. Everything in the game is polished to perfection, and I can only think of very few flaws, which are easily ignored. I agree that this might not be the game for everyone, but for a long-time souls players like myself, it's a realization of the dream we've always had to play a game that would perfect the formula laid out by Dark Souls. The majority of the criticism comes from new players whom imagined this game is the same as every generic open-world titles they've been playing for the past decade, only to realize it's entirely different the hard way. I don't blame them, the hype bandwagon was too strong. Now, onto the criticisms I have for the game: there are hardly any memorable soundtracks. Only exceptions I can think of are the Main Menu, Godskin Apostle, and the Dragonlord. I'm not saying they're not good - they're sometimes even better than what most other games offer - they're just not up to the standard of previous Fromsoftware titles. When it comes to NPCs, I always enjoyed how dreadful it felt to leave their conversation abruptly or without purchasing anything, whereby they'd proceed to badmouth you. They unfortunately removed this neat little occurrence from Elden Ring; this might just be my own personal preference. Bar the aforementioned criticisms, this game is perfection incarnate. I may be biased, but frankly I don't care.
the game was awesome and this hater says nonesense about it . elden ring deserve 11of10
Eh, I don't know what Kool Aid everyone's been drinking, but it clearly didn't work on me. This is an above-average open world game, but it isn't without its faults. Particularly notable are the repetitious use of dungeons and enemies that really start to wear on you during the second half of the game. The combat also is unrefined, with many bosses glitching out, one particular battle saw a formidable opponent getting stuck in a tree and spontaneously combusting. Moreover, as melee class, battle is entirely dependent on i-frames, there's a lack of responsiveness to the process of combat, that sees luck play more of a role than skill in that sense. Stranger of Paradise surprisingly does combat much better than this game. While I would recommend it, and I don't consider it too hard for the average player, I can't do so without at least acknowledging that it runs out of ideas in the later parts of the quest.
This is a game that is loves the smell of it’s own farts. It looks great but has poor design and problems that are passed off as difficulty. I get that the game is not for button mashers, but when not in combat there are countless times when button actions do not register. Even in non-boss encounters… this sets you up for boss battles whee your button presses are stacked. Your character will carry out those stacked actions if it’s the MOST important thing in the world, EVEN if you get hit. Also no good world orientation and very basic story
This is the ultimate souls game up to date with every old game mechanic refined to its best plus many new features. 100000/10
Masterpiece ****. So much content to do it can leave you playing this game for months.
Elden ring is a love letter to Fromsoft and souls fans. It's combat is addicting. Vast amount of choice to play how you want with tons of weapons, spells and items. While new players may struggle to get to grips with the difficulty. They do offer so many things to aid you if you are stuck. Even leveling up you start to feel like you can handle something you couldnt even better. Overall I'm 90 hours in and cannot put the controller down.
This game is a masterpiece anyone else who thinks otherwise is just flat out wrong. This game is the best open world game since botw in 2017 and will be remembered for years.
Horizon MIDbidden fanboys are pathetic asl in the reviews lmao. Y'all have fun with your checklist simulator tho.
Rise , tarnished it has taken over my life , I recommend this game to anyone who is into dark souls
Terrible performance with FPS drops, clunky combat and clunky dodge rolling. Open world game that has no direction what so ever terrible overhyped game.
Hauntingly beautiful, expansive maps filled with terribly forgettable writing, stories and characters. This game is built not to be engaging but to force pissing contests among the hardcore players only staying engaged in order to continue bragging. For a game that was hyped about playing your own way, there's surprisingly little imagination regarding classes, gear, and available ply opportunities. In the end it just comes down to figuring out the best way to build a cheese strategy for each boss and rinse Nd repeat against forced encounters. It's a not a game it's an uncapped grind-athon side quest in another games.
I was at first questioning if this game was going to be good or not since most of the newer games released in the past few years have been either rushed , lazy or flat out broken , but Elden Ring proves to be one of the best games this year. With the gigantic world that have hundreds of things to do , boss battles that are thrilling and amazing to beat , and the beautiful story that comes along. Elden Ring is a must play for people who enjoy soulsborne games and people who have never heard it. I've already sunk in around 115 hours and i've beaten the game a second time. I still saw new things that I've never seen before. An honest 10/10 for the game and congrats to the FromSoftware team.
I think Elden Ring is an amazing game with deep interesting lore and obviously an amazing open world filled with dungeons and secret entrances filled with enemies with their own unique move sets and their own unique boss encounters. The weapon variety is a mad from sorceries to spells to great swords to bows and more. The story is surprisingly interesting and tells you very little about how to get there. Obviously this isn't for everyone the game doesn't even have quest log or a journal to follow you need to remember what to do and you need to find it. But the level design is not as good as it should be. It's still great but sometimes it is horrible. Trying to complete the frenzied flame ending was so stupid. You need to parkour down some tombs to reach the bottom where you can finally defeat the boss. Sometimes sites of grace are put in the worst places. For example the site of grace near where you fight Leonine Misbegotten is so badly placed it is unbelievable sometimes enemies hit through walls, sometimes the game crashes and there is pop-in everywhere. Rhadan has been nerfed at the time of writing which i hate because Radahn was always viewed as a big opponent and that the odds were stacked against you but now he's not. I beat him in one go when i was underleveled. Everything I've meantioned apart from the level design problems i believe doesn't take away from the game. It takes a while to get into but once you do you can't stop.
Literally my favorite game I’ve ever played. I stared with demons souls and since this game it’s just a absolutely unit ****! I love the challenge and the open world is truly mesmerizing, I would have paid 70$ for this game easily. What an accomplished and hope see more of fromsoft as a loyal fan!
Greatest game ever without a doubt. Everything is perfect, greatly balanced..FLAWLESS MASTERPIECE.
Has to be one of the greatest games of all time, if you dont like Dark Souls then this game is maybe not for you. For the people that like that type of game however its a must buy. Full of great monsters to slay and brutal bosses, what is not to like?
All time greatest, such a good game, i can’t wait for the DLC’s, I already played this game over 100 hours
Elden Ring is a masterpiece the vast world that you can explore the amount of content it provides and the sense of accomplishment make this game worthwhile of your time and your money. (Also no micro transactions gives this company my respect)
I'm a FromSoft fan, but irrespective, this is an absolute masterpiece ****. Perhaps slow and tricky to get into, but well worth the time and effort.
It started a bit slow and I was a bit unsure, but as it all unfolds, the game has awoken a part of me within gaming which I havent felt in many, many years. So despite the weaknesses, its still a solid 10
This game is amazing and was more than what i expected it to be when i pre-ordered it! I'm a big fan of from software games and have played every other souls game! Elden ring is the biggest and fastest selling souls game so far and probably will be the game of the year!
Masterpiece Best game of all time Best combat Best music Amazing open world
10/10 for the anti-shills review bombing this game over petty issues (thanks guys and **** totally and completely contaminating the user review process to the point that it is utterly pointless and utterly useless) that are far and away outshined by absolutely epic Souls-style gameplay, hide and seek open world design with quests that must be uncovered to be discovered and followed through to completion, intelligent diversification of the previously at times claustrophobic interlace corridor layout of prior Souls games, into one of the most unique and satisfying open world experiences ever crafted. User reviewers who are dropping 0's, 1's, 2's, 3's , 4's have completely lost **** worse, think they're being honorable in doing so. Quite the opposite, in fact. As for the minor graphical/performance **** age old adage "gameplay trumps graphics" is absolutely hammered home in Elden Ring. And, in spite of the ridiculously low scores trying to prove a point not worth proving, the graphics are very good. They aren't "the ****'s not Ghosts of **** they are good. But any Souls player worth his or her salt, won't care about Ghosts style/level graphics/performance. That's never been what these games are about. It's about the art **** cryptic **** fantastical dark fantasy elements and entities that are straight out of a Salvador Dali fever dream. It's about the build and the weapons and the **** a world beyond one's conception. For those of us Souls lovers who have also been pining for **** bring in something fresh and challenging into the worn and thread-bare open world quasi-RPG adventure game genre.....Elden Ring is a colossal, shining-with-dark-light beacon.....a colossal, over-arching gold-white **** orient oneself around, wherever one might travel looking for hidden wonders in this perennially and compulsively wonderful and extremely dangerous world. Forget the embittered sad-sack, ne'er do wells spraying rectal gas all over everything because they think their activists. They are pests. The hype for this game is planted in good soil. This is a great game. Period
GAME OF THE YEAR. One of the best games that I ever played thanks to everyone made it and gave us this amazing game.
As someone who has never played a solid game, this definitely became my favorite game very quickly. Amazing open world, amazing combat, unique bosses. Truly a masterpiece.
fromsoft boss fights are hands down the best, but the open world system somehow destroys the beauty of it. when you fight a boss over leveled or over upgraded, there's no fun into it. unintended cheese. but i played it the way i want it so of course it's a great game!
Dont buy it, no english subtitle in Asia, cant play and ... cannot be refunded
This game definetly has its flaws, its funny because im rating it a 10 as if it was perfect, but elden ring has so many strengths going for it that I believe out weigh its weaknesses To start of the world is just so pretty to look at and explore thanks to all the unique things each area has. Elden rings maps have so much diversity and secrets that will always make you want to keep looking, its a game that makes you want to take your time, the gameplay can be difficult but extremely rewarding.
Awesome game! Very challenging but also very rewarding. Amazing map design. Fast travel changes everything. Im 60hrs in and still so much to do.
It hurts so good I have not felt better in a long time The cold tears of anger, pain and misery intertwined with warmth of victory Dying is my life My life is no more ps. if the boss asks, tell him I'm very sick
I’ve never played a FromSoftware game before. Elden ring is a return to what gaming should be. No micro transactions. No pay walls. They’ve delivered an absolutely polished, fun game. I wish there was more cohesiveness with the story and lore to get you a little more captivated in the world. Sometimes it just feels like you’re going here to kill that “because”. But that’s alright, every other aspect of the game is basically amazing. I got exactly what I paid for. And I received more value and content than I had originally intended. With this being said, I haven’t seen a game come out where I was like “this is a masterpiece” since RDR2 and perhaps, The Witcher. I will be sure to keep an eye on future FromSoftware games and would recommend anyone who is up for the challenge - BUY IT. Is there issues? Yes. But in this day and age, this is exactly what I’m looking for out ****. Complete, no bs, beautiful landscapes, runs smooth on the Xbox series X. They delivered exactly what they promised (and more). For that I have to give Elden Ring a 10/10 and other publishers and developers should take note.
Utter overhyped trash i hope a game like this never goes as viral as this did due to streamers who've never even played a fromsoftware title
Best game I played in my life and I started playing video games 25 years ago!
One of the best games I've ever played. This is how an open world game should be done and one of the only games to rival breath of the wild(possibly even succeed in some regards) Ubisoft should be ashamed as this knocks their copy & paste world design out the park.
Don’t believe the negative comments. If you explore the game not rushing and talk to npc’s and listen to what they tell you carefully you’ll have a great time with the story!
So far, this is the closest game to what I dreamt an heroic fantasy D&D game could be. Yes hard but the open world allow you to level and explore even if you cannot beat a boss (to some degree). The game is beautiful, very fluid (PS5) except for some lag spike. Only true negative would be for the lack of help to novice players. I did not google it before buying and the start was very difficult, and I almost gave up. I had to spend hours on YouTube after that to learn how to play. The tutorial (that I missed at first) does not cover magic at all !! Yes if you had infinite amount of time, you can try and learn, but for real users with daily job, at least add some in game method to learn. It is unnecessarily made into an experienced users-only. At level 70, I barely defeated 3 of the "main" bosses but I admit i am hooked.
to simply put, best game ever, hands down, it redefines open world and expands the souls formula
An incredibly big world full of surprises, challenges at every corner and incredible rewards. The ultimate Souls- style game with incredible gamelpay and tons of hours of content
Praise this message. 10/10. Absolutely one of the best games i have ever played. Time for Crab.
As a gamer with more than 20 years venturing into virtual universes, I confess that it's not easy for a game to drive me crazy so that at the end of a working day, I get home and play making the most of my time. Elden Ring, as it was with RDR2 and TW3, managed to masterfully hold me in a way that today, with so many games with ready-made formulas and copied or poorly done works, they cannot innovate in games, but it manages to rescue what I seek most in a game: the real fun.
Easily be the GOTY. Although the PC version has the optimization problem, the immersive world make it worth to wait for the patch.
...................................the best game of its genre, other companies should learn, cheap, no micro payments, difficult and takes a long time to finish the game
Katanas too op Gets hyped because of open world trent Bosses get reused Not as good boss design as dark souls 3 poor design World design is good after first world
This is my first ever souls game I have ever had the will to play. I played DS, DS2, and DS3 for like an hour and stopped because I just felt like those games weren't made for me. Years later this gem drops and I have to be honest, I haven't been hooked on a game like this since Monster Hunter: World. This game is phenomenal, scary, beautiful, stressing, breathtaking, but most importantly.... FUN, which is something not a lot of games have nowadays. The world is expansive and so incredibly detailed. The weapons and armor look sick and the combat is really good, it kinda makes you want to master it since that is what the game is all about, fighting giant bosses. The target lock on camera can get a bit annoying if there are multiple enemies in an area but that's mostly a me type of thing. I have been playing for 55 hours so far and it feels like I haven't even scratched the surface of this game and I really don't want it to end. I really enjoy this game and I feel like this is perfect for newcomers like myself to jump in and lose yourself in the vast world of Elden Ring. It may look a little intimidating at first, but that is part of the challenge. That's what makes this game FUN, the challenge. That momentous feeling after killing Margit or Godrick or even the tree sentinel really gives you an indescribable sense of accomplishment, redemption and pride. Then you keep going, you're getting better, stronger, wiser, and more skilled and to me that alone really makes this game so FUN to me. This game has set a standard and I really do believe that this is my GOTY. I love you God of War: Ragnarok, but this game has really blown my mind. 11/10 Game of the Decade
Incredibly well made game. Never have i ever enjoyed exploring as much as i did in this game. Finally a map with not a single icon on it, you start with an empty map, whatever you explore gets added to the map. The online mode is also incredibly fun. Deserves all the perfect scores it got.
This is the kind of game that comes once in a decade. This game is a true Masterpiece!
I normally don't get on metacritic to post a review, but I adamantly disagreed with a lot of the negative reviews I've seen. I can understand that it might not be the game for everyone, especially if you don't enjoy exploring, but a lot of the reviews just seemed unfairly negative. I've played all the Dark Souls games minus Sekiro, and I believe Elden Ring is more than worth the hype that it's been given. It has these amazingly designed difficult bosses and less run-back time thanks to the Marika Statues that act as checkpoints. On top of that the world is absolutely breathtaking, not because the graphics are particularly amazing but because of how the world itself is designed and its artistic direction. The best part about Elden Ring is that if a specific boss feels too hard there are tons of ways to make it easier if you're struggling. You can summon a plethora of different kinds of summons or you can summon some people online to help you with a boss. In addition, if you don't want to do either of those, you can just go to a castle off in the distance, a cave or ruins marked on your map, or just let whimsy take you. This exploration when you get stuck on a boss you feel underleveled for helps alleviate some of that rage you built up from bashing your head against it over and over again. Either way, there are some minor flaws in this game, but I just feel that nearly all the design decisions for Elden Ring were amazing. I currently have about 180 hours into the game, and I'll probably put double that in before I put the game down for a break.
The peak of the souls games. An absoltute masterpiece. The first game in years that its complete at launch.
In my opinion there's a lot of issues with this hyped game.. I mean a LOT!.. Starting from graphics, idk I feel like the resolution is like 3yr outdated.. Camera and target acquaintance are really trash. Motion animation is very frustrating, thus no action cancel with roll. And the most important thing is that the developers force us to be working while playing.. Need too much attention and we need to do a self database-like ourselves to get anything from this game ( or googling it, RIGHT.. That's really fun playing like that) . It just takes too much effort that u just miss the fun. I think the devs just thought they were making a game for prodigys and genius people...
This is my favourite From Software game and, BY FAR, my favorite game of all time. Sure it has some performance issues, but nothing game breaking and that isn't patcheable anyway. Fromsoft was never famous for their performance anyway, take bloodborne for example: constant frame drop, doesnt stop it from being one of the best games of all time. Besides the imersion in this game is astonishing, i ended up losing the path i was supposed to take so many times and i loved every second of it It sure isnt for everyone, just like any other souls game, but for me it is a masterpiece, and a culmination of every piece of good characteristics the other souls games have, mashed up together
So far the best game from FromSoftware. A ton of new content and features. Amazing story with amazing atmosphere and world build. Absolutely loving it!
like it! open field, fun combat. could have more accessibility, it causes a bit of stress while playing
Sad to see those types of comments "Graphics are below average and it's boring. If you want a game that's not repetitive with way better details - play HFW." So now a good game is determined by his graphics ? ROFLMAO - i did HFW juste before elden, great game and better graphics, but still prefering way more Elden ring
just perfect , Elden Ring has story, a beautiful open world thanks to fromsoftware
I can´t stop playing this game! If you don´t know what to do or find it to hard, look up some video´s on youtube.
This game is practically dark souls 4 i fell for the hype now i'm stuck with this **** ass game! I used to play souls games when these mechanics where not severly outdated. Fromsoft really needs to stop putting the drag a big sword around and swing like an old lady mechanic in all of it's games (except for sekiro) wich was a fresh wind. So people if you love souls games and want more of the same in an open world game congrats you found it. To all others stay far away this game is not for you!
Graphics are below average and it's boring. If you want a game that's not repetitive with way better details - play HFW.
Incredible game with amazing art direction, amazing atmospher, and great soundtrack.
I don't know anything from game because after I bought it from Asia Playstation store I found out there is a region lock and I can't play game in English language. OMG what's with these new policies? Please make an update and fix it... so we all foreign who live in Asian regions can enjoy playing the game.
Absolute Masterpiece, from a player that has never played a fromsoftware game
BEWARE: If you get this game in Japan or other countries in Asia, there is no option to play the game in English on the PlayStation. English audio only. Refunds are being denied.
Where do I even begin... Open world is a joke. It's a big mostly empty map, and your reward for exploration is always - hey fight these guys and get this item!! The world is static and boring for the most part. Movement or attacking feels laggy in a game that by all appearances should reward fast instincts.there is a huge input queue with no cancellation, so you're locked into the attack you pressed 1 second ago, even if the animation hasn't started and you try to do something else instead. It's buggy, but called "hard" instead. I could go on but the other reviews cover it, so I'll just summarize: In general there is no joy to the game at all. The emotional arc of every sequence is "grind, grind, grind, omg I finally beat it". Good for masochists, narrow and painful for anyone else. On the plus side, marketing department clearly did a great job here.
Very fun, better performance than pc Gameplay is tried and true, only improves on a fantastic formula
Yet another Souls game. For better or worse, mostly just the same. Yep it's a Souls game with a poorly developed open world tacked on, has some repetitive dungeons with minibosses sprinkled around with poor rewards and repeated mechanics. No real advancement to the series, just the same old with a lot of empty, uninteresting (even if pretty) stretches of open world added on. More troll cheese from the devs, some baffling unbalanced bosses, etc. If you liked the previous entries in the de facto serial franchise.. you might like this one... just don't expect anything beyond what came before. The worst part is that this is a full price, supposedly AAA, game and the graphics look like they're from 7 years ago, the PC performance is inexcusably bad and LOCKED TO 60 FPS. The menus are still a mess to navigate. If this weren't by FromSoft people would be **** on it left and right and raging at the company for releasing an half baked product. Alas, sheeps will baa and follow the herd Underwhelming
This game is phenomenal!!! I'm 100 hours in the game, and I just can't stop playing it, already reached the last boss earlier but I'm skipping him to explore every single corner that I missed, and I can tell you this game still surprising me with everything I discover in this open world map. I love the PvP system that you will never get invaded when you playing solo, but only if you're in a party with a friend or cooperator. Many bosses with unique mechanics, also a lot of copy non story bosses, but I can understand why, still enjoyable none the less.
Very buggy, can't even hit 60fps on ps5 steadily even though a game as heavy as Ghost of Tsushima runs at a locked 60fps with no loading time, this is very unoptimized. I die randomly at elevators, horrible grass pop in, dungeons and most other world bosses are copy and paste, game is hard in late game just for the sake of being hard, seems like From has forgot why people play these games. Sekiro and Bloodborne were their best games, and those games were difficulty done right. No matter how much of a tank you're, everything in haligtree and snowy mountaintops will 2 shot you. Enemies and bosses are designed to attack you as soon as you hit square to heal, crucible Knights will just stand there do nothing but as soon as you press R1 their hitting animation will start and they'll hit you first, it's just designed to F you over. I sound like a broken record but the game is difficult just to F with the player. It's unfair, you get gank boss fights in every corner of the game, they went back to dark souls 2 days where they put 500 enemies in one room and they call that fair difficulty. Godskin duo!?? Really!!? Seems like they ran out of time and were like "aha! Let's put these 2 bosses in one room and call it a new boss, oh also. Let's make them self revive". Also, this game **** on the face of every STR player , by making every strength weapons scale with either INT or FAI. Even if you get one of these heavy weapons, it'll be absolutely useless, because every late game boss is gonna be 100 times faster than you, rendering your STR build useless. Btw I can't wait to see this review on r/Eldenring since they're a bunch of crybabies that don't let people criticise their god miyazaki or they'll post these reviews on there.
**** pc port of a console game. Dont need seventy five characters. Nothing else needs to be said.
While challenging, and at times frustrating, no open-world RPG has captured the sheer joy of exploration and discovery as much as this game. A constantly surprising and compelling world, even at it's most grotesque and disturbing, I have been utterly engrossed in this title since day one. It has restored my faith in, not only RPGs, but video games in general. It treats the player as a grown-up and lets you create your own story, your own myth, in a world that rewards curiosity, bravery and ingenuity. It's not a game for everyone. At times it's a game that demands a great deal, perhaps more than many players will want to give. But given the time and the dedication you are rewarded with one of the most memorable experiences in video game history.
The best game of the last years! You discover all the time something new. I love this game!!
After playing +130 hours and achieving the platinum, I'm proudly saying that this game is a masterpiece and my second all time favourite game after RDR2 and the best soulsborne game.
Exact the „Souls“ we all wanted. Masterpiece and Game of the Year '22 so far.
250+ Hours. Nearly perfect. Why the 1 point deduction? - Graphics are good, but not up to AAA standards for Ps5 - Sadly, no real ps4 to ps5 differences besides performance - There is no hand-holding. For some players, this may feel cruel. - At times, solutions to roadblocks are so left-field it's near impossible without community hints. - Takes a solid 20-30 hours before progress feels fluid. Why the 9? - Best open world combat to date. You'll likely replay the entire game to try a different combat style. - It's huge. 250+ hours and I'm only now getting around to beating it. - Hard, but not as hard as other Souls games. You can get OP fast if it's your intention. - Secrets galore. The world is littered with breadcrumbs to sidetrack you in the best way possible. - Risk/Reward is balanced. When it's "too much", you're probably in the right place at the wrong time. - True gaming glory. No doubt you die a lot, but victories have never felt more fun and meaningful. TLDR : Minor performance shortcomings. A revolutionary take on the Open-World RPG and must-play for fans of combat/exploration RPGs.
From the start, you can tell this isn't your run if the ml cookie cutter game, thank God.
Having good fun exploring. Great graphics. Coming up against random giants to kill is fun
this game comprises all the good you are looking for in an open world. an organic world, which lives on its own, and which pushes the player to explore it more and more. beyond the battle system which is already known in the souls franchise.
Truly an incredible experience. This game is a mix between the tightly crafted and rewarding challenging Souls formula we've come to know and love and a sprawling open world with secrets and discoveries everywhere. I was afraid this would break the mostly-linear design of From Software's previous classic entries but it only strengthens it in my book, adding an entirely new layer and showing a natural evolution to the formula. You're let go almost instantly, with only a general pointer in the direction of the main story, but you'll quickly learn that rushing the bosses will be a grueling and punishing feat, encouraging exploration. While From Software, for some reason or another, still struggle with confusing UI and menu navigation for newcomers, this game is more beginner-friendly than ever before. No more is the solution to encountering a hard boss to just keep trying again and again for hours. Now you can do something else. Empower your weapons, get significant new abilities and ashes and much much more, but most importantly: gain experience. There are also a ton of different playstyles available of different difficulties, so while there might now be a difficulty slider, the player can choose differing paths to get an easier or harder time with the game. The story is pretty obscure, so unless you're willing to read and read and explore every corner of the world, don't expect to get a clear cut picture of the world you're in. My other main gripe would be the horrible performance on consoles especially and all PC players daring to put the motion blur on.
A bit hard to begin with the combat system and can be a bit frustrating but later on once you're used to the game it's fantastic.
massive game and a must for any souls fan. Personally, i found the re-use of bosses a bit off putting and most of them were pretty forgettable too. this isnt in my top 3 soulslike games but it still gets a 9/10 which goes to show how good fromsoft is.
Beautiful game, só mano secrets to discover. I cannot stop playing this!! Goty 2022 probably.
Malenia post-patch 1.03 is the reason I wrote this review, I love from software games but they just can't keep taking accesibility away, the nerf to slime is just too much, I don't have time to learn invensinble bosses's moveset, I am an adult with bigger responsabilities than playing videogames, after I finally beat Malenia I don't feel good, I only feel depression for wasting so much time in a video game for only one boss, what happens if I have to take more responsabilities in a few years with children in my house? I won't play from software games anymnore and I love them, I love their worlds and characters, but difficulty don't make better games, just toxicity, when I play qith certain weapon or build I just hear people claim "you don't play the real dark souls if you play with magic" if videogames like Devil may cry have easy mode, I don't understand why fromsoft's games can't
I have played the game for 216 hours. Currently at 198 level. Frankly speaking, I have never faced any issue, graphics wise. My PS5 version was perfect. The game design was beautiful. The well thought quests were thrilling. The character design, story was awesome. The best part of the game is the boss fights for which we play this game. I personally enjoyed the game to the fullest. I believe, it's the game of the decade. The players who are giving bad ratings, don't know anything about gaming. They have hardly played the game. Don't give excuse that you are a novice. This was my first souls game and I platinumed it. If you don't like challenges, please don't play this game. This is not for casual gamers. This is for players who love challenges. Accept that, nobody can make such beautiful and deadly open world game than fromsoft. Appreciate and enjoy it.
I can live in this world! The level design of this game is suppa-awesome with all of the legacy (which is good for me) from previous game series.
One of the best games I ever played!!! The sense of exploration the mystery is phenomenal… I already write 200 hours and continue
Technically game is not next-gen and uses forced chromatic aberration filter to hide graphical flaws. Lots of texture and mesh pop in, mostly on environments. A lot of enemies and bosses are reskins from previous games, same goes for the players character animations. In a lot of cases not only animations but entire models are simply copied from previous games (giant crabs etc). Mechanically game is identical to any soulsborne game, meaning controls (especially for keyboard & mouse) are inconvenient for 2022. UI is horrendous. Main bosses are forgettable and the world even tho it is open, feels empty or meaningless. Extremely large MMO buildings and areas - aka. exaggerated just for the sense of awe while inside is usually just an empty box. Soulsbourne cryptic type npcs work in linear games where you will meet them no matter what - these quest types are not fit an open world scenario. Music is uninspiring. Its an overhyped game with a horrible PC port.
So glad i got to be born in a time to experience this masterpiece, makes all the bad stuff going on around the worth truly bare-able. Although FromSoft had had a good track record, i was low key afraid that it would not live up to the hype due to the sheer amount of hype surrounding it, but FromSoft knocked it out of the park and more yet again with this one.
Overrated. This game is basically a copy/paste of the previous Souls.. DS2 Is light ages ahead this game. Money wasted
Cool boss and area design's. Epic story telling. Good but not best graphic. ** Souls like game **. And more and more. And one of my favorite games i ever played
An overall must-do for all adventure-lovers. The graphics might be a bit dated for ps5, but Elden Ring’s universe makes up for it. The freeroaming is truly satisfying, and you kind of make up your own story. This game is, however, a difficult, punishing one - as you would expect from FromSoftware. I personnaly don’t mind, if you know what you ´re facing. Unfortunately, the very dated gameplay and the unending bugs make your experience.. tarnished. You can sometimes spend several hours on a single non-boss enemy, whereas you would kill a boss in a few minutes. And that makes it very frustrating. Watch out for your controllers!
Best open world game since BOTW. Amazing story, art direction and atmosphere. This game is the very pinnacle of From Soft and will be fodder for intellectual critique for the time to come.
Typical Souls Game but 3x Times the Size. Already my GOTY. A Warning for Newcomers expect a game that is hard and seems unfair if you dont understand mechanics. Dont play it with Keyboard and Mouse a Controller is Mandatory. Also the Gamei s only great if you find Quests and solve them on your own.
This game is so incredible, I can say that this is one of the best video games I've played, it has an amazing map, the art of it is breathtaking and the game looks amazing, the bosses are a challenge for all of us, so yuppp thanks again from software
pure excellence, a benchmark for modern AAA games, thank you Miyazaki and the team
Don't believe the negative review bombs from the user scores. They are pissed off babies crying that the game doesnt have an easy mode. They are so accustomed and blinded by super easy, stale open world games with microtransactions like assassins creed that holds your hand 100% of the way. They are mad that they have to actually explore the game world and find things for themselves instead of just opening the map and choosing 1 out of the 100 repetative fetch quests or "go climb this" to reveal even more repetative fetch/collect quests. I can GUARANTEE that the people who are giving this a bad review raged quit at the first main boss because this is their first souls born game and have zero patience and skill to overcome anything thats actually a challenge. Once they died maybe 5 to 6 times they broke their tv and came to review bomb the game while breathing heavly and slaming on their keyboard keys. This isn't an "inbetween" game, you either loved dark souls or you hated it, and those who loved it will praise the game because they actually know what the hell they are talking about and those that have never played a souls game and claim they have been playing since demon souls are full of **** and are giving this game a bad review because this game wasn't for them in the first place and ALL souls games have ALWAYS been know for their extreme difficulty. Don't believe these 30 year old virgins that are afraid to do anything outside of what their mothers have cradled them to do and do yourself the greatest favor you will ever do and go out and buy this game.
Massive world soooo many items and equipment character creation is fantastic secrets everywhere can miss many things if not paying attention bosses are very varied but some reskinned little more hp bosses the world is beautiful and detailed not many games as good as this are made anymore.
I don't like souls games, all of them were not that great and hard to master. But this one is just an epic art show. 9 because lazy noobs will no be able to play this game, no easy mode. I needed one week for Margit or whatever his name was. So I'm kinda a noob too but I'm not lazy. You will get so much game for a little bucks.
An absolute masterpiece! Incredible lore, insane world detail, and spectacular mechanics, this game is the full package. Must try!
This is absolutely the best game I have ever played. Theres so many incredible bosses that I just cant stop playing even after 100 hours of gameplay already. Amazing!
Namco Bandai USA support is disgusting, I spent 300 USD and never received my Collector's Ed. (in Canada). Namco keeps passing on responsibility to USPS and I can't even open a claim with USPS because I'm not the sender. I discovered a lot of customers with tbe same problem and Namco is very efficient to cover the problem. While Namco literally got my money and run, I'll keep the zero score.
Elden Ring is one of the best games anyone could ever play or get into. With that said, there’s an uproot of difficulty and expectations that you will fail and fail— time and time again. The exploration is a new broadened experience added to this franchise and feels welcome rightfully, of course with a couple of caveats. Graphically impressive and mesmerizing, alongside a gigantic amount of creatures, bosses, and dragons. This game has it all for you, if you’re willing to accept the consistent loss of progress and effort.
It one of the best video games I've ever experienced. it's a piece of art by any means.
A wonderful open world experience. Truly masterful. Every time I think I've found everything I stumble somewhere new. I've spent hours just exploring this game. This is a goty nominee for sure.
For full transparency, I never liked any of the other Souls games. This is my favorite of the Souls games that I have played. This is because the game feels easier, with many battles being optional and the open world allowing for stealth approaches, so it’s more welcoming to people who aren’t diehard fans like myself. The open world definitely makes this the most accessible of all the games, and the way they drop you into the open world with minimal guidance or objectives is very cool. The game forces you to explore which is a pleasure because the world is beautiful. I also like how they encourage natural exploration and curiosity unlike other open world games which flood your minimap with 20 different icons. The game really shines in the aesthetic design of the world and it really feels like it captures the dark fantasy theme, especially the color palettes - the first area has the green colored skies and the golden colored clouds, it almost looks like a metal album cover. The world really is visually stunning, and with each additional section of the map that you uncover, you begin to realize how vast and varying the environments are. The game has interesting lore, but the very spread out story and lack of opportunities to learn more about the lore just make it a visual experience. Even the rare NPC that yoy come across doesn’t really offer anything of interest. The graphics are good, and really add to the intrigue of the world. While it is beautiful and has interesting lore sprinkled throughout, it feels like a bit of a boring world. It’s big, it’s empty, the enemies are randomly scattered throughout, but there isn’t much substance there beyond the visuals. There are few random NPCs, and if you find any, usually it’s one person standing in the middle of nowhere. I do love the aesthetics of the world, unfortunately it’s just a bit of an uninteresting world because it’s rather empty and the lore is way too spread out. The sound is terrible - limited music, repetitive sound effects, generic ambient noise, it’s almost necessary to listen to a podcast or music when you play this game. One thing I always hated about the Souls games was the controls, and there are no different here. It always feels like it’s lacking any fluidity and it feels very rigid, and I don’t understand the praise Souls fans give these robotic motions. Even the button combinations are very confusing - even after ten hours of gameplay I still do the incorrect input during the heat of battle. The AI is also brick stupid, enemies will stop in their tracks to look at you, and if you step back, they just continue following their assigned path. The only major issue I had with the game was that it explains so little, I felt that I had to spend way too much time on Google figuring out how to do something simple like equip a spell. The entire game has a long learning curve - I didn’t care for the first 5 hours of the game at all, but when it clicked with me, I started enjoying it. All in all, I enjoyed the game more than any of the other Souls games, and I generally disliked most of the others. Adding the open world to the Souls formula was a necessary change to capture a wider audience like myself. I’m hoping future Souls games keep the open world. While the game is nowhere near as good as Breath of the Wild, it does replicate similar feelings of exploration, which I don’t think many games have captured. It’s a good game with a lot to offer, but to call this a perfect game is simply inaccurate. It’s big, it’s beautiful, it’s empty, and it’s clunky. EDIT: I left my same review up but increased the score from a 7 to an 8. It finally clicked with me. Still not worthy of anywhere near the 97 critic score, but it’s a great game. The bread and butter of the game is its ability to sow natural curiosity and exploration. EDIT 2: I have never revised an interview once, let alone twice, but I felt compelled to increase the score from an 8 to a 9. The learning curve is brutal, but once it clicks, it’s fantastic. The world is much larger than I initially expected, and I want to continue seeing what more there is, especially since I know I’m nowhere near halfway through the game. Unfortunately I don’t think I’ll ever give it a 10, the narrative is weak, I still find the controls to be cumbersome, I still find the world to be a little too empty. But this game really did blow me away.
As a long time fan of RPG'S like Elder Scrolls and numerous other titles I think this game is leaps and bound above them all its simply amazing!
Best game I have ever played, by far. Endless, rewarding and addictive. It`s hard, yes. If you want an easy open world "tell you everything, go left here, go straight there" game, go for Ass's Creed, this one might not be for you. It's more of a journey, not a race.
This might be my favorite game of all time, I am a big fan of From Software games and this is the next evolution of the dark souls formula. This is not a game for everyone, if you dont like the soulsbourne series this game might not be for you, these games are obscure by design but if you find that difficult and irritating I would recommend you to look up a beginners guide on youtube and you might just start to enjoy these games. This is not a game where you follow mindlessly a waypoint and get everything spoonfed to you, the game goes out of its way to hide its content. You are activly exploring and looking for clues and the game does an excelent job leaving breadcrumbs for the player to follow and this makes uncovering said content very rewarding. Here is one of many examples: At the time of writing I uncoverd a huge underground dungeon in an area I had already been through, I just went back to kill an optional boss, looked around for a bit, saw an item i could not reach, went looking for the way to said item and ended up finding a huge area hidden away. You are in other words really rewarded if you are a curious player and somewhat of a detective. The world is beautiful with awesome music. When I was nearing demigod nr. 3 I stopped to enjoy the view and the gorgeous music for a while. This is truly a masterpice and I hope people whom are not into the difficult and obscure games of From Software will give this a chance. The difficulty of these games are really the learning phase, but once you get the hang of them they are not a joy! The difficulty gives you a fealing of dread when you are venturing into the unknown, embrace it. I have been playing this game on PS5 and I have sometimes experienced fps drops when I am riding in forrest areas, but nothing that has been game breaking.
Complete garbage, graphics are outdated, music is the same, bosses are repetitive, it's a copy and paste job. Total junk.
I love this game. It feels like Hidetaka Miyazaki and his team put everything they learnt from making other souls game and applied everything that was good about them into one game. It shows George R R Martin wrote the script for this game. Even though the story is vague as expected from such games, whatever is there is full of depth. The bosses are exceptional. Even though you’ll die a lot but when you overcome a challenge you’ll be exhilarated. I like their take on open world games. I feel like from now on every other open world game that is going to come out it will be compared to this game. I like instead of going semi open world (linear) souls like games it went full open world. Instead of telling you what to do, it just leaves you be yourself and explore. No overcrowded UI. Instead of crowding the UI with unnecessary stuffs it lets you enjoy the beautiful world they created. Even though there are some improvements that could’ve been done, but I feel they did an exceptional job. I am looking forward to more games like this.
Amazing game! Everything a souls fan could have hoped for and it for sure exceeded the hype. However, the technical issues and the pop in issue on PS5 is really distracting and not acceptable considering todays standards in gaming.
Perfect balance between challenge and exploration. The main bosses are fun and the dungeons too. Just wish they were a bit clearer with the story, even more when they had George RR Martin writing it. But overall, very enjoyable and full of content and variety. Loved it
muito bom, excelente camon every bory, lets go play go home is nice play video game, não precisa de super grafico pra ser um excelente game, mas pegou carona no Zelda Breath of the Wild, sem sombra de duvidas mas ta valendo.
I dont like it I am sorry. I am not sure where the hype is coming from. Maybe it is just that the ganme is too difficult for me or that I am new to this kind of games. 10 hours into the game and I dont feel like I know what the h*** I am doing. There is no sense of direction! I am not accomplishing anything! Graphics looked like the remastered version of The Witcher, which was released 10 years ago? My character is not even talking LOL. Maybe thats the design of the game? I would like to give it more hours though. Let's see.
First of all,thats my first souls like game I've ever played. And this game is definitely a masterpiece. This game has a story but it hides it. This game doesn't hold you hand and drags you through the world. You get quests and the npcs just tell you where to go. This game is about walking through the beautiful landscape and to scout. The open world has lots of different enemies, bosses. So many stuff, you can make so many different builts. You have so many weapons, spells, armor. You can literally spent hundreds of hours before killing the first story boss. The graphics look good. I don't know why people say it's outdated. I think most of the people thought this game would be like skyrim. It's designed to not guide you. It's designed to make YOU look for secrets or for quests etc. I'm not really a fan of this genre but this game made me consider trying other from software games.
Fantastic game! Lots of content, challenging combat, many combinations of creating characters and huge open world. Money well spent!
Terribly boring game. It's not that it's a hard game as mentioned in many reviews, it's that the point of the game is to memorize boss moves and learn after dying over and over how to avoid their attacks. And that's it. The graphics are nothing impressive, the story is boring, there's nothing to it than constant boss fights with no real payoff. Also it's advertised as coop but really is not. You can jump through hoops to summon a friend but they get no benefit from playing with you and if you beat a boss they disappear and you have to do it all over again.
If you love DarkSouls and Bloodborne, you will love this game, graphics are great and story is good.
Do you remember when PS1 released and how it’s change the whole idea and how games can be will Elden Ring gave me the same vibes it’s NOT perfect by any mean BUT its definitely THE (ONLY) GREAT OPEN WORLD game FromSoftware made sure that every corner of world was interesting to find and we need to listen to the NPC and read the items receive , a lot of things in the game I didn’t need to do or see to complete the game but here is the different in FS games THE WORLD IS THE STORY and it’s so damn good to explore I have never in the 200hr said “oh when can I just finish it” like a lot of boring open world games Instead I enjoy every place and suffer in other and you know what all of that can be ignored if someone don’t like it and just follow the story and finish it quickly , Elden Ring could be new stander for the open world games it’s fun and enjoyable to explore have fun be curious find secrets know the story read between the lines they make sure it is OR go straight to the boss if you don’t like all of that , do you see what I mean for me it’s feels like FS just said it’s your world do what you want and we are sure you will enjoy it Best game of all time 10/10 * English not my native language figure out the mess I said ;)
Amazing. If you are a souls fan this is like cake, pie, champagne and the **** all in one. Frame rate issues aren't rare for souls, but ps5 makes it feel odd. Minor issues with what is really an amazing game that brings together the best of all souls and then some.
Best game ever. U won’t know until u try. It’s been the best experience so far for me, and i’ve play a lot of souls game, and this graphic is top notch… If there was a Nobel prize for games, Elden is definitely the holder
Masterpiece these nuts. Overestimated product whose lore is a half-written pile of garbage. It runs like my paraplegic great-grandmother with parkinson's disease, because it stutters profusely, crashes every 30 minutes and suffers from input lag. The rushed release also brought a lot of collision related issues. The graphics are meh for a game of these years and the NPCs are garbage characters with 2 lines of dialogue. The game endings are ridiculously bad and you won't understand them anyway. The positives this game has: Nice sense of vastity, (although the Erdtree sometimes changes location based on where you are). Improved mechanics from the last games. OK combat I guess, if you don't play on PC that is. Doesn't bring anything new to the table except that even if you don't give a damn about your game, you can achieve huge success when hiring famous people.
It’s awesome, big and perfect. 140 hours still lot to explore and discover. Being open world it allows players to have more scopes around tougher areas.
This was my first soulslike game and all I can say is that it was mind-blowing. Yes, it was tough, but it was also accessible. The challenge never seemed impossible for the pure reason that I could just go somewhere else and come back again later. There's so much freedom and this is the first time that I have found an open world to actually be rewarding.
As close to a 10/10 game as I’ve played in years, I never liked Dark Souls as it seemed needlessly hard but I really wanted to give this game a try. I came in to the game with the mindset that there would be pain and death and to learn from it, and I am loving it. The size, scope and attention to detail in this world is truly incredible, you can run in any direction and run in to something incredible. It is tough, challenging, dark and downright infuriating at times, and it is a bloody masterpiece. I have barely scratched the surface of this game, and it has been a long time since a game has captured my imagination the way elden ring has.
I steered away from the Souls series for a long time despite the beautiful graphics and design, on account of the brutal reputation for difficulty they had. For this game, the marketing said that this game would finally be accessible to the average player. That was a deliberate and sadistic bold faced lie through and through. I have played a fair distance into the game and put up with many challenges, but eventually there comes a point that expecting the player to have millisecond reaction timing to overcome superly one sided fights is absolutely disgusting in terms of the gameplay design. The pacing of the levelling up is terrible after the beginner areas. The distances between the save points to the hardest areas of the game are unnecessarily long. Bosses and challenge opponents will suddenly have unbalanced countering range and abilities that are unavailable to the player. Overall, this game is a bait and switch for making content accessible to the wider audience. I agree with the many reviews on here that it entirely does not deserve the 10 out of 10 praise that so many are giving it. I acknowledge that so much of the content was beautifully created, but so much of it is locked behind a rage wall of gameplay. Do not waste your money on a console version. There are beautiful designs and content to enjoy, but it would probably be done better on PC in order to install mods to level the playing field as long as you don't care about multiplayer.
I have waited patiently for the next game from FROMSOFT, but especially this one being a Dark Souls game in an open world. This game has not disappointed in the least, rather has exceeded ever expectation. It is an enormous game and it is a world filled with amazing bosses, NPCs, enemies, spells and wonders at every turn. It is worth your time and your money. You won’t regret it. My Game of the Year for certain. One of the best games I’ve ever played.
Developers do not know how to balance the game whatsoever. Boss battles are often unfair, and really spammy.
Fromsoft continues to use archaic mechanics in the name of difficulty while other developers that were inspired to create difficult games because of fromsofts (undeserved) critical reception have seemingly all surpassed them in every aspect of game design from combat to traversal to designing a fun difficulty curve, absolutely not a “must play” for anyone unfamiliar with fromsoft’s past games
The first 20 hours were absolute phenomenal. It felt like an amazing open world game, in which you are free from the beginning. But after a while, the gameplay becomes repetitive and boring. All dungeons get frustrating and boring after you already completed some. This game is also unbalanced. You don't even need armor because the bosses will always two shot you. You could spend over an hour trying to complete a dungeon and get nothing as a reward. I bet that if this game came out from an unknown publisher it wouldn't get a 96 rating which is way too high. Thus game had the potential to be one of the greatest games ever but after a while, so can see that its just not good enough.
Must play open world game. Challenging but not impossible, if you haven't played a Souls game before this is a great start.
It's a decent game but not all that strong an effort from From. The graphics are quite lovely. The story is generic. The GUI is atrocious. Any game with out a quit to desktop function in 2022 is suspect. The combat is certainly the weakest of the From games I have played. It relies on copy pasted enemies, and unoptimized boss fights to pad game play time. Go Play Dark Souls 1 if you haven't already. its the same game play with a much better map.
Too many repeated bosses, late game is kinda boring, ashes of war are so weak and pathetic in comparison with unique weapons, performance problems... Ilike a lot in the begining but now is kinda sad, I love Radahn but I hate fighting with the same enemies over and over again
For me, this game was the best experience from Fromsoftware. keep the quality along the future Fromsoftware!
Could be the best game ever but the buggy laggy mess destroyed this game to **** input is a thing in this game...unplayable game
I live in Ukraine, this game is the only thing that saves me in this difficult time for us (war against Russia). This is a great game with a great storyline and gameplay. I thank Miyazaki and FromSoftware that released it at this difficult time for us.
A fantastic game overall and a very unique take on the open-world action-RPG genre. That said, I do not believe this game was well optimized for next-gen consoles, especially the PS5 in particular. This was the only game I voluntarily played in quality mode (30fps) for a majority of the experience due to the semi-frequent frame drops, and I'm spoiled rotten by high framerates. Also, I would've loved to see the DualSense's features involved a little more in the experience, a la Demon's Souls, such as the adaptive triggers and more haptics. Although I can't ignore how well the SSD works in loading a massive game like this lightning-fast, which especially makes (frequently) dying feel far less of a chore, albeit with some major pop-in every now and then. Nonetheless, the gameplay and design of the game itself are nothing short of amazing and very smartly designed, although I can name a few bosses which relied a bit too heavily on RNG and luck to properly manage (e.g. a certain endgame boss's snow attack, and a gank boss in a mid-late game underground area of Limgrave). I also LOVE how forgiving the checkpoints are before most bosses and major encounters, which IMO, is a massive improvement from past Souls games, especially DeS. Nonetheless, like a majority of people, I strongly recommend this game for Soulsborne newcomers or those who found the past FromSoft games too challenging, but still, know what you're getting into and as everyone says: git gud.
Elden Ring is an RPG that builds on the from soft formula that they have been building for years. Although this instalment does not drastically change the gameplay, the additions to the mechanics and improvement of aesthetics are more than welcome. Elden Ring at it's best is an incredible action RPG that does not forget what roleplaying means. You can start the game as whoever you want, and that doesn't restrict who you can become in any way. Quest-lines give you choice in a way not seen in the dark souls series prior. The open world is non-restrictive and the land is intricately connected to the lore and the history that has been built to give you an idea of the care and detail that has been built for this game. The lore and the world have been so intertwined that learning something about the lore will 9 times out of 10 add to your ability to play the game. The difficulty and freedom, however, are not for everybody. This means that many of the characteristics that are purposefully part of the game may be seen as bad, or aversive to many who don't click with the gameplay, freedom, or storytelling. Although everyone's likes and dislikes are valid, this does mean that this game is not for all audiences. This is perfectly ok though, as it does not take away from what has been accomplished in the release of this game.
**** **** game!! Terrible bosses, ugly af, piece of **** gargoyles, **** GARGOYLES
This is the ultimate version of Dark Souls thanks to its vast and gigantic open world.
I personally believe that this is the new best adventure game ever made there are flaws like some bosses just being lazy but the rest of the game makes up for those flaws the shear amount of content is unbelievable. I have already sunk 60+ hours into this game. This is a must play videogame. No questions about it.
Can''t tell how disappointed I am with this game, despite it is not fun most of the time I played this it til the very end to try giving it chance but after seeing zero improvement in gaming experience I just decided to delete it without finishing it, its too boring to play this game with a story of no weight and random repetitive boss that just randomly one-shot you from time to time. Not a single second I am feeiing this is a fromsoftware game, they never design such one-shot kill system in the past but in this game its everywhere, fully reflecting they just didn't spend much time to balance the difficulty settings, which considered they already had so many boss almost direct copy and paste from previous dark souls game, is beyond acceptable. The combat mechanics is also bad that its simply not fun and not challenging but totally unfair, not withstanding the fact that lagging and unresponsive input that is hardly accpetable as a ps5 game (I finished nioh2 with platinum so dun argue with me I am not good enough, this is simply not a well designed and configured game). I dun know how anyone could put higher than 6 in this game. The only thing perhaps make ppl think this is good game is probably we haven't had a fully open world ARPG game like skyrim for too long. But dun get me wrong, this is no skyrim and I would say skyrim in many cases is even more challenging than this game. This game is just a joke.
One of the best games I've ever played. I liked it even more for being a souls like.
Roll and hit, or how the developers are calling it - Elden ring, will go down in history as one of the most overrated games of all time! We live in times when people are voting being manipulated by the majority, 0 credibility! If you are a dark souls fan you will definitely enjoy this game because it gives you an open world map with a lot of things to discover. If you are not a souls fan and you are jumping into this game it's a 70% chance you might hate it, the gameplay has an pretty standard mechanic, roll and hit. The graphics are not next gen by far, a mediocre 4/10, as for the story where George RR Martin came as a savior for this genra, well it's like the last season from Games of thrones - epic fail. Wrap all these together and you get yourself a Dark souls 4 game with an open world, where everything is gloomy, dark and depressing, and there you go, you have Elden ring.Cheers to those Souls fan who keep this trash so highly rated Judge by the fan base people will vote this crap even if it's literally a
An absolute masterpiece. FromSoftware's magnum opus. While the lack of questline handholding may be offputting for some players, it forces you to engage in the story to solve puzzles and experience the grandeur to its fullest. GOTY
This is easily one of the best games I've ever played. Releases in a finished state and no micro transactions. This is what gaming is all about.
Any studio looking to make an Open-World game needs to take a nice long look at Elden Ring. Over 150 hours in and there is still so much for me to do, even after finishing the main story. The side quests have interesting stories, beautiful scenery, rewarding reasons to complete them, give access to new areas that are beautifully created, and access to new characters you will fall in love with. (I love you, Blaidd.) Never have I been so encapsulated in a game, not since I was much younger. This game is a marvel, it's a dream come true, it's a masterpiece. Elden Ring is—without a doubt—one of THE greatest video-games to ever be released. Truly a brilliant creation, I am glad to have been able to experience it.
A masterpiece made by From Software, they have created not only the best open world game ever, but also the best game ever made. This is a game that everyone should try. Collapse
10/10 absolute amazing grahpic, content, gameplay, storyline, level design and bgm. A must-play for everyone and already and will be my GOTY 2022 (tho it is just March now!)
Immaculate, well built, and rewards curiosity, but it's unfortunately not fun, overstays its welcome, and seems to get more of a kick torturing you with some fights / mechanics than creating something enjoyable. Far from the perfect game, but too interesting not to experience yourself.
It's a good game, but it has a ton of issues. The bosses, the visuals the atmosphere are all great as usual, very distinct very interesting, combat is fun as always, the rpg elements are expanded greatly and there are some great quality of life improvements as well. But the open world is a huge miss in my experience it's great in theory and sometimes it really WOWs you, but it's also full of emptyness, copy paste dungeons and many more bugs than usual. It also causes this weird dynamic where you have to guess if you're the right level for each given encounter even on the main path which causes a very weird difficulty curve. The game also has pretty long walk and loadtimes on death. These 2 together waste so much time, you either commit to practicing the boss with sometimes minutes of downtime between attempts or you go and grind on the side. It's not difficult, it's tedious. The game also gives you a ton of tools to help you deal with bosses like summons upon summons, crazy spells, ashes and weapons etc which makes the game feel even less consistant in difficulty. There are also technical issues like bosses freezing up, constant stuttering, floor disappearing, map not loading, very long loadtimes, hit detection issues, crashes, dying upon reloading your save etc. I feel like fromsoft games started going in the right direction with bloodborne and sekiro, but elden ring takes a very different angle. It feels like where bloodborne and sekiro cut fat off and refined the formula, elden ring just put it back 2 fold. It's still a good game and it's going to entertain both souls fans and people new to these games, but I think the issues are pretty big and warrant a high-mixed review.
Elden ring is a true masterpiece. If you enjoy video games you will enjoy this game simple as that.
My first souls-like. Yes, it's blisteringly hard, but I trudged through that first wall and now enjoy it much more. Laughing at the insane ways I die endlessly. Sure there's rage quitting and yelling at the TV, but it's not long before I'm **** back in. I've never noticed how open worlds can just be full of fetch quests and marker to marker traversal until this game actually made me take in the surroundings and interact with the world by remembering the locations I'm too underpowered for. Do I need to repeat the same hallway 1,000 times because some knight can swing an overpowered sword 896 degrees regardless of which way I roll across the floor? Probably not. What about "fighting" a random three bookworms every time Rennala spams some magic ****. Or watching animations of the guy that killed me for way too long after I died? Seems excessive. Still fun, for the most part.
Masterpiece! One of the best games ive ever played! Its dark souls open world! I love it
Hands down, this is one of the best games i have ever played. Yes, it is hard, but you always have the option to go somewhere else and come back stronger. There is A LOT to discover and after a few hours you lose track of the main path and just go wherever you feel like. For me this works perfectly. The goal of this game is not to rush through the main path, but to explore the beautiful and HUGE open world with its‘ secrets and side content. I have played for 78 hours now and have beaten 4 major Bosses and i still have a lot to discover. Gameplay is also just 10/10 with its‘ variety auf playstyles und different Bosses. Btw play the build you like and play the game just like you wanna play it. There is no right or wrong way to play this game.
Because the great map.............................................................
No English version for Thailand or SEA. I have purchased one with Chinese language for all texts. I am frustrated.
I finished the game twice and have no clue what the story is, new game plus is a joke. Most bosses feel and look a like with their attacks unlike darksouls 3 where you had a lot of varitiy. The open world works and it also doesn't at the same time. Give me smaller area's over overcomplicated and empty area's any day. A 7 seems fair also melena and the godskin duo are unfair bosses that need to be redesigned.
It’s just amazing. The exploration, the bosses, the world they all feel amazing. If you didn’t like the souls games because of the difficulty you might like this game it gives you more freedom to do whatever you want. Again it’s amazing
Classic. Epitome of souls like and character action vidya no joke no cap, fxxk all the sore bxtts
I barely ever write reviews, but felt the need to leave one for this game. The reason for this is not that I want to tank the game; far from it. However, I bought this game strictly because of its absurdly high critics score and ended up spending 100$ on a game I would not have bought had I known it was just as inaccessible as classic Souls games.. Indeed, even if I am not generally a fan of the Souls like genre, I assumed that a nearly perfect review score meant that this was a game for everyone. I was severely disappointed Now, it's not that I instantly dislike any game from this genre. I LOVED Star Wars : Fallen Order (can't wait for the sequel) and I had a love/hate relationship with Returnal (loved the story and concept but thought the frustrating gameplay was unnecessary). Elden Ring started out fine. Being an RPG fan first and foremost I loved the character customization options, as well as the diversity of classes, stats and skills (even though it is a lot to take in all at once). The story is intriguing at first, as the opening does not give you a lot of information but does seem to set up an interesting premise. The disappointment, however, essentially started there for me. You venture out into the world, with no real story narrative. I roamed from one uninteresting enemy group to another, simply grinding to get stronger. This grind is incredibly tedious as combat with your average enemy is often monotonous and repetitive. Played the first boss, got killed 10 times straight, barely bringing it lower than 30% of its health. At this point I ask myself: is it the inherent difficulty of the game or is it that my character is too weak? In doubt, I venture back into the open world, grinding through boring enemies for a few hours before coming back to the boss. I try it 10 times more, exact same result. I go back to grinding for a few hours, and finally completely lose interest. This game REALLY wasn't for me. Now I really do understand that, for hardcore fans of the Soulslike genre, this might be the perfect game. Quite obviously, most review sites clearly handed the review for this game to the most hardcore of these fans they had on staff, which explains the scores. However, most gamers are not such fans of the genre, as it does have a very particular style that is not everyone. I wouldn't call it "niche", there are too many for such a restrictive term, but we are far from the generalized popularity of more classical genres. Therefore, the review I'm writing is from the perspective of someone who is open to the genre, but not necessarily a fan of it.. The 6 I am giving this game is mostly for its visual qualities. I love the setting, the attention to details, the ambiance. You really feel as tough you are transported to another universe. I, however, did not enjoy much beyond that. As I mentioned before, combat, to me, was either way too hard or too easy, ultimately becoming uninteresting on either ones of these extremes. I usually don't mind banging my head against a difficulty wall until it breaks if there is motivation to push though. However, the narrative is so thin that I wasn't engrossed in the story, and, actually, the hours of getting killed and doing boring world fights dilutes it even further as the few narrative parts are stretched farther and farther away. To me, these games should have two scores. One for fans and one for the rest of us. I guess give it a 10/10 for fans, but, t me, it barely made 6/10. I would say don't buy if you're not really sure.
Tons of quality of life issues, performance is poor (tons of FPS drops on any platform), pop-in is all over the place and the world feels pretty empty and co-op is broken, graphical fidelity is also poor for 2022. Why can't from soft just allow people to play together consistently, this isn't 10 years ago where this was acceptable, the network is broken and co-op is just a pain in the ass. Over the years being a huge souls fan, i've been lenient with From Soft and hoped they would improve upon many things but they refuse particularly because reviewers are too nice to them. They deserve criticism not 10's. Anyways, this feels like dark souls 3 but open world, the world is made well but this is not innovative and feels samey. I hope From Soft becomes more ambitious rather than just making an open world.
This is by far the worst game I’ve played in 25 years. I am level 105 and put 80 hours into it. I’ve only played this long because I am stubborn and didn’t want to spend $60 on a game and not complete it. Playing this game is like intentionally joining a multiplayer lobby full of hackers/aimbots in a game like call of duty. It’s an extremely unfair, frustrating and often futile experience. Do not play this, especially if you have anger issues. Also let’s not reward Sony and the multiple corrupt game journalists who gave this a 10/10. If you’re looking into this game because of the lore, be aware that it’s a bait-and-switch scheme. The lore is incoherent, badly explained, and the very rare NPCs you can interact with do not even move. You should only buy this if you enjoy : - Getting killed by almost every enemy in the game in 1-3 hits, no matter your level/armor (not exaggerating) - Being forced to roll/dodge/block multiple combos from bosses before you can safely hit them a couple times, and repeat this 100 times because bosses have 30x your health. - Unforgiving roll/i-frame timing, with zero reward for getting it right since almost every enemy attack is part of a combo that can change randomly - Even more unforgiving timing for parrying, with a janky stagger to critical hit QTE which does not trigger half the time. Furthermore, it's not clear which attacks can be parried. I guess the devs expect you to die 50 times per boss to find out for yourself, seems to be their plan for pretty much everything in the game. - Absolutely laughable collision models which will cause you to miss enemies that you literally can’t get any closer to (for example because their foot prevents you from getting close enough to hit their stomach) - Dying to hits/slashes/strikes that missed you by 6+ feet (not exaggerating, i have multiple videos of that happening), or that have lingering hitboxes for 1 second or more, even on non-AoE attacks - Balance that’s all over the place, you’ll constantly swing between thinking you’re overleveled, crushing everything in your path, and suddenly the difficulty level will explode, leaving zero room for error (and enjoy spending 1-2 minutes running back to most bosses between each attempts) - Pathetic and confusing UI and ergonomics, especially when it comes to the map, menus and descriptions. Also, I want to point out that i tried writing a more detailed review of why I disliked the game. 3500 characters, but Metacritic kept rejecting it with a 404 error. Guess Sony padded their wallet as well.
From Software's new Masterpiece, this game is really stunning. Its a true evolution coming from each game, DS, BloodBorne and Sekiro!
Great game, but have some **** 10/10, but over 9. This patch make me angry, new quests after under a month?
Let's be clear, it's the goty 2022 and as such a lot of people will complain about it. The DA, the gameplay and the open world are irreprochable, the majors issues are the optimisation on PC and some donjons with copy/paste boss (it's the downside to have a OW so large that's you can't fill it with only original mobs). If you are a fan of the fromsoft games, you can go with eyes closed and if you are not, it's also a great game to start the souls-like experience (you have a lot of tool to make the game easier).
+ The lore , world building , characters are still really cool and mysterious + There's still a ton of builds you can make and experiment with adding to the replayability + Some extremely cool looking locations + The occasional great boss fight + Dynamic weather is really nice . I love it when it starts to rain out of nowhere + Better checkpoints before boss fights (For the most part) - Even by Souls standards the story is really incoherent - Too many asset flip side bosses and dungeons which is a by product of the world being needlessly huge - Progression is slow to incentive you to explore but because of the above it gets really tiresome and repetitive fast so thank god for exploits - Many times the difficulty corelates to what a cheap jumpscare does for a horror game . It gets the job done but it's artificial (Bosses spazzing out , aim bot , gank squads , one shots etc.) - Jankiness , input delay , poor clipping and bad camera during large scale boss fights - Frustrating without a guide especially when it comes to quests and knowing where items are - Too dependent on farming , meta items and ashes of war to carry you . This was true in past games as well but it never felt like a requirement In both a positive and negative way Elden Ring did nothing that I did not expect and unsurprisingly people twist the games negatives into positives like they always tend to do . It also suffers from the exact same issues Dark Souls 2 did , the open world did nothing for me personally and in case you gave a rats ass no I don't consider Elden Ring to be a masterpiece but in a sea of garbage nowadays it sure appears like one
What an amazing game, currently pumped in 37 hours and haven't even completed half the things I've found, let alone the rest of the story. Gonna be playing this for a while.
I love the open world adventure that is Elden Ring. Excellent game. Really love it!
have fun playing it and i really recommend it, but my 6 is because the massive copy pasta of previous games and bosses. If you have played previous FS games, you will find that bosses have the same patterns, animations, models etc of souls games, there are no new mechanics. They put everything in previous souls games into a open world game, marketed as the creator of game of thrones did the story and there you go, easy money... The game is good but is so overrated, the game still lacks of story and narrative as previous soul games, boring and recycled fights , they are just hard and that's it.
Game of the year.!!!Congrats Fromsoftware.Maybe other developers can take some notice on how to make games. :)
FromSoftware is kings like allways!! Amazing 10/10. Open world is just epic.
Wow! Just…. Wow. I have no words for how absolutely amazing this game is. To whoever may be reading this, buy it right now! I promise you won’t regeret it!
If you beat Malenia with a mimic tear or spells... no you didn't, go back and do that fight like an adult. Joking aside this game does what I thought to be nearly impossible - it makes a truly open world game with relatively minimal repetition, amazing level design, and consistently engaging content, all while not completely destroying the balancing (Unlike Breath of the Wild). Art direction is dope as always, enemies are goddamn hell-nightmares as always, and this has some insanely cool looking boss fights. BOTW 2 better do something crazy because it's boutta feel DRY AS **** after Elden Ring. The existance of this game should yeet BOTW from every "best of" list from here on out. I don't wanna hear about that game any more. Elden Ring does what Zeldon't. There's more variety in Limgrave than there is in the entirety of BOTW.
Game is so much fun, like Breath of The Wild and Dark Souls fused together. The world is very immersive paired with From Software challenging combat
So much hype so little difference from any other souls like game I've played outside of the graphics (marginally better) and bosses. As had been said before if this was Dark Souls 4 it might have made more sense but the professional reviews here are just people trying to live up to the hype train which seriously under delivered. This game brings nothing new to the table it's just an updated rehash of things we've seen before.
This is one of the best games I have ever played. The scale of the world and amount of content is unmatched by anything out right now. The game punishes you for not preparing, never holds you hand, and allows each player to craft their own path. I was amazed at how much different our characters were when I played co op with friends. We all took totally different paths and found our own unique weapons and gear along the way. Do yourself a favor and play this game blind without looking up guides. It takes a lot longer but far more rewarding in my opinion. I’m 100 hours in and still haven’t seen the entire map. Do not listen to these 0 scores, these are salty gamers that didn’t put the time in to learn and get good at the game. Even if the game is not your style, you have to admire the masterpiece these developers created.
Fantastic game with so many viable builds. The world is huge and the detailed with a minimalist take on questing, letting you really make your own adventure. The difficulty is much more approachable due to the open world structure but you still have to "git gud".
Wow, Fromsoft yet again stepping up the game again with this genre defining title. Were initially i was feeling quite skeptical about the open world, however it sold me when I reached the first of many legacy dungeons. the combat shines again, maybe less refined than a title like Sekiro, however still holds its own above most others in the genre. The level design in the legacy dungeons is carefully thought out and expertly organized in a interconnected maze, however the smaller dungeons often leave me wanting a better system. The Boss fights again are amazing, showing off a wide variety of designs and styles, however the repeated bosses and "gank" bosses often are frustrating, to what otherwise is almost a perfect experience. The visual design is again at times breathtaking, however its not the best looking of the ps5 generation, however more than passable! This is probably the most accessible of the Fromsoft games, with the most options ever for newcomers (Use magic ;)), and this is probably why it has gained the biggest following yet for a Fromsoft game. Would definitely recommend for people curious or interested in the series but have always been to nervous to try!
I really love this game. However the end game is so imbalanced that I started to have negative fun. The mob placement and mob damage is all over the place. Yet almost every boss at end game can be 1 shotted without summons or help. Up until then the experience was perfect though.
Very fun, it is the most fun game I have played in the open world, the plot is rich and full, the picture is very good
I have never beat Souls/borne games but this one... After 133 hours of gameplay I have finished it and can finally say F.U to the Lord of blood…. Elden Ring is very immersive, you are in an awe with those majestic looking vistas. The character designs in this game are very well done, it kinda reminds me of Castlevania but has a punishing difficulty. The game is very difficult I think this is the most hardest RPG’s that I’ve play yet. It takes a lot of your time grinding you character to farm runes. Runes serves as currency in the game but also serve as experience to level your character. The game wants you to be patient and calm but sometimes those nerves will really get you, specially when you keep dying from an enemy/boss or an obstacle. Exploration is really what’s good about this game you can find more hidden secrets and areas just by exploring. Also there are no markers to the next destination for the main story line , I have to go search a wiki out of it just to finished the story. This game isn’t perfect it also shares annoying technical issues with other games like the camera. -The camera is one of your enemy when you are locking on to a target specially big ones it creates a weird angle that you can’t see enemies poise or the stance what strike it will do. -Another one is the wall, enemies strikes sometimes can pass through a wall, even if that enemy is behind the other side of the wall, like your hit box is really wide that walls cant stop enemies from hitting you. -Lastly and the most annoying is the delay response of controls whenever you are dodging and rolling or jumping specially when you are locking on to a target it sometimes doesn’t do what you want to do whether to dodge or jump or worst it gets delayed when you suppose to hit the enemies opening but your character keeps rolling because of the delay. I have a love and hate relationship with this game sometimes I just want to give up, because some certain enemies are annoyingly difficult. I almost broke my keyboard because of rage. If you want to play this game and you are up to the challenge. Here is a tip , magic spells or attacks are OP in this game, during my playthrough I build my character as a battle mage I used every weapon or magic spells that I could find that has more damage just to beat this game. Also read a wiki if it doesn’t really hurt your ego.
Another great game by From Software. Spiritually Dark Souls 4 with a new name, but in a good way with lots of new features and abilities like jumping! Great art style with crazy enemy designs. The only negative has been the unstable framerate but not so bad as to make it unplayable.
Return the store to Russia. You violate the rights of gamers. And your reputation has become worse than it was in the entire history of your company.
Elden ring has truly taken me in its firm grip. I don't even remember the last time a video game has had that effect on me. Maybe Skyrim but that's besides the point. Elden ring takes the good stuff from previous From software titles and adds on it. The open world works incredibly well and the game never loses that which makes a souls game great. Elden ring can be extremely difficult but so rewarding. And if you get frustrated it's easy to go do something else. Controls feel like dark souls 3 and that's a good thing in my opinion. If I have to find some negative aspect, the dungeons can feel a bit repetitive. All in all, I would say this very well could be a game of the decade. Easy 10/10.
FromSoftware has excelled itself, crafting one of the finest open-world experiences I have ever had the ..don't let the supposed difficulty put you off. Give Elden Ring a chance
This is the most beautiful Game of of Fromsoft a real Masterpiece you can feel the spirit of every Dark souls but mixed with Zelda gameplay and this become the best Game ever i hope Miyazaki and Fromsoft give us another game like this
To call it the best game ever made feels like an understatement, it's near perfect game design. Between this and Bloodborne From Software hold the 1 and 2 spots of best games of all time!
For the major souls entry newbies. Buy it u won’t regret. Here for all souls hardcore, I think u all will agree this: Really Fk this game. I’m a big souls fan and DS3 is my favourite games in history. How the fk, can they do this? Literally, except from Melania, there is not a good single boss fight. Either it is unbalanced or it is full poorly designed as trying to read your controller input. WTF, I’m so done with it as I love souls and I wanted a souls with proper boss fight not fking spamming L2 but learn pattern and doge properly. Fk u FS why for the FK sake just to compliment for the major casual player base? To sell more? Fk u FS really, don’t tell me the fking dlc bosses will be again this bad.
EDITED after 108 hours of play time: Besides some little performance issues on PS5 which are now fixed, I'd say that this game is okish: exploring is rewarding even thou the enemies are repeated too often, some sub bosses are fun but they are the same ones you already faced over and over in the ****, it's fun to roam around and discover new things but after a while youìve seen it all. Regarding the"real" bosses of the game, some are ok but others are utterly broken: bad hit boxes, their damage is just insane no matter how "good" or protected you are, oh and they can be easily broken by using a magic build with comet Azur + mimic ash +10. It is a dark souls 3 with some open world mechanics, programmed in the same engine of few years ago. 7,5/10 is my final score.
I like the diversity of this game And the addition of the open world is beautiful, and there is a beautiful diversity in the Dungeon
Awesome game. Best from software game so far. Can’t wait to see what comes next.
Clearly the best game I ever played and I started in 1987 on master system! Some minor problems such as assets being reused a bit to often but the world is so big you can t blame them.... And performance could be better / less clipping... But honestly, this is just nothing compared to the experience itself.
The only thing I have negative to say is the frame rate issues on the PS5 probably should have been fixed prior to release. Absolutely everything else about this game is fantastic, the world, the lore, the huge range of viable playing styles. In a world most game are delivered broken and unfinished I am amazed the solid state this is in on release, and inspiration for all developers IMO.
End game is a mess, otherwise pretty great. Bosses need returned badly on the last 1/3rd of the game though
Elden Ring is phenomenal for anyone who considers themselves a fan of the Soulsborne series. It does have a heavy learning curve and can frustrate newer players but give it a chance and hopefully you will also see how amazing this game really is.
This is not a 10/10, but a solid 9/10. Most of the people that are displeased are frustrated by the difficult combat but each encounter is a chance to learn. The world has the most personality in any open world game I have ever played. You can see the castles in the distance that you can visit, very similar to Breath of the Wild. You can build your character the way you want, you can play the way There is no hand holding here, you have to learn. I'd you want something laid back, this is not for you and might possibly be why some people provide negative **** want.
EXTREMELY OVERHYPED GAME. Not sure what the appeal is, the game feels extremely dated, feels like a ps2 game at best, the combat is horrible and the grind is unreal. Story is starts and develops the exact same way as previous "soul" games. spend your time elsewhere, Horizon, and even Ghost of tsushima are way better games.
Literally every single streamer says this game is so good, critic say it as well, the only haters that you find are those which dont know how to play a proper well done challenging game so they send their heads into enemies like np or cant think in a way for defeat an enemy other than just press attack plus the ones suffered fps drop or technical issue...very dumb delusional people The hype lived for it, this game looks like a BotW or RDR2 (for mention good open world games )but in real harder mode It has a really good story which isnt spoonfed to you, you literally have to talk to NPCs or read item descriptions for get the info, the art is amazing the first thing you will see when start is that big golden tree which will just make you want to take a good picture, gameplay gives you freedom to walk to almost whatever place you want some places must be opened with stuff you must find or defeat but you have the freedom of when, combat is really solid the hitbox is amazing if the enemy is big and use a sword hit and you being in front it wont hit you because the sword might slice above your head insteand of your head or body, design is great it really makes you want to wander around and find stuff for lore or fun, its really a masterpiece indeed, its really solid UNLESS you are the kind of those guys which ''hate souls games alike because you just play shooters or ez mode games where dying is the harder thing to accomplish in the game'' or if sadly will suffer from FPS drop in your PC, you will love this game You wont find any other ''excuse'' to hate it, best game in so long definately GOTY
I really like this game, without the bugs and performance issues. if you want to play this game to do it, you will enjoy from this one.
Elden Ring has story, a beautiful open world with next generation art design And graphics. The controls and action are smooth, and there are loads of content to keep players exploring while developing and honing the skills to survive in the unforgiven Lands of Between
Genuinely an amazing game, very hard but no **** it's the main brand of fromsoftware. Its flawless, even if you don't like how tough it is, doesn't make it any less the best game of the year already.
Such a great game! Big and full of open world awaits for you! I can highly recommend
I’ve never been a fan of the Souls games and everyone was ranting about how accessible this game is compared to the others so I gave it a shot. Well nope. Same Souls **** with cheap deaths, overpowered bosses, and clunky feeling controls. I value my precious gaming time too much to waste it smashing my face up against brick wall after brick wall.
What can i say it great get it on PC. yes it super hard you get your money worth no micro good old fashion single player game.
Very disappointed the video games press said this is a RPG but it is just a Dark Souls 4 with an empty open world they made this game for the Darls Souls fans only, the press said this is the game of the year but they lied again
Copy & paste bosses throughout the game, every boss except 3. Bosses copied from other souls games, & the AI & hit boxes are terrible. The input lag is really bad, yet few souls players call out from software about this. Maybe delusional players, because they love the " challenge" of a truly broken game.
Well, after 88 ingame hours and finishing the game yesterday, I think I have fair grounds to review this game. Firstly, my only 'soulsborne' games I played before Elden Ring are Dark Souls 3 and Demon's Souls remake. What I liked about those two was that it felt really refreshing and just something new/different from the usual AAA games. The open world RPG genre came to a point where every game felt the same. '?' markers on the map to tell you where to go, being spoon fed the lore with 30-40% of your playtime being dialogue. Quest logs that felt like you were ticking off your laundry list. Generally, being held by your hands the entire time. Soulsborn games just throw you into a world and let the world do the talking. You discover the story all by yourself by pieceing together the things you see and find. Whenever you find a NPC that talks to you it's something special and you cling to their mouths. Elden Ring takes this formula and improved it even more by letting you decide where to go. Every area is filled with dungeons, caves, ruins that tell from a time past. When you encounter an enemy you can't defeat you can always come back later and not be stuck there like in prior Soulsborn games. The combat style is very unique and challenging. You decide if you want to be the big tanky guy with a big hammer that can take some hits or be the agile dual-wielding katana guy that slashes through enemies. Or a Sorcerer that wields powerful spells and attacks from a distance. So many possibilities to choose from. I've seen a lot of reviews saying there is no story and the world is empty. These people are used to being spoon fed the story and being guided by markers on the map. You have to actually play the game to discover something . Crazy right? The more you play, the more you understand the story because you progress through it. In other games the 6 Minute intro tells you everything you need to know about the story and the rest is just bonus dialogue. There are several endings in this game, giving players even more control over how the story turns out and who you want to be in this **** world. On PS5 I've had no technical issues whatsoever. Not a single crash. The only bug that I discovered was a clipping error which let you see through a wall in Raya Lucaria Academy. I didn't play online or coop that much but I can say that it feels really nice being able to summon other players if you need help. What feels even better is helping other people out when they need help. Multiplayer works great, summoning takes just a few seconds and I never had any connectivity problems. The only thing why I can't give it a 10 is because From Software enabled trolling a little bit too hard. With messages being able to be placed right in front of ladders for example. That way you always accidentally open the message instead of climbing the ladder. If you're in a hurry and want to escape an enemy stuff like that can get you killed. You can however just play offline and none of that will bother you. Also death blight trolls who can team kill you. All-in-all, super polished game with potentially 80-120h of fun. This might not be a game for everyone, yes. But in my opinion the best game to get into the Soulsborn genre. I would recommend it to everyone who wants to have a fresh breeze, a game that truly feels different from all the other triple A games.
Absolutely outstanding game. The game has been developed with affection on every detail. Is the map from DS1, joined with the bosses of DS3 in an open world where every inch of the map hides a secret that will blow your mind. 10/10 recommended
I rate 3 because although this was my favorite game and the only game that had me going crazy but after they nerfed everything good about being a samurai it just ruined all my fun I will no longer be playing due to the unbalance of classes time for everyone to be a mage
Played and always loved the the Demon / Dark Souls games. Elden Ring is for me the best game i ever played cause i love open world, RPGs and Souls games. It combines all perfectly together! That you have to listen to NPCs and explore the world is probably strange for newcomers, also for PC players that they should use a game pad. But if you get used to that it's awesome!
Seems metacritic won't let me post a 3k character review. I'm getting tired of this. Easiest From game ever. Made to pander to casuals. Released unfinished. Lots of laziness and copypasting of content.
Not as good as people claimed. Gets boring and repetitive fast. Main focus is grinding Runes. Attack, dodge, attack, dodge. Some boss you don't really know why you are fighting. Story becomes unnecessary and forgotten. End goal of the Gomes is basically to level och and kill the next boss. Then repeat
Meh. I decided to give it a go because it was said that it's a different approach, utilising open world etc but it's just another Souls game. The monster designs are great but take away the difficulty and it's just a Hack and Slash with mediocre story and bland environments, just like its predecessors.
I loved every second of it. It is just the perfect Soulsgame. Sure, there are some troubles with grass appearing a lil bit late but you got no microtransactions, the game is so huge with so many stuff to miss (yeah EA, you can fill up a game with no dlcs and make many missable areas just for fun!)... Fromsoft didnt promised anything and hell, they deliverd! I am just amazed by the game and start speedrunning now.
I cannot even describe how massive and beautiful this game is! How engaging and partially challenging it gets. The game gives you some clues, hints towards the story or exploration, everything else you have to figure out on your own. A pretty old-school approach to gaming. Whether you are a Souls/From Software fan or not, you should give it a try. It is a completely different experience from what you can get in most of the modern titles. Highly recommended.
Note I did beat Dark Souls 3 with DLC, and about 3/4th of Demons Souls Remake. Game feels clanky, kinds reminds me of Demons Souls. I thought Elden Ring was supposed to be a brand new series/game, not a Dark Souls 4. I've bear the first 2 bosses and I just felt stressed the whole time. I only recommend this game to people who already played and mastered the Souls games of the past.
souls games that is both more user friendly to a wide margin of people, and also harder than the other games depending on how you go about it.
I have no idea how this overhyped garbage is selling so well. I genuinely am boggled out of my mind. The graphics and mechanics wouldn’t have been okay if this was released in 2016 let alone 2022!!!! Wtf is up with the standards of people. They continuously get lower and the gaming companies notice. They don’t sell underdeveloped garbage just because they want to, they know they can and some weirdo will still rate it a 10/10. Pathetic excuse ****.
If really like what fromsoftware have done in the past, congratulations it an amazing game ahead. Because they took every incredible elments in past games and mix them in this game and added some unique things as well like the summons (Pokémon)
Hate seeing this anywhere below atleast a 9. But it's an easy 10/10 for me. I created an account just to help this game's ratings. I'm 80 hours in and I can safely say it's the best game I've ever played. As a 30 year old man, it makes me feel like a kid again, even just thinking about playing it after work! If we are comparing games, this is objectively a 10/10. So majestical and mysterious. Dark cosmic horror mixed with open world medieval buildings. Different enemies, different locations, it just never gets old. I honestly don't know how I'm ever gonna play another "Ubisoft like" title again. The industry better step it's game up! Fingers crossed.
No microtransaction, no live service, just a Brutal game in an epic fantasy world with one of the best pvp systems a must play.
Culmination of elements from previous titles. Probably their best game to date due to its vast open world and things to see and doz with some truly memorable boss encounters.
Does not have a clear quest line or perpus. It drop you in a open world and does not tel you anything or point you to your you should go.
After over 150 hours in, completing the main story and the vast majority of side content, falling in love with this world and then slowly but surely growing to hate it I can say with absolute certainty that in my opinion this is from softwares worst game. I know that is a bold statement and giving this game such a low score seems extreme but hear me out because this isn’t just some review bomb. I’m a souls vet, I have played every from software game still available, I have played and replayed DS1, DS2(only twice because yeah no
Best game that has been released yet. Very addicting a very large game, good graphics overall and gameplay is amazing
Great game. The exploring aspect is really fun and th combat smoother than ever (excluding Sekiro). Also, the build variety is huge. What I didn't like that much were the side dungeons (caves,catacombs etc). Some of them are interesting to explore but most of them are boring and become repetitive later on. Another thing I didn't enjoy that much are the bosses. The side bosses become boring fast because you fight them over and over again and in many occasions. Most main bosses are fine but they can't be compared to the ones in Dark Souls 3 by my opinion. Malenia is the only one in the main game that is insanely difficult to defeat and Mogh which offers a great challenge. I think everything else is mid to easy in difficulty. It took me 85 hours to beat the game doing almost everything so it's pretty long. I highly recomend it.
Just when I think I have finished exploring the entire game world, I come face to face with an entirely new area. But yeah I would have loved the story to be little more cryptic like the Dark Souls games and Bloodborne. Nevertheless, it's a new world and so much to do and so many optional bosses.
Basically is a dark souls but open world, also good to come near the franchise, I have a friend of mine who started the souls series with it and fall in love with the game
So overrated. It's basically an insanely difficult, repetitive grind fest where you get to do the same tasks over and over and over and over and over again. It will **** hours from you with very little reward. For adults who have other things to do in life, it's a big waste of time.
degradation of the project starting from DS3, technically sharpened to defeat, it's not a matter of skill, the game adapts to the player, that is, it deceives him ....
Nothing but praise to this game. To "dive in" the open-world genre and delivering a masterpiece out of the bat without ever sacrificing their souls roots is nothing but a work of genius. Boss fights, secrets, dungeons, fortresses, creativity and the challenge... if that doesn't entice you then I don't know what will.
After about 8 hours of getting the gyst of it. This is my absolute favorite game since a long time. This is also my very first Souls-Bourne game. Took me about 62 hours to complete my first playthrough. So much to do and explore. There is also NO MICROTRANSACTIONS.
Amazing game, GOTY for sure. Easily the best souls game. Not sure what people are review bombing this game for.
This game attempts to marry open-world and souls-like design and tragically fails at both, being lesser than the sum of its parts. There's no incentive to explore unless you're grinding, as the world is too big to be interesting, instead full of copy-pasted environments and enemies, and the only reward for exploration is useless crafting materials and weapons you don't want. The game is very poorly paced and balanced. I could go on for pages, but will spare you with brevity.
This is how you make an open world game, leaving everything to the players, to scourge the endless possibilities and lore that lurk deep within the game. It is a world where the more effort you put in, the better it gets, the more you enjoy, the more you are rewarded and most importantly, every single second of the delving is worth it.
I am a long term player of games but this game was a first I have played from "Fromsoftware Inc" I really hate the game no real instructions. Tried every class and really can not beat anything and when u die everything just respawns and u have to start all over big waste of time. I wish I did not get **** into buying this waste going back to playin Horizon Dawn Forbidden West a very great game.
Elden RIng is my favorite FromSoftware game to date, The lands between has defined a new milestone in open world games design. the world that they have created shows how much importance does have the art design in a game rather than just "graphical" quality. The UI is intuitive, it let you absorb the feelings of the world that they have masterfully crafted. Combat is exciting and precise as ever. A win in all departments
Yes this is the one of a few games that i give a 10/10 score, I never been a Dark soul or Demon soul fan, not because of the difficulty (I love challenging game and I'm a big fan of Sekiro) but because how slow the movement is, and no jump!!!, it just not my cup of tea. I love Sekiro, challenging, awesome combat system, awesome bosses (so sad that there is no dlc for it) so when Elden ring came, I was really considering should I order it or not, and in the end I gave a try. So? it is awesome, every complaints about Dark soul now is gone in Elden ring, the movement feel so smooth and you can jump (awesome). The world is beautiful, the graphic to be honest not at next level, but it is still beautiful, every lands, dungeons and runes are unique, the combat system is great, still I miss the posture and parry mechanic from Sekiro ( you can still parry if you get the right shield or weapon). Elden ring open world is one of the best period imo, you can explore every placer before the story route, even some of the area at the end game can be even explored very early, so it is also a very forgiving soul like game compare to previous From soft games. It's been a while since I was so into a game like this, spent around 60 hrs already, and this is easily GOTY for me, I downloaded this together with Horizon forbidden west in PS5 and after playing Elden ring, i feel Horizon is a bit boring now even I love Zero dawn (sorry Horizon fan). It has some optimization issue for pc but after some update now it is much better. After playing this game, I'm a big fan of From soft now can't wait for them to release some DLC for it.
I love souls games and from software games but in a 2022 game to be so technically bad i didnt expect it. Worst dodge roll input and generally key/button input i have ever experience especially when its always life or death. You have so much fast enemys that can one hit you. You hit button or a combo of buttons not only once and have so much delay that your game does a completly different move or nothing at all. Of course i was expecting better ghraphics and fps in a 2022 game but in a fast pace game which with every mistakes you made you die i didnt expect such a bad input in controlling your character it is simply stupid.
Boring crap. I like single-player games because they have stories. This game has lore but no game story. Bosses are good and good challenge too. But I cannot like a game without a story. It is the best boring and empty open world in video games. Also game has outdated graphics.
I haven’t been as addicted to a games since DS2. Sunk around 70 hours into this game already! Looks amazing and there is so much variety of play-styles and progression routes!
as a big soulsborne fan, and finally finishing the game, i think i can give an honest review. first of all, it's a great game. it's a souls like game at it's best. and very approachable for new souls like players. it's fair because it begins difficult which will encourage you to explore the world and as a result, you will get stronger and game gets easier. the map is gorgeous, not only it's not empty, but also not flooded with random useless stuff. everything feels very well balanced. specially the dungeons and creatures which will reward you for with crafting materials and cool items. it's truly a solid game. BUT, allow me to give my humble opinion lol. i don't think it's a masterpiece ****. bugs and graphics has no matter to me. it will get fixed. it's childish to argue about that. art direction is also incredible and i have nothing to argue about. as always, the game stays loyal to it's own rules and i truly respect that. but i think my main problem with this game is, while it's really has a beautiful and artistic world design, it's bad at level design. maybe im biased. i don't know, you judge. i have played everything fromsoftware has offered and i believe they all are masterpieces. and i understand elden ring was a huge project. but it's still not an evolutionary game, in my opinion of course. but the levels are not handcrafted. it doesn't feel the same quality as the quantity is so large. also i feel like for such a large game, there are not enough memorable and bold boss fights, armaments, armor sets and etc. ( i may be so wrong at this part but at least it felt this way at the moment im writing this). in the end i want to say, i am not disappointed. but this game won't be in my heart in a few years, while all soulsborne games are eternally attached to my heart and soul. elden ring is a beautiful game with many lost opportunities. specially for it's multiplayer. think about it. for a game with such a large map. it could have pvp arenas, incredible covenants, hell, there could be a palace for each covenant. areas for getting invaded by certain covenants, etc. again, i totally understand the weight of this project on from software, and i appreciate and respect it none the less. but.. yeah. 96? i don't know.. let's wait and see how the game will be treated after a few months or even a year.
A beautifully fleshed-out open world. Unique art direction that can completely change your perception of the medievil aesthetic. Extremely well animated and satisfying combat.
Phenomenal game. I've put over 200 Hours in it and still missed a couple questlines in the first playthrough. The Ashes of War system is great and the Power-Stancing returning is awesome. Can't wait to hop back in with new builds. Only thing I would have liked is a few NG+ changes like Dark Souls 2 had, but I understand it would be harder to implement in a game of this size. You could complain about some bosses being reused but from lore perspective it makes sense. Some bosses that are reused have different status effects and more moves, so it's not like they're all the exact same. Game looks great graphically for a cross-generation game. Of course it's not going to look quite as good as Demon's Souls Remake because that was designed specifically for the PS5 and Demon's Souls is split into separate areas, not one open world. No FPS issues in all of my time playing. Wish people wouldn't review bomb games. **** isn't for you just accept that. Don't go around bashing games simply because they were too hard for you or not what you expected. Do some more research before you buy a game. I preordered because I knew what to expect from From Software after every Soulsborne game before it.
A game that will influence and become an inspiration for games moving forward.
This has to be one of the most overhyped and overrated games of the decade. This game has officially made me think there’s something seriously wrong with gaming journalism and media. I’m dumbfounded by the perfect scores this Game has garner. Games this hard are not fun! A life this hard is not fun. What if every little thing you did in life was literally torture. Well this is Elden Rings. First off the graphics are no where close to Demons Souls Remake on PS5. After playing Horizon Forbidden West on PS5, I’m in pure shock how bad the graphics are in Elden Rings. I was even more taken back by the frame rate. The graphics looks last gen in high resolution if not worst. The frame rate is not as smooth as you would expect especially if you’re used to 60 fps. The difficulty is also one of the biggest big turn offs. I’m sincerely not a fan of games as a torture. Games that make you want to throw your controller are not fun and will never be fun. Games should give you a sense of wonder and awe and Elden Rings fails to do this for me. The open world feels dead compared to Horizon Forbidden West. The world does not feel alive, Elden Rings feels empty and void of substance. Games should be fun, accessible and make you want to come back. Elden Rings feels like a total waste of money. I wish games like this would just die!
Haven't such a crappy copy/paste game in years, this game belongs to 2010 era. It is a milky way galaxy and someone needs to milk it right?
It's such an unfriendly game. I don't like to play while watching the strategy, but Eldenring is so unkind that it is impossible to progress the game without looking at the strategy. It's not just a question of difficulty. It's just too unkind. It's almost as unfriendly as a 90's game.
Elden Ring is a defining title in a Souls-borne series that takes everything FromSoftware has achieved in the previous games and makes it even better. FromSoftware is back with revolutionizing the gaming industry once again since the release of Demon Souls which happened 13 years ago and is giving us the best open-world title ever made with an amazing story and new great looking universe.
The first time I played the soul like game, it was really painful at the beginning. There was no task guidance, no prompts, and everything needed to be explored by the playerself. But as you play by yourself, you will discover that the world is huge and rich in content. It's very exciting to discover new gear and plots in a little bit of exploration. Killing powerful enemies is also very refreshing. PC optimization is really not very good, but I'm still willing to give full marks. This game really needs patience and enthusiasm, and it is not suitable for players who just want to relax and enjoy quickly.
Very great Game !! Exploring the world feels great , and the combat is very good. Beautiful Art Design.
ill be honest, i never know whats going on in these games but in my opinion it doesnt matter. by far the best fromsoft game to date.
The amount of people review bombing is so petty the games sales & love speak for themselves if its not for you its not for you but anything below a 7 is just petty man because of all this hate I seriously hope it can get game of the year just cause these petty people can't have it their way all the time
One of the best RPGs I’ve ever played. Super challenging and rewarding for those who want to give it a chance. definitely a must play.
The details of the game is crazily good. The storyline . The graphic . Everything is nicely done. This will be a part of my life. Thank you Fromsoftware.
The game has problems, it has but it has so many strengths that you forget about the problems. And just play and have fun for hours and hours. This is due to the freedom that the game gives the player, to make the journey as you want without a tutorial, without a lot of texts in your face telling you what you should do and I don't know what. This makes the game feel unique.
First half of the game is great if not perfect, with challenging but carefully crafted encounters. I believe most people could find some fun playing it for 20-50 hours. Then the critic, the second half could drag the rating down to hell. It feels like a change in design direction, in a bad way. The design reminds me of Nioh 1 and Dark Souls 2. Encounters are unfair when everything is hard to kill or stagger and could kill you in two hits ,some level design seems like a death of inspiration with mini-bosses everywhere reused as elite enemies and all the "weaker" enemies rather faking death or hiding at the corners. It's not that bad when I look back after finishing the game, but the overall experience was not that enjoyable.
Definetly the worst game from the soul series, as it even gets to be called a "soul series game" even though it pretends (or was marketed pretending to) be something new and different. It is not. The game is a poor mixture of Dark Souls 3, Bloodborne and Sekiro. It's absolutely generic, as it copies infinite secondary and mini-bosses from the previous games. The game is an eternal liop in a poor open word, boring and repetitive, with no plot (contrary to what was sold, using the name of George R. R. Martin). After all that, graphics were far better on Demon Souls. Even still, the game struggles to load scenarios, hardly runs smooth on 60 fps using the performance mode and has a lot of issues. For example, I had one boss, wich was so generic I can't remind his name, being sanding still at his final 10% of life waiting for me to put him out of misery (wich was probably being a part of this game). Never seen such an overrated game. I only recomend it if you are in for some dark souls copied gameplay, wich may be fun. Don't expect more than that.
Yeah I enjoyed this game. But I'm not sure I'm playing the same game that people are hyping it up to be.
I finished the game and platinum it; however, it has many flaws. My first main complaint with the game would be that after visiting an area and getting the item from ruins and dungeons. The game does not gray or give you any indication that you have already visited that area in gotten all of the items that are there. Then you will notice that the sites of Grace which were pointing toward major boss battles. Still point for the exact same boss battle. Making you have to go watch a YouTube video on where to go next. This is outdated game design and should be criticized.. you get very few attack patterns there are only a few weapons that actually give you more than to attack patterns and yes you can add another attack pattern through an ash of War. Sometimes depending on what that Ash of War does. However, the game lacks a lot in combat on your side. Making combat overtime boring. Because you're just doing the same animations over and over and over. My third critique is that multiplayer is actually kind of difficult to figure out especially when the game first launched now I don't understand why it is so Antiquated I guess the programmers thought it would be too hard to program in the fact that you could just sit at a side of Grace and invite friends. But it is extremely difficult to hook up with friends and actually play around together. And explaining it is like explaining an algebra problem. Fourth is there is no Quest log or notes on what NPCs have said. So if you came across it and NPC who was a quest giver and you wanted to try to do the quest yourself and maybe you were trying to remember where to go well good luck you might have to write that down with your own hands. It is there is absolutely no story in this game for a game that has a famous author on the title. There is no story to be found here you might find lore videos on the internet. But it is it entirely up to interpretation and there is hardly any dialogue between any in NPCs in the game. My favorite joke is that you're only going to get five lines of dialogue. With every NPC you come across that's not entirely true but it's a good joke and remind you that you should not expect any story when going into this game in fact the story is entirely up to interpretation and that's not a story because it doesn't have any major at or plot points your character does not grow your character does not change in any major way. Anybody who says any other way is clearly not knowledgeable when it comes to how stories work. The game looks like it should have came out 5 years ago the graphics are lacking. It looks gray and outdated even on a PlayStation 5. It looks like it should have came out alongside Dragon Age Inquisition. If it would have come out around that time it would have been a lot better. However video games have matured the world is boring New Game Plus is very disappointing your first playthrough is going to be extremely fun. And you're going to be excited with the possibilities of what new game plus is but when you get your mine ball bearings took it away from you and you can't buy smithing stones. And you have to discover things that you discovered in the previous play through. For the second time around you're going to find yourself hitting the delete button especially if you want hundred percent it and got the Platinum. This game is overrated and the fans are extremely toxic. I will never buy another from soft game in the future it is a waste of time money and energy the only type of people who are into this type of game series are people who are into being dominated and frankly that is not me.
Love this game and a big fromsoftware fan. It's not to every one's taste tho. It's tough and doesn't hold your hand. You have to explore and unravel the land betweens mysterys yourself. The combat it fluid, tough and varied. Shame its not optimizer properly but plays well on ps5. Loving it.
As an avid FromSoft fan, I must say that this game has not met the hype for me. Many of my fellow SoulsBorne fans are willing to overlook the deficiencies that the game has in its current state, but I am not sure doing so is fair. Like cases should be treated alike, and I wouldn't withhold criticism from another game with performance issues, design flaws, and gameplay weaknesses just because of brand loyalty (or in hopes of future updates and improvements that will more fully capitalize on the potential of the formula), so I will not do so here. My critiques can be boiled down to 2 general points (all approbations of the game left unspoken for the sake of brevity). I am reviewing on PS5. Also, I beat the game after 80+ hours of play. 1. Poor performance and failure to implement next-gen features. I've been playing through RDR2 while playing Elden Ring, and RDR2's graphics are noticeably better than Elden Ring's. I really admire Elden Ring's art direction, and found many in-game vistas quite beautiful, but they should be even more awe inspiring given the capabilities of the PS5. On top of lack luster graphics, the game's performance has been terrible at times. On many occasions, I've had frame rate drops that resulted in the screen, for all intents and purposes, being frozen. On top of that, throughout my entire play through, textures (trees, grass, etc.) wouldn't load in until my character was nearly on top of them. Watching environmental features pop into the screen left and right is really disappointing for a "next-gen" game, and is certainly an immersion breaker. My final complaint on this topic is the lack of haptic feedback implementation for PS5. Playing with a lifeless controller, after experiencing the allure of haptics with other PS5 games, is very disappointing (even RDR2 gives me some rumble here and there). 2. The open-world and the FromSoft formula is not a seamless fit. This game took me over 80+ hours to complete, and although I have faced greater boss challenges in other souls games, I was more mentally exhausted playing this game than any other FromSoft title. I don't think Elden Ring alters the From formula enough to achieve "masterpiece" status. My 80th hour was not as exciting as my 30th. After that many hours, new and complex areas with concomitant boss challenges become less rewarding and more taxing. By hour 65, I just wanted the game to end. There isn't enough diversity in gameplay to provide enjoyment over such an extended experience. Aesthetic difference between levels didn't make up for that lack of diversity, either. I imagine this complaint would register even more so for new players due to the lack of a strong and compelling narrative. I enjoy the FromSoft approach to narratives, but in a game of this size and scope, players need some sense of story-driven tension woven throughout the experience to keep them engaged. The intermittent narrative tension cobbled around boss encounters hardly suffices. All this to say, I would've enjoyed a smaller and shorter version of this game more than its current version. Its final form just feels bloated. Moreover, I think (emphasis on the tentative nature of this statement) the FromSoft formula works better in the previous iterations than it does here. There was not enough revision of that formula to warrant the immensity of this gaming experience. Challenge becomes chore when the game refuses to end.
One of that best games I have ever played. Yes I love the games made by FromSoftware. They have outdone themselves. The map is amazing and I have been discovering new things around ever corner. Thank you for this amazing game!
This game is one of the best games i have ever played. This world is so incredibly large and inspiring, the soundtracks is a bit lacking compared to other fromsoftware games but are still better than most games out there. The bosses are so cool, and the variety of enemies are mindblowing. A blend of skyrim, dark souls and bloodborne, what more can you ask for? 10/10 must play.
Amazing game, does everything it should have, satisfying play experience, gorgeous visuals, brilliant sound design, excellent sense of progression, wonderful built world and lore, nothing short of a masterpiece.
No matter how many hours I put into this game I cannot enjoy it. The game is clunky, boring, and not story-driven. The key mapping is terrible. Nothing like throwing out a random emote during a boss fight because you are holding Triangle and hitting your D-Pad just to get an emote instead. Waste of time = waste of life.
This game is a giant leap backwards from Sekiro and other From games. The performance is absolute trash. I get frame dips every 10 seconds which results in ultra jank making it a chore to play. The open world is empty and exploring rarely is fruitful. The UI is absolute garbage. Closing the ui should be the same button as opening. The delay on your characters attacks coupled with the pin point tracking enemies have on you is frustrating. The weapon upgrade and crafting systems are an afterthought. All around aimless, heartless experience, trying to het a refund.
This game is hands down the best game we have gotten in a decade at least. It is skyrim on crack. Its a game you absolutely cannot miss. Its hands down one of the best games ever made.
First of all, I HATE souls games... But I LOVE Elden Ring. If you've always wanted to like souls games but just couldn't, this might be for you. I'm now 80 hours in on my first playthrough, stuck on the very last boss. But I'll get him, someday. And in the meantime, there's just so much to do and explore in this beautiful open world filled with secrets. Is it challenging? Yes. Is it unfair? No. Is it rewarding? Very much yes. The game wants you to think with your own head, it doesn't hold your hand like 99% of other games. I'm not gonna lie, you need a commitment to this game. But if you commit, you will fall in love my fellow tarnished.
awful game i will return this tomorrow bored as hell dont buy it, its incomplete
I can't rate this game less than 10 just because is from my favorite series of all time. That being said, the game does suffer in some areas like end game balancing. The graphics are just not that bad as the haters are crying all around. The world is just one of the biggest there is and this is a good thing. Never ending exploring. "Oh my god the world is empty bla bla..." what do you expect? This is a SOULS game, not a fairy tale with butterflies. People need to understand that From Software always had a unique style, not like the garbage companies that throws unfinished games and even emptier worlds at the costumers at full price. This game IS a must play for the ones who like the series. For the others not so much. From early to mid game it felt balanced, but THE GAME LACKS BALANCE TERRIBLY IN THE LATE GAME, but still i managed to beat it. And thats whats souls is about, the unending satisfaction of beating something truly challenging, making you surpass your own capabilities. Just don't come here barfing bad scores because you died 50 times to a giant dragon.
Thank you ! Just thank you! Finally a game team that cares about the gamer ! Elden Ring is a massive open world game , mixed with a wonderful story lore, addictive gameplay exceptional music/sfx/gfx that turns every screenshot into a medieval work of art.... Took the game industry 11 years (Skyrim) to give us a game that exceeded expectations at least for us sony players.... Nitendo had their moment in 2017 now its our turn! Miyazaki a legend of our time
After 80 hours of an emotional rollercoaster ranging from Anger to pure bliss, I can finally say with certainty that this is the best game I have ever played, and probably the best game ever Made. This truly is From Softs Magnum Opus. Edit: Now after platinum... its still the best. Aight imma go back to playing Elden ring Now.
This is the ultimate version of Dark Souls thanks to its vast and gigantic open world.
As a big fan of the series and the genre, it's a 10/10 for me, but I can understand that it is not a game for everyone, based on the circle of dying and dying again to master the game. Sad how a bunch of people only giving negative reviews, because they can't pass the first area of the game. :()
I'm a bit ambivalent about how I feel about Elden Ring. A part of me really enjoyed playing this, and playing through a Souls like game again, except in an open world format; however, another part of me thinks this is the worst Souls game ever created. The bosses are cheap, the open world is lacking, and the story feels like there is bound to be a sequel or DLC coming for it. The bosses cheap comes from the fact that the boss' don't really have an AI, it's more so a tracking bot (in the sense of if and else statements), where literally the enemy knows where you are and specifically turns during an animation to smack you. Most of the open world is meaningless. Like there is a lot to do, and see, but most of the items will not fit with your build unless you force it, and even then, it won't help with a boss fight. Finally, the game has balance issues; like severe balance issues. There are multiple bosses where if you grind it out and get runes you can easily murder them, but then there are other bosses who do one-hit ko's no matter what. There are also some bosses who look like leftovers from other Fromsoft games... My highlights for this game was the world building. The game looks great, and has an excellent soundtrack. The art really matches the set-pieces and don't look out of place, and in general, I'm glad GRRM participated in this because you can feel that vibe there. Personally, i think if Fromsoft releases another Elden Ring/ Souls game, I'll be skipping it. I think From doesn't really know what it wants to be anymore, it tries to hard to cater to the generic fans and then the hardcore ones as well, and well, this game is amalgamation of both and a bit too much of it. I enjoyed this game, but it's not really anything innovative, and most times it's more frustrating than fun - so I ask you, do you play games to have fun or be frustrated?
Its not a game. Its an journey. I didnt play any souls like ever and my friend recommend elden ring to me. And i love it. Its easy my favourite game of all time. If you have the money just buy it. Words cant discribe it. Cheers tomsliike
amazing game. hands down the best souls game to date. hardest souls game? not so much. overall though great experience and amazing game
70 hours in and I’ve only completed a third of the game. This is incredible and from a value stand-point, top notch. Not to mention its lore and gameplay. Hands down, one of the best games you will ever play.
I don’t think the critic reviews are being very honest about this one. I have a lot of mixed feelings about it. On the one hand, it does many things very well. The open world genre really needed something like this to shake things up. On the other hand, this game has some serious issues. If you played any of the previous souls games then I think you’ll like it. I still recommend this title but how it’s being compared to Skyrim or Breath of The Wild or being called “the best game ever made” or “game of the decade” is completely beyond me.
I do wonder how many people would accept the brutal learning curve, the tank controls, and the unintuitive narrative progression system of just explore till you either die or find the next progression; if it wasn't for the fact the series has good lore. I feel like it would be zero, yet people defend its flaws so adamantly you'd think it was Ocarina of Time, when it's not even in the same ballpark. It's a good game, held back from being great simply because it's makers only know how to create difficulty in a game in one way. They finally refined that one way to its best and most polished form, and made a game that is the most playable yet, but its still not able to break free from the design flaws(or niches its fans call them, too unwilling to accept any criticism) that keep it from true greatness.
Best game I played in a while, already played about a 100 hrs and it still doesn't bore at all
One of the most engaging and enthralling experiences I've ever had. I've never been much of a souls player, but I have enjoyed difficult games in the past. I've speedrun a few games in the past too, with Sekiro being my introduction to the series. Coming from relatively difficult games like Cuphead, Sekiro, Hades, and Sifu, Elden Ring did an amazing job making me struggle and feel weak at first, but it does something that games like BOTW could never do for me, which is making me feel like I am getting stronger and progressing. It wasn't just my items and HP that were getting better, it was my entire character. I became so much more skilled than I could re-run all of limgrave with no issues on a new character, but being able to go back to limgrave in the end-game and one-shot some enemies gave me struggles early on was so satisfying. For me, this is a 10, because I haven't been this into and enthralled in a game since my teenage years when I played Skyrim, and it brought me as much enjoyment as I've ever had in a game.
Gameplay a 9 graphics a 6. Had to check and make sure I didn’t download the ps4 version when I first started running through the woods. Weird that demon’s souls remake looks so much better
those petty guys giving the game a 0/10 are just bad at the game ;) played it on 100% and its freaking awesome !!
Even if Dark Souls / Bloodbourne are 10 (which is not true)... Elden Ring brings us obviously worse UI and UX -1 unoptimized performance -1 same old story (Martin's touch barely exists) -1 and worst of all, worse enemy design -1 or -2 The good part? Gigantic world and better exploration. That makes it 7-8 at best. Where does the 9 and 10 come from? And don't forget most players expect better combat design, but it gets MUCH worse than before with bad and shifting view angles, long-reach multiple combos to render most strategies useless, and deliberate AI that makes every boss fight a time-and-energy-consuming attrition war. In the end, most players rely on only a few specific weapon arts or spells , rinse & repeat. This doesn't feel okay for a combat-centered game, especially not for the well-known Soul-game genre. BTW don't trust those who say no issues with PS5 version. Frame rate is so obviously not stable under performance mode (sometimes the game even stutters a bit), and this potentially affect your dodge precision. Honestly, giving this game "10" means either the reviewer is strongly biased toward the Soul franchise, or just got the game for a few hours. Upon further deliberation I decided to lower the score once again, due to the fact that the narrative techniques and riddle design obviously do not go hand-in-hand with its openness and vastness. Many NPCs give no or very ambiguous directions, and very likely appear in places the players have been to; as a result, the "chore" or "fetch boy" feel is even stronger than other open-world games even when there are only a few "side-quests". Riddles like looking for a certain animal never specify a range, combined with the fact that they can climb up the tree, fly in the sky or be invisible. And the instant-death stupid chariot stuff that make players an idiot -- mere trials and errors. All of the above are not challenges to players' intelligence or observation but just tedious tortures. Giving this game a 10 is like encouraging the designers to keep such meaningless and time-wasting tricks.
Absolute masterpiece, fromsoft has outdone themselves yet again, a challenging yet rewarding game, a vast map to explore, and there is no hand holding here, buckle up. This game is truly the dark souls of soulsborne games. A crowning achievement of a studio.
Just exposing the low capability of other game developers or creators. This is a timeless piece of art.
The problem is the hype got the attention of many players that don't really like Souls games formula. So they feel disappointed and give lower scores than they would normally do. You won't get the most objective opinions. People criticizing the menu's design, lack of story and that the "addition of a jump button is not big deal" just shows their ignorance about this genre. To me is a 9. It can be improved. It felt a bit empty at times, and some "mini" bosses uninspired. Since i am use to open world and souls games i had no problems with difficulty. I actually didn't get the challenge i was looking for. Beautiful level-design specially inside castles. But we already know what Miyazaki can do. It was an improvement in everything i knew about Souls games. I hope peoples emotional reactions don't undermine the beautiful work done here. It shows there was a lot of heart put into it. And that's all we can ask for. Be grateful.
As a disclaimer, I'm not one of the "souls games should have an easy mode" crowd, and I've cleared every soulsborne title to date. Elden Ring offers one of the most expansive, most carefully crafted and painstakingly curated open world experiences ever created. The game, it's environments, it's enemies, lore and set pieces are all stellar, there's so much to do, explore and conquer here assuming you're up to the game's considerable challenge. The only reason this isn't a straight 10/10 experience, is I feel FromSoft, in search of ensuring the difficult experience translates over to an open world game, have sacrificed fairness in some aspects of the game and have also left in some of the jankier aspects of souls combat that really should have been addressed by now. Firstly, melee is grossly out shined by magic and status effects, the balance here is very poor for a game that focuses so much on melee combat. Input delay is fairly prominent and makes the experience feel a little less fluid than previous games. Hitboxes vary between ultra precise and horrendous depending on the enemy. Jank within it's combat systems remains, for example I can knock an enemy down, and it's completely untouchable until it stands up, meanwhile enemies can wail on me if they knock me down. There are several instances of twin boss encounters that just use two of a normal boss you already fought, many of these aren't balanced for a duo encounter. There are some bosses that forgo the tight reaction based combat of previous entries and rely on what can only be described as random, uncounterable flailing around and/or AOE spam, thankfully these aren't present in great numbers. Player experience would be greatly enhanced if the map gave a recommended level range for its zones. Unlike previous more linear entries, I can see people calling the game out as impossible, when they just wandered into a high level zone accidentally as many of the high level areas are directly next to low level ones with nothing restricting access. Balance at higher levels is also off, many attacks are a one or two shot kill at the vigor softcap, meaning even if you stack HP your survivability is still exceptionally poor, this once again favours magic over melee. Anyway, I know that's a lot of negatives, this is still a fantastic souls game, but it's also the one I've had to put down in frustration the most. With new territory comes new BS to iron out, hopefully by Elden Ring 2 we'll have better balance, but don't let that put you off trying this.
A must play, people who are giving it bad reviews are just complete ass and expect games to hold your hand. This is it Chief. It’s a master piece. If you want a game that respects you and believes you aren’t an idiot and you can overcome the challenge. Pick it up and become the Elden Lord. Tarnished.
If you like breath of the wild?Then this is for you. First of I'm no dark souls fan . I've only played bloodbourne and not the other games. Games like this are so rare now days.. Games that don't hold your hand . Games that just expect you to simply become a better player. Now this formula only works for some people. It has a steep learning curve and it's hard when you start out.. and i personally love games that are hard only for you to become a god later on. No this game does not have the best graphics. But the view and the layouts are amazing to look at.. i mean the world looks amazing. There's stuff everywhere. Hidden things all over the place. If you see it it usually means you can go there. Reminds me alot of dragon's dogma but with even better boss design. It's a tough game. I've put 100 hours into it already. Probably got another 50 to go. If you don't like frustratingly hard games then this one is simply not for you. Stop review bombing the game based on difficulty. It's a dark souls game.. you know the games that are famous for being stupidly hard ?
It's acceptable. Not bad but could have been much better. The game suffers from a lot of filler content. Many dungeons are reminiscent of Chalice Dungeons in Bloodborne, except they have less enemy variety and are shorter. Expect to fight the same bosses and see the same assets, over and over again with few, if any variations. The open world is fairly unremarkable. The gameplay itself is the same as Dark Souls 3, though there is input delay on all platforms that makes the experience less fluid.
This is my first type of dark souls type of game i have ever played. The only reason i gave it a chance is because im a open world SNOB. At first, I hated the game. I thought to myself why anyone would want to put them selves through this pain. But oh man, once you accomplish a boss, its the best feeling in the world. Everything gets easier from there on out too in my opinion. The open world is gorgeous and the enemies are all so unique. Never played a game like this before. 10/10 for sure.
Despite these technical problems this game is really beautiful and one of their best game.
Pros -- Great exploration, tons of well-hidden secrets, dungeons are huge and well laid out, over 100 weapons add a lot of combat variety, character handling is very good, music is relaxing, enemies are unique and there's a good variety, you never know what you're going to stumble across when exploring, good replayability, and it's a lot of fun. Cons: With the lore being interesting, I wish there were at least some cutscenes, so that they could present a powerful story. Also, many of the bosses didn't seem as memorable as in their Dark Souls games.
What an amazing game. Holy crap. One of the best i've played super fun too.
This game take a whole different take on the open world genre. The rpg mechanics are very well implemented and the game is very fun to explore, it's rich and the world design is very very well done, personally i have not played a game like this since BOTW or Skyrim came out, very good game imo.
The negative reviews on this game seem to be misunderstanding something. If you like Dark Souls just ignore them. Best game in the series by far. It plays more or less like Dark Souls 3, perfect, I liked that game feel, why fix what wasn't broken. Its graphics are good. I don't really get the problem people have here. Sure they are not photo realistic but who actually wants that?! The game still had me so stunned by visuals at some points I forgot what I was doing and died. If you have not beaten a single other Fromsoftware game, maybe come back to Elden Ring when you have. If you don't want to be gate kept like that then sure go ahead, but you better have patience or look a few guides.
This was the first From Software game I was actually able to get into. I’ve never played over 130 hours and still haven’t found everything to do in this game. I would’ve given it a 10 but there occasions on PS5 where I would get frame rate stutters even on FPS priority mode. This is one of the best games I’ve ever played.
Elden Ring is the simultaneous revitalization of the Soulsbourne genre and a masterclass achievement of game design. From Software have not only polished and refined their tried-and-true combat system, but breathed life into its gameplay via the greatest open world I have yet to play. The open world is neither the sole focus of the game nor a tacked-on gimmick: its a tool by which the excellent gameplay can be experienced. At any point, you can choose to delve into the excellently designed dungeons of the Lands Between, or, if they prove too difficult for you just yet, venture into the bountiful yet still dangerous world to level up and unravel the world's mysteries. This is not an "Easy Mode" to just cheat away the difficulty of the dungeons with a Level 100 character: it is an option to alleviate and replace the difficulty of reflex driven combat with the critical thinking and adventure that well-designed open-worlds demand. Pardon the overused phrase, but in this way Elden Ring truly, has........a little something for everyone. (I'm sorry)
Probably the best game of all time if you ask me. It takes everything about the souls formula and expands while putting it in an open world with the BEST exploration. Combat is difficult but very fluid and rewarding. The vastness of character builds make playing new characters fresh everytime.
I don't get why this game is overrated , the graphics are at best average, storyline is non existent. The environment is like a fixed set of objects that don't interact with the character,
could this be a dog? .
this game is simply a banger. Probably the best game I have ever played. All those haters are so ratio. they absolutely don't understand the value of the best game ever published. definitely a must play.
It’s just great, had so much fun with it and still do, I’m 40 hours in and still haven't finished but oh boy it’s gonna be a long ride
Great game. People say it's bad and it's too much like dark souls. It's a lot like dark souls just with an open world. Does that make it all of a sudden a game for everyone? Ofc not its still a Souls game. If you don't like souls games you probably won't like this game, but to act like it's objectively a bad game comes off as salty. If you put the time in to learn/grind the game will reward you, if that's not your thing cool but that's always been how these games have worked.
The open world is very full, there are side missions everywhere, the boss fights are incredibly enjoyable, they have created a perfect game by blending souls mechanics with such a beautiful open world, everyone should try this game.
This game is empty, pointlessly difficult and boring. Thankfully tomorrow Rockstar releases updated version of GTA 5, so finally there's something good to play. I have finished GTA 5 over 8 times, but i will gladly play GTA 5 again, with updated graphics, over Elden Ring.
GotY hands down. Ticks all the boxes, best game I ever played. Huge, amazing to explore. The sense of achievement you get after finding something valuable or beating a difficult enemy or boss is so satisfying. The trolls that give low rates to dilute the overall rating are pathetic. There is nothing to unlike in this masterpiece ...
Solid open world full and surprises around every corner. It really feels like my adventure no twitch players are the same ever. The skill required draws you in to study the game and is really immersive. 2022 game of the year
Thankfully for now it's very obvious that most people don't actually like this game, yes it sold over million copies, because lots of people were baited into buying it, because it was advertised as "very accessible for new players", but in reality it's just same as every Souls game, just with open world and most people don't like games where you have to die million times to learn move sets, most people don't find that interesting, it's very obvious that most gamers want good story, fun gameplay and challenging, but not too difficult combat. Souls games are way more than challenging, they are brutal and even with best gear you can die easily and for most people, this is not fun. Just speaking facts.
Over-hyped and under preforming in fun factor. Over-hyped and laughable performance.
My first Souls game and I love it. Yes, it is hard and I gave up many times on random bosses. But I'm always back the other day, killing them and moving forward. I love the world and exporation. I'm going to buy and play more souls games. Because I really enjoy this one. 10/10
DISCLAIMER: At the time of writing this review, the S.E.A. copies of the game for console are still locked to a single language, predominantly Chinese. As a Canadian living in Japan, my copy is locked to Japanese, which is greatly reducing my potential enjoyment of the game. That said, my minor Japanese knowledge and experience with previous Souls titles has allowed me to play regardless. I'm holding onto hope that the Elden Ring team or Bandai Namco Games will be able to add a patch or a DLC Language pack, but until that time I CANNOT recommend this game for any foreign residents living in Asia unless you are familiar with Chinese (or Japanese in Japan). I was worried going into this game that the open world would detract from the thing I love most about Dark Souls: The intricately crafted level design and meticulously planned out world/player experience. In some aspects, it does, but I think the open world adds a lot more to the game than it detracts. The intricate level design and the experiences are still there in spades for the players, but with the added benefit of ramping up the exploration aspects to 11. I also think it improves the accessibility of the franchise. If a boss/area is too difficult, there are dozens of other bosses and areas to go take on or explore. In previous series, you would have a few options, but if none of them were viable to you then you either wasted time grinding or quit. Just by exploring more of the rich and fantastical world that Miyazaki and George R.R. Martin have brought to life, players can get stronger while discovering secrets, powerful abilities and unique equipment. There are also a lot of new abilities and quality of life improvements added to Elden Ring such as summon spirits and ashes of war. It's virtually a guarantee that any player will be able to conquer any of the challenges that Elden Ring sets before them with enough ingenuity, planning and exploration. I would highly recommend this game to any fans of previous "Souls/Borne" titles, people who like exploration, people who enjoy challenging gameplay, and fans of open world games (who don't mind a larger-than-typical challenge of other open world games as there is no quest log and few map markers to speak of).
The only gripe I have with this game is the input lag; dodging and blocking are not as responsive as other from software games. The mechanics is a downgrade from the likes of Bloodborne and Sekiro. Overall it's still a great game only held back by mediocore mechanics.
Elden Ring is probably the worst game I have played in recent memory. I went into it knowing nothing about it. Friends has recommended it to me so I thought why not we usually have the same tastes in games. I spent maybe 4 hours playing it on and off. I still have no idea what it’s point is. It’s such a slow paced game I couldn’t get into it. My opinion save your money for something better.
A mix of souls in a open world. A bit bored game, practicaly nothing new, old articulated moves. The artistic design from Miyazaki is so pretty.. And you can use a horse.
Please read until the end before getting super pissed I didn’t play a ton of the game but for me personally it’s just meh. The story is pretty much not there, and I don’t think that a games story being “cryptic” is a good thing. The gameplay is fine enough, but it doesn’t really feel like anything that hasn’t been done before. The graphics are honestly really nice and not nearly as bad as people say. Of course the world is absolutely beautiful, as is the music. The game is hard but I wasn’t expecting it not to be. It just isn’t my preferred kind of “hard” in a video game. Overall this is a game that can really only truly be enjoyed to its fullest by hardcore souls fans, which I am not. I’m sure it’s an awesome game, that just isn’t for me. Honestly the fault lies more on the marketing/promotion for saying that the game is super accessible, and anyone can get into it, when that really isn’t true.
I never wrote reviews, this game is an absolute masterpiece. I’m floored, all the haters that are throwing shade on reuse of prior code base etc etc have no idea how games are made. This game is a marvel and absolutely the best action RPG I have played in at least 5 years.
Oh man.. where to even start from and where to end this on..? Only that, would be just a disservice to the Magnum Opus called Elden Ring. I've sanked over 100+ hours now, and just beat the game at my own leisure enjoying every nook and cranny the game had to offer for me.. The sceneries of splendors i've walked and rode with (Torrent homeboy4life) Just the sheer brilliance of fantasy and artistry is just.. NEXT LEVEL... some thig insane boss designs i've ever had the pleasure to deal with like Rykard and the Void alien chutulu being from the cosmos/stars!? So many layers.. so many satisfying dungeons and caves to explore, so many amazing weapons with gameplay style changing powers that come along with em. For all the haters out there. GIT GUD. You don't have the right! O You don't have right! O praise the Elden Ring and its Elden Lord! Thank you so much Hidetaka Miyazaki and George R.R. Martin, from the bottom of my heart and all the grandeur developers from Fromsoftware, i bow to you all. And thank you from the bottom of my golden filled with Grace heart! For delivering sucha master piece, its idd One Of The Greats! One Of The Best Games, that's ever been made! No garbage Live service crap or filled with Microtransactions no **** paywalls none of the modern garbage Triple A gaming **** bravado going on here, just a full game from beginning to end with no strings attached, just a epic mind blowing journey of a adventure to behold. Sucha marvelous piece of work this game is, what a breathe of fresh air with all the Fremium/Live Service infested poorly designed games. I bow to yee all, hats off FromSoftware~ Hope you all enjoyed my love letter to FromSoft~
Just another Dark Souls with an open world. The UI is awful, the story shines by its lack of development and the graphics looks dated asf.
If we look at broad range of video games, for example 1990 till 2022, Elden Ring achieves absolutely nothing new. One could only call it revolutionary if 1, you only play Souls games 2. Haven't played open world games before 3. You are blindfolded fanboy, who defends this game no matter what. These kinds of unique/cool looking huge bosses were already in Resident Evil 4 and were done better. Let me remind you, this was 2005. Dead Space did similar thing with bosses, this was 2008. But what these games also had was story, depth, meaningful characters - Elden Ring has hardly any of that. Sure they were not open world, but in Elden Ring people clearly don't care about that "open world" anyway, they just run from one boss to another, that's the whole game. So in my opinion this comparison is fair. If we talk about open world games that have lots of huge monsters/bosses then Skyrim is amazing example for that, but that was 2011. And that game also had quest log, story and up to date graphics. So let me ask again, what is exactly so revolutionary and new in Elden Ring? What is this phenomenal new thing that this game supposedly archives? There's none of that. Taking away quest log, so you wont remember half the quests you did, is revolutionary? It's truly, truly sad to see that some people are actually trying to hype this game up and pretend like it's greatest thing ever, while very clearly these people have never even heard of games i just mentioned. I mean, if you love this game, good for you, play it forever i guess. All i wish for is just that there would be also normal games left for gamers who actually like to have fun and not die for one boss 200 times, just so you could figure out their move set, beat them and then move to next boss and repeat same thing 1000 times. No thank you.
I think that everyone is entitled to their opinion, but when reviewing a game you shouldn’t rate a game extremely low just because it wasn’t your cup of tea or it was too difficult. This game achieves SO much on so many fronts, and the love and care that went into making the game is SO apparent from the moment you step out into Elden Rings’ expansive, giant, monumental, unfathomable world. Yes, this may not be your type of game, but that doesn't mean it is a bad game or that you should rate it low. I believe this game is a monumental achievement in gaming and ON TOP OF THAT I enjoy every single little thing about it. Put both those things together and you have a 10/10 game from me. Can't wait to stop writing this and go back to playing.
This industry will not fool us all. FromSoftware’s games are designed to slow your progression with cheap difficulty in order to hide the fact it has less content. Less money can go into making the game, but fans line up to hand over the same wad of cash they’d pay for a real 21st century video game because they poor money into advertising with images that teenagers will think looks just so cool. Wow, it’s dark! The GOT dude is involved! Swords and magic! The whole gaming industry and reviewers are on board because there is more profit in it for them. Don’t be a dumb kid, and don’t buy any more of these kinds of games. See it for what it really is. If we keep buying in, these are the only kinds of games we’ll ever get. Do you really want this to be the best there is? 96 metascore, 10/10? When you buy these games, you give them your “yes” vote. The future of gaming is in our hands.
Playing Video Games for over 30 years I didn‘t have so much fun with a game in a long time. I only started with Souls likes with the Demon‘s Souls remake on PS5 abd didnt even finish it. The open world in ER with its countless pois and the missing automatic marks makes it so much more immersive than in other games maybe except Zelda. Well done From Software!
It’s addicting and yes it’s challenging. You need to put some hours in this game and explore the world to level up your character and the game gets better and better the longer you play.
Solid gameplay, over the top world design, terrifying boss fights, eye catching visuals, deep combat mechanisms, endless possibilities, and many, many other things can be said about Elden Ring, but non of them can truly describe it for what it is. Elden Ring is out of this world, and you will have to play it
Really nice gameplay. Perfect Souls Game with bombastic atmosphere. Soundtrack is also a 10/10. More NPC and Quest than in other From Software Games. A masterpiece.
I personally think Elden ring is an amazing game. A challenging one but in my opinion the challenges are fun. Though you will be stuck at some parts for a bit of time. If you enjoy the souls games I ensure you that this is a game you don’t want to miss.
I initially made a review for this game that was a perfect 10/10 score. At this point, I had not yet finished the game. The first half of Elden Ring is without a doubt one of if not the greatest open world game ever crafted. However, once you reach the wintery areas and the second half of the game begins, there is a noticeable fall in quality. Areas are now barren and empty and there are little to no new bosses in sight. The biggest issue however with the second half is its balancing, in which the game no longer feels fair and instead is hard for the sake of being hard. Enemies now do too much damage and you do too little, but the most egregious thing is the way the bosses in the second half work. These bosses are lightning fast and are brewed together with **** mechanics and constant AOE that at times feels unavoidable. The fact that bosses can transition so quickly into a new combo without you having time to react makes the game sided against anyone who isn't using a dex or magic build, meaning that players no longer have the freedom to choose however way they want to play and now have to abide by meta builds in order for bosses to seem feasible. The first half alone would be a 11/10, but the abhorrent second half (although it does have its moments) brings it down for a 9 for me, still an excellent game, but one that disappoints.
I've played it from start to finish and through again on new game+ now im making a pvp character, the game is an absolute masterpiece, i feel bad for anyone who doesn't ever click with these games, and even worse for people who are swayed by negative reviews left by subpar gamers who review bomb games when they dont get drip fed success by the game and have to actually earn it. Do yourself a favor, dive in to this world, give it a chance, it'll pull you in and keep you there.
this game is good, and those who gave bad reviews are those who **** at it and have temper problems. i honestly had fun and really got my moneys worth from this game unlike a lot of games being made now a days. so many bosses and so many hidden areas itll best take you like 60 hours to explore everything. Its an amazing looking game and at some moments i just catch myself in awe because of how good it looks. The gameplay is smooth and honestly i hardly ran into technical problems which i think is more of people getting mad at being bad tbh and blaming it on whatever they can. this is my first meta review i love dark souls and this game is for sure money well spent
I think it's the best game ever RPG masterpiece The world view is also beautiful All the elements were perfect.
Elden Ring is the fruition of esoteric mystique in lore and visual storytelling and challenging gameplay in a dark fantasy setting. The challenge this time around was implementing an open world and not falling into the trap that so many others fall into; being wide as an ocean but as deep as a puddle. From has managed to create a landscape so full of content, secrets and genuinely rewarding exploration that it is at times quite overwhelming to completionist players. What makes this game extra special is that it doesn't lose its identity in branching out to a new approach either- the game stays true to the Souls' original beloved formulae while also daring to go in new directions. During my time with the game there have been so many incredible moments, some even going as far as reminding me of childhood memories, living out my imagination as to what the perfect adventure game could be. It's hard to put into words, but it really is amazing that they were able to fit in as much as they have into a 50gb game. There are rabbit holes everywhere which twist and turn into new landscapes, some of which are hidden within already hidden areas. 50 hours in and I'm still discovering new places to explore. Highly recommended and close to perfection.
Just Perfect for people who like exploring 10/10. Only disadvantage is the multiplayer, but who needs that in a Singleplayer Game
After days and days of seeing this game praised to the end of the earth and back I picked up a copy to try my hand. I strongly recommend waiting several months for some updates to make this game playable. I will revisit this review when the game's technical mess is fixed on PS5 or PC. Pros - The bosses are very cool and quiet unique, and very fun to fight (when the fps isn't falling through the floor) - The world is very beautiful despite the old engine - The variety of classes, weapons, and items to pick up is great and fun to play around with - The open world is great to explore and very enjoyable, feels very fun to feel like I'm discovering secrets Cons - From a technical perspective this game is a mess. The frame rate is abysmal, even in performance mode but especially in quality mode. I couldn't play more than 20 minutes without getting motion sick, and had to stop several times because of this - Frame rate is about 40-55fps, never stable, and was occasionally dropping to less than 20. - The game is intentionally hostile to anyone who hasn't played the previous games and is very inaccessible, and has no interest in engaging new players to its obtuse systems - The UI is actively terrible. Finding items, figuring out how to upgrade items, figuring out what to do with runes, even closing the map, are all made intentionally obtuse for seemingly no reason. A simple example; the button to open the menu and to close the menu are two different buttons for no good reason, completely wasting the limited buttons available on a controller. Every button was very unintuitive to me This is a game made only for fans, and even though I think there's a lot to be enjoyed, feeling like the developers are constantly trying to hamstring me in stupid (and not game play related) ways and sell me a product that is extremely unoptimized is not my idea of fun.
Bought the Japanese version and no option to switch languages .Impossible to play.
A very enjoyable game, but I find it to play extremely the same as the previous souls games
An absolute gigantic world with tons of interesting places to explore and be rewarded for doing so. There's enemy variety, several different environments, and armors/weapons, which adds replayability to the game. I would easily give a 10 because this game is in my top five. However, almost three weeks since release and still next gen versions are worse than playing backwards compatibility in ps5 and ps4 version. I would like to play with better resolution in the actual ps5 version but it runs better on backwards compatibility and that shouldn't be happening. Every AAA that I tried on ps5 at least runs 60 fps with minor dips but not like 40 frames dip like in this game.
Just incredible, nothing more to say everyone need to give it a try, amazing open world full of discovering with multiple new ideas
Over 100 hours of playable content and great boss design. The open world is attractive and difficulty can be easy to hard depends on whether you want to summon.
Replaces Zelda as my favorite game of all time. Absolutely stunned at how good this game is.
Elden ring has become without a doubt, my all time favorite video game. It's incredible all that they have accomplished. From music, level design, combat, exploration, story, side content, and everything else. this game deserves all the praise that is getting and more! This is a must play game and one that I would never forget.
It is simply the best game in the last decade. Although it is doubtful it is better than Skyrim and FNV but thankfully they are more than 10 years old. ER completely makes other open-world games like a joke.
This game doesn't deserves 96/100 score. Absolutely no video game or movie has mad me actually angry, but Elden Ring managed to do that. If it's score was 80/100 or something, i wouldn't even care. Most people are not interested fighting every boss 20 times to learn their move set, Whole purpose of this game is just fight one boss after another and learn their move set, that's the whole thing. That's literally what this game is. This game has no depth, no meaning, nothing.
Perfect open world , many many dungeons and bosses . And hard to play awesome game
It's so funny to watch these Elden Ring fanboy Youtubers act like "oh look at steam numbers, look at steam numbers, Elden Ring is mainstream now, now everyone wants to play only Souls games". Jesus Christ. Obviously lots of people were baited into buying this game, because "apparently now everyone can play it", who cares that 80% can't even beat first boss, am i right? Just cause it sold over million copies means absolutely nothing. 80% will never beat the first boss, 90% will never complete the whole game or even half of it. This is not what mainstream means. GTA 5 is mainstream, because people keep playing. 80% who bought Elden Ring will figure out that it's not for them and quit. And then of course in same video they need to bash Ubisoft games as much as possible, they just can't help themselves lmao. Arguments like "all Ubisoft games are same" are especially hilarious now when Elden Ring is literally copy pasting other souls games, in open world setting. By the way let's get this idiotic thing out of the way, no, all Ubisoft games are not the same, as much as you want it to be true, it's simply not true. Assassin's Creed, Watch Dogs and Ghost Recon Wildlands are not same games as much as Ubisoft hater would like them to be. Simply not true. They might share some similar elements, but overall they are all completely their own thing. But in other hand, Elden Ring is literally re-using animations from 2016 video game. I have nothing against Youtubers giving their opinion about video games and whatever else. It's great. Just kind of **** that lots of them have absolute trash taste in gaming, but it is what it is i guess. By the way that trash taste would be also complete fine, if they wouldn't be so butthurt over Ubisoft, that they need to sht on that company every moment possible. How about talk about games that are actually bad, like Just Cause 4? Fallout 76? AC Valhalla was solid, just deal with it okay. You don't need to trash this game, find something else.
Been playing souls game since demon soul PS3 , i can say this is the best one ever , 10/10
I love it, simply a beautiful game overall. First game that doesn't fall apart with the hype.
Amazing game. At 140 hrs and still haven’t beaten it. Highly recommend it
You will love this game if you are a huge fan of the From Software games (FS further on). Like, real fan. That’s it. And if you are a fan, you don’t care about reviews. Otherwise you most probably will hate it, especially if you buy it because of all the hype around it or if the only game you played from FS was Dark Souls Remastered. Forget it, DS Remastered is a masterpiece in comparison with Elder Ring. You will hate it for no clear in game story (well that’s usual for FS), underwhelming complexity with no reward, very average graphics (well it not bad for FS games, but not in comparison with other) and open world which actually doesn’t make any sense in that game. As world’s lore is maniacally “foggy”, twisted and complicated and world itself provides you with veeeery few tips and hints about what happening, there is no desire or fun to investigate it at all. It mostly consists of empty areas and deadly mobs which you will grind day by day to make a next level up, so you can do same in next area. Also, most importantly, game is lagging on PS5 even in performance mode! Graphics mode is unplayable at all, as fps drops to a slide show, maybe that will be tuned a little by patches, but for the game where half second delay is critical this is totally unacceptable. Not recommend for a regular player who used to have good story/complexity/graphics/price balance.
This game is really a masterpiece,with incredible world building , enemy designs ,lore and so much more.
The best open world game since Skyrim. With a world so densely packed with amazing gameplay and lore it is very deserving of all the critical acclaim it has received thus far. Elden Ring is a game that takes all the greatness of previous From Software games and adds quality of life changes so any gamer can play it. This game is being review bombed by users on here due to the difficulty and to them I just have to say, watch gameplay **** before you spend $60 on it. While I personally don’t think the game is any harder than something like cup head or shovel knight, like those games it takes trial and error to succeed. If you want something easy and pretty play Horizon. If you still wanna give elden ring a shot but are unsure about the difficulty know that you can always summon help or grind in other areas. Something most angry consumers never even attempted.
Easily the most accessible From Software game. The open world is fun to explore and exhilarating when you happen upon an open world boss. I've had no performance issues so far and I play on the ps4. My only issue is the multiplayer. It's the usual From Software formula. Giving it a 10/10 to counter the review bombers. Real rating is 8/10
most overrated and most boring game of all time, game crashes every 15 min, the graphics aren't that great, it's overhyped by fanboys !
I love the game but Fromsoftware Destroy the PvP with no solo invasions. I hate play Coop so i cant be invaded? Ridiculous
At least we know which company pays for good rewiews. Graphics looks like from 2006. Gameplay is boring as hell. Story even more. Other languages was probably translated in google translator, or the stupid texts on the ground are so stupid that my brain dont accept them. Really dissapointed.
Well. It feels so clunky in comparison to sekiro. And I really don't understand the 97 Metascore and the 10/10 User hype. Why is this the best game ever? The open world is kinda empty and dull, the story is meh (if you like to piece it together and read), performance **** on ps5, combat feels clunky as already mentioned, graphics are outdated and so on.... Sure, It's from software and it's own genre yeah sure, but for me this is just a letdown and surely doesn't live up to the hype. Honestly this is not an innovative masterpiece. In no aspect. Fun and challenging but just recycled fromsoft stuff. And definitely not for the average gamer. EDIT: The design of Quests is absolute garbage. I bet 99% of players need to play with fextra life / guides to even get them or find them. The story is literally non existant. That's just horrendous design in such a huge game. Gets boring quick.. I wish it had a story and good quest design.... Sad.
Is it so hard to have a quest log? Is it so hard to give directions? 95% of your time lost or trying to figure out what to next. Felt like a job, not a game. As a 50 year old gamer. RPG’s to be specific, this is the single worst most frustrating game I’ve ever played. There are no words to explain how not fun this is. 46 hours later and I still don’t know what to do next, where to go next, how to get to the vast majority of the map. This is a 3 hour game that pretends to be 100’s of hours by not telling you ANYTHING. Just wander around and guess until you find a boss that you can’t beat. There should be laws against this kind of trash. Or at a bare minimum a refund policy for misleading us.
Many AAA games bored me, with their same third party mechanics and high production values. They are basically the same games but with a high budgeted veneer. Enter Elden Ring, Fromsoft's masterpiece will kick your a@# so hard like their previous games, but creates a world so vast and so dangerous that you will be addicted to explore every nook and cranny. If Zelda is Miyamoto's dream then Elden Ring is its polar opposite, a nightmare that you will not want to wake up from, until you mastered and conquered it, probably hundreds of hours later.
Awesome Game. 179.5 hours invested. intense cutscenes and story lines if you will to put in time. This game isnt fully optimized, but also most of peoples pc's are **** doodling around with an old ryzen 5 or intel are wondering why a CPU heavy game isnt running well, while their cpu is at 85-90°C. I had small frame drops in certain areas which are re-createable, cause it was bound to loading of the next big patch of an area. but that was minimized in a patch a few patches later. I never lagged in an Bossfight. My only complain is, the reuse of some Dungeon Bosses, just giving them more HP and more Damage, which is simply just boring when you learned the boss already. Haters gonna hate and vote it down cause people love the game and the genre. Its a Fromsoft game with 5X the current playerbase than dark souls3. from 214k(ds3) or some to a million(ER). And with hype the casuals and hater come in and talk it bad. while millions of people enjoy the game, they come here to hate and feel better with their problems aka getting **** by the game. laughable
This game IS amazing. Do yourself a favor and start playing. Don't read these emotionally written reviews with a zero score. Pick up the game, play it, thank me later.
Most of the people writing these reviews are probably below 10 or they are acting like that. 10 might be a big number tho. The game is absolutely amazing. Stunning with great story open world. Just absolutely amazing piece of software. Thank you from bringing such a good dame to us. Keep them coming. I hope we will see more Open Wolrd from you guys! Absolutely love it. After couple updates the fps is up and graphics is Stunning. Absolutely no bugs or issues so far in my run on PS5. Hope everyone buys it and support the developers!
General Radhan ruins an otherwise great game. Will update review once I eventually beat this stupid boss.
The review is at the bottom. Hope it helps. A lot of this is just a biased rant more than than anything, considering I've 100%'d the prior games that FromSoft have released. I've played the game for 200~ish and I'm level 167. The biggest problem with the game is that its hyped up, got a 95-97 score(one of the highest rated games of all time), a large amount of players new to the Souls-like genre grab it without knowing anything about it, and how FromSoft makes their games. And they think they can rush through it like they do with their Ubisoft/EA games. Those types of players are just not experiencing the game in the glory they were supposed to. There's a public perception with Elden Ring, the 10/10s and “must plays" being tied to a niche and easy game, being wrapped in mega ultra hype from companies and fans alike. The 4 biggest gripes I've seen about the game is that: 1. The game looks worse than previous generation(s) titles, which, is just not right. Of course the game doesn't look as good as, say Forza, Tarkov, Flight Sim, just to name a few, but the game does not look terrible in any means whatsoever. There's a massive difference between ER and DS3 in graphic output, and it's around the same level as AC Valhalla, if not actually looking better. And in my personal opinion it looks comparable to Demon's Souls remake, of course the remake looks better, but most the spells look to be in the same ballpark. 2. Performance issues, the game has MAJOR performance issues for all parties, for me, who's only played on Xbox and PS5, I've had no issues so far, no frame drops, and no tears or anything, so I'm lucky I suppose. Only really seen two bugs and that's with the horseback gameplay. 3. Reused animations, the animations thing makes me wonder if people have even played the game, and any game for that matter. OF COURSE the games going to have reused animations, because they work. It’s going to produce the same end result. These type of people don’t understand that doing stuff from scratch takes time and testing time. Every studio will reuse assets if possible, some examples are Majora's Mask, which reused quite literally almost all off the animations from OOT, and Fallout: NV, which reused a metric ton of the assets from prior games in the series, and many more game series do this same exact thing. They've literally added 3-5 new attack chains for EVERY weapon type, and new and unique weapon arts, and interchangeable ones. Even if they reused all assets from DS3, the new ones they added would outnumber them several times over. 4. No story, this one just isn't thrown into your face. The game does have story, just gotta look for it. But it is rather difficult to actually find it so I understand the complaints. And especially the fact that George RR Martin was tuned in with the story, seems a bit lackluster. Now myself included of course has some gripes. Such as the games dungeon system being massively rehashed, almost all Catacombs are the same, Hero Graves and repeating minibosses and etc. Just rehashed areas with only a few unique ones. But that's outweighed from how massive the game is and the amount of content there is. The main areas in the game such as Limgrave, Liurnia of The Lakes, Leyndell are all really well made areas. Gameplay: 10/10, same souls type game I fell in love with many years ago. Exploration: 9/10, one of the few open world games I've played that doesn't feel extremely empty to me. I really enjoy it. Only bad thing is as i said above, the dungeon problem. Story: 8.5/10, I enjoy the story, it's not as cryptic as the other souls games, easier to follow and it pretty good for what I've experienced. Accessibility/Performance: For me, a 10/10, but as I've read for hundreds of others, that seems to be a 1/10. But for me, a 10. Art Direction: 10/10, Don't got much to say, just good. Graphics: 8.5/10, for me anyways, since a lot of people say the game looks absolutely horrid, the game is beautiful. Difficulty: 9/10, I'm by no means bad at the game, but the game in some places just truly seem like a gimmick. Some enemies are rather hectic and are overall just cringe to fight. But it’s still not overwhelmingly difficult, it has a decent learning curve for people completely new to the genre, and it also doesn't hold back for returning soul veterans. Music: 6/10. I just dislike the music for this game. Doesn't stroke the flame like Sekiro and DS1-3 did to me. My final score would be a 8~9/10 game, but for the sole fact i am enjoying this game, i’m giving it a 10/10. Games great, if you get past some of the inherent difficulty that a souls-like is going to have, the game is amazing and i truly recommend it.
I wish Fromsoft would learn from Ubisoft and Rockstar how to make fun and entertaining games, sadly Elden Ring is another example of how boring Fromsoft games really are. I was exploring 5 hours and i have never felt so empty inside while playing a video game. Souls combat is also awful, i guess some people like predictable combat, but i like chaotic combat. I don't want to learn some move sets, so i could beat this random boss. Souls combat is like chess, you only have certain moves that you have to repeat over and over, that's the whole combat. Assassin's Creed and Witcher combat is way better, you have so much more freedom to choose how, where, when you attack, etc. Very disappointed in Elden Ring, i'm not saying they have to change anything, because clearly some people like this kind of gameplay, but i have feeling that it's more like minority. Strong doubt that most gamers would prefer Souls combat over Witcher combat.
This game is bad. People that like this game is the same people with a humiliation kink. Waste of 60$
One of the best fromsoftware game I played so far. Also one of the best games period
If you are fan of the souls series or just love a challenge then this games is for you , very fun and extremely addicting I get lost for hours just wondering around exploring the world , it really is vast and there a lot of beautiful views along the way. Gameplay is great with tons of options to choose your play style .
This game doesn’t do anything new and therefore gets boring very fast also replay ability is quite bad also
This is was masterpiece Thanks to from software for This Great game i will never forget it
First of all, please stop giving 0 point to game based on PC performance. Im a huge fan of soul series. I got platinum trophy ds 1-2-3 And Bloodborne. (Because of similarity i got platinum trophy nioh 1 And still continue nioh 2) Im have been looking forward to elden ring since its announcement. I think its fantastic. Ds with open world was our dream for years And its real now. A lot of people bought elden ring because of its popularity And hype. Most of them never play ds before. So they couldnt understand the game And its taste. Most important things are secrets And discover something without help. Its critical for me. You have to look around, under every rock, every cave etc. I love it. Playing With your friends is more enjoyable. Good game, have fun
Best of the best. Masterpiece and those who says othervise are just souls noobs
The game is good but the multiplayer doesn't work at all. followed a load of guides but no the martyr effigy cant is interacted with. Invades don't even exist. left the game run for 4 hours and still couldn't invade. The "multiplayer" is such a pain that I don't want to touch the game and was so annoyed I almost broke the controller. They really need to sort this game out cause it is literally impossible to use multiplayer. now my game may be bugged but an update is desperately needed as it's taking the joy out of the game.
If you like exploring alien worlds and landscapes, even if the entire population and bestiary is hostile to you ON SIGHT, and you don't need a compelling reason to do any of it, because you are fine with making it up on your own, or just love a challenge for the sake of a challenge, or you believe that killing things and taking their stuff is its own reward... then this game is truly is a 10 out of 10. On top of that, this game is BEAUTIFUL. The enemy design is breathtaking. You will find joy in discovering the 100's of varied enemy creatures that dot the landscape. There is so much to find - and kill - in this game. However, the game is an endless repetition of set piece battles, that reset immediately when you get to a check point and pause the game. This reset breaks the immersion of the world, and reminds you that this is just a game, and these characters are just automatons, going through the motions, like some kind of fun house. There are TONS of hidden weapons, armors, and enemies, just waiting for you to find them. But the game only provides a backstory for the Bosses and NPC's. It doesn't actually give you a detailed or compelling reason as to why you're killing them all. Did they do something to you? Destroy your people? Who ARE your people? You can't be from this land, because NOBODY apparently lives here except the monster automatons. That is why this game is a solid 7. It gives you LOTS and LOTS of things to discover and kill. It's a visual masterpiece. But the game controls are difficult, your character animations are woefully slow compared to your enemies, the game's economy/xp system was designed for the grinders, and the game provides ZERO context or a compelling narrative in which you can take part. SOLID 7/10.
For anyone wondering about whether or not they might enjoy Elden Ring, I believe that it is important to say that Elden Ring is only slightly more accessible than most of its Dark Souls predecessors. This is still very much a challenging video game that prioritizes strategic, skill-paced combat, and does not hold your hand. It is centred around traversing a fantasy world full of grim and grotesque enemies, and its story is mostly told in vague snippets of lore. These offerings are not meant as criticisms - they are simply statements about what one who has never played a FromSoft Dark Souls-style game might expect from this game. For my part, I can comfortably say that this is one of the most deeply engrossing, comfortably challenging and overall awe-inspiring video game experiences I've ever had the pleasure of playing. Some areas of the game definitely possess that old-school, claustrophobic feel of the Dark Souls games, and bring back those narrow corridors with enemy distributions that feel sadistic - however, there are also numerous wide-open spaces filled with breathtaking views, where you can also accidentally run right into an extremely intimidating boss that could easily overwhelm you. Can I recommend this game to everyone? Absolutely not - it's a Souls game, through and through. It is not the colourful, easily accessible romp through a colourful, hooking world that games like Minecraft, Fortnite or Mario might offer. But this is a game that, even after the 150+ hours I have clocked playing it, still provides excitement, a sense of discovery, and an astonishing amount of opportunities to experiment when it comes to fighting enemies. Elden Ring is somewhat obtuse, challenging (sometimes shockingly so) and will not hold your hand. However, it is also an undeniably incredible video game that could easily provide you with well over 1000 hours of enjoyment. This is a no-brainer for anyone who ever enjoyed a Souls game, but also offers new players a chance (the most of any game of its kind, but still not much of one) to experience their first Souls game. Elden Ring might not be for everyone, but anyone who ends up enjoying it is almost certainly going to absolutely love it.
Game changing game, incredible in depth and big. Probably the most approachable FromSoftware game for a larger audience
Broken game. Somehow the game de-synced my files from the cloud and overwrote them with a file that was 41 hours prior to my most recent save and I basically had to start completely over. I dropped down 80 levels and lost literally hundreds of items and equipment. I will never touch a souls game again. Complete waste of time.
If it's the GOTY, this year would be awful for gaming. It's just a Dark Souls 4 in an open world, nothing more. I you don't like the Dark Souls series and other look alike, you won't like this game too. The open world isn't revolutionary as some people said.
I tried this game on PC. I couldn't play it because of horrible performance issues and no ultrawide support (it's 2022 FFS). However, that being said - I didn't want to wait for patches (which may or may not happen) to play this game so I **** it up; bought a PS5, and went to town. Best decision I've made in quite some time - I was very much looking at putting down video games for a more casual experience potentially looking at chilling out with borderline basic games like The Last of Us. The best way of describing it was complete gaming fatigue, too many games are filled with overbearing HUDs, hand-holding and damn micro-transactions. The practices of the industry are shameful and honestly make me want to quit playing games altogether. That being said. If there's an 'Elden Ring' of games every couple of years. I'll be sticking around. The last game I can comfortably say I enjoyed this much was Breath of The Wild.
One of the first games ever that does open world justice. Amazing exploring.
Probably my favourite game of all time, or top 3 at least..................
Good game for souls fans. Negative reviews are coming from those who dislike souls concept
Its fine I guess, if you liked dark souls 3 you will like Elden Ring but honestly i am bored of the dark souls combat system, spam dodge, attack twice, repeat or use magic… its clear people love this game but for me the experience incredibly tedious and boring that i stopped playing halfway through the game and have no urge to jump back in.
Fantastic game honestly my favorite game from software has made so far, it's a shame it's getting heavily review bombed, it really does feel like the combination of all the experience in games they have had so far, I recommend
A new step. No game has gone here before. Loss for words. This game is absolutely insane in scale but it’s not just big. It’s refined to a level nobody has seen before in my opinion. Will be remembered as possibly the greatest video game of all time. Definite Top Three AT LEAST.
I am currently 12 hours into the game so far and I've probably died about 200 times. Pain
game isnt fun like halo and the grafics are bad knot up to 2022 standerds .
This is the best iteration of the From Software games. The open world is done very well and its awesome how they leave such an insane amount of content to be discovered or that only a select few will discover. This makes this game terrible for a lot of gamers that want a helping hand in every game they play, this game doesn't at all. There are rarely games were you will play for so many hours straight but this is one of them and they tend to not be open world. In most open world games I just want to do the main campaign, but in this game you just want to look through every crevice to make sure you don't miss anything. I haven't finished this game yet and I'm far from it, most likely there will be some boss or other things that I will miss. But this game is the obvious GOTY!
I played almost 200 hours in this game. I tried to be like every other fanboi but this game is f**** garbage. Hidetaka himself said in an interview that difficulty for the sake of difficulty is horrible game design. So, what gives? Obviously Mr. H never played his own game or he'd realize that after the first 2 areas the game scales up higher than any souls game I have ever played. It's ridiculous how every fight past liurnia is a constant slog and I must die repeatedly to learn fights or mobs. That's not good game design. Even Sekiro was not like this untill Genichiro. This is beyond pathetic. This is game Developers just being **** IMO. No need to make a brutal AI that predicts your patterns. That's just being mean and not fun. I am tired of trash mobs slaughtering me despite being near lvl 100, and tired of dying 500 times to a boss because there are no clear patterns other than 1 or two moves to visually see beforehand. I don't get why people like this company, and game. They have not evolved anything other than the world, which I admit is gorgeous. The world they made is truly beautiful but the game you play in it is garbage. Difficulty for the sake of difficulty Hidetaka, head your own words next time. However, I won't be there and waste my money. I want to enjoy challenges not masochism.
garbage enemy AI, too many enemies, no mission list, the open world is not open enough
If Dark Souls it's the best 3D metroidvania experience! Elden Ring is the best Open World Experience with strong MetroidVania elements in key dungeons and even at some degree to the Open World itself. The formula of Ubisoft Open World is a plague to the video-game industry and seeing FromSoft creating such a new and fresh take on the Open World design is something that is amazing to see. I can only hope that other video-game studios that wants to create Open World game will study Elden Ring design and take some inspirations for their futures games!
Masterpiece! Unforgettable adventure, massive open world, beautiful compositions, new heights on level design. FromSoftware's new Magnum Opus. 10/10
The best game ive played in a long time, perfect in all aspects, its a shame it didn´t come dubbed but that doesn´t make the game any worse.
If you like games with no story, ps2 graphics, nintendo64 physics , corrupted save files and boring bosses that take hours to beat definitely pick this up. Worst game ever.
For fans of the Souls series, Elden Ring surpasses all expectations and hype, delivering a once in a generation masterpiece. The early favorite for Game of the Year, Elden Ring raises the bar for open world rpgs.
Open world RPG? Well, it is open but it is empty so very empty. No cities no dialogue no meaningful quests. There are only enormously big Godzilla's killing you in an instant. In my opinion a totally meaningless game and extremely boring game. Rather good looking graphics through.
First ever soulsborne game, and I have to say that this is a masterpiece. Ignore the review bombs and buy it. the game has a strong exploration focus, and in many ways it feels like breath of the wild with better combat, graphics, lore and art direction. people trying to give this game a 0 either a) are salty horizon fans or b) haven't played enough of it to give it a fair review.
Elden Ring is the pinnacle of Soulslike games and their evolution over the years. The world is vast and beautifully horrific, filled with bosses around every corner - each of which still has the same amount of imagination, thought, and quality of bosses from the Souls games before it. It's brutal & challenging, yet exhilarating & rewarding. This is literally your favorite Souls game on steroids - or you could even go as far as just considering it Dark Souls 4. This is a SOULS game, through and through, so don't pick this game up looking for a Sekiro or Bloodborne style, it's an obvious, but perfect, upgrade and evolution of Souls.
for me graphics were just not it. somehow after playing forbidden west last month and playing this game last week felt like 2 years generation gap between these. they did improve on loots and side quests but standards are so high and honestly this game experience was **** moderate story line, **** graphics. but unlike me if you rate combat at highest while playing game then this one might be for you as fights were legit good
On ps4, or PC I would give the game a 9/10 based on performance issues, but from software is addressing these issues and are not present in the ps5 version. Don’t believe the claims of an “empty” open world. The world is packed the brim with enemies and treasure, it’s just not always in plain site. Music is fantastic, graphics are still similar to other souls games, but the art style is like nothing I’ve ever seen. Monster design is top notch as always with fromsoft. This game is BRUTAL, it’s definitely not for everyone. It doesn’t hold your hand at all, so you’re forced to solve problems yourself rather than quest markers or maps holding your hand. It makes you feel more accomplished than any other game. if you enjoy action rpgs there is no better game out there. I was losing interest in gaming until this came out, and completely reignited it. This game is unbelievable, truly like nothing I’ve ever played before.
Elden Ring is if Dark Souls had a really huge map, which is superb
I'm a big Souls fan and have been there since the beginning. It's not an overall perfect game but for me it's the perfect Souls game! So oll rate it with a 10. I've never had so much fun with a Souls game like I do have with Elden Ring. Yes the game has some technical errors but which game doesn't nowadays!? Everything is patch able guys! The Core game is absolutely amazing! GOTY 2022 4 sure!
Amazing game. So much satisfaction from overcoming hard bosses. The game does punish you but every boss is beatable. The world is very immersive and the game doesn’t hold your hand when moving through it.
Elden Ring offers the most potent sensations of grandeur I've experienced while exploring an open world. Its immense scale and sense of freedom contrasts wonderfully with the terrors that linger throughout its derelict plains. Additionally, FromSoftware presents a robust mechanical evolution to its Soulsborne formula, providing an unmatched level of character diversity, allowing the player to tackle the many creatures of this world in whatever fashion they please. The game suffers from some repetitive bossfights and rehashed ideas, but The Lands Between continued to surprise me until the very end.
After the end of my 80 hour journey with this game. All I could think about it starting it all over again. I love everything about the world that fromsoftware have made. And I hope they keep up this great work and keep on delivering on there content
This game is really beautiful. The game's war mechanics, open world, exploring something on the map are excellent. The story of the game is interesting. I think this game is the best among other souls-like games.
Eldin is a great game & a must own. I have 80hr into the game & haven't even opened up the entire map yet this just might be the biggest game ever made no joke.
Praise the Sun. Been waiting on this game for years. It didn't disappoint. From Software has made a classic that will change how open world's will be built for years to come. It's the most assessable From Software game but nowhere near easy. Masterpiece
Repeated bosses in the exploration part. Same way in telling story as ds. Hard to complete side quest due to no pointer will show u the related NPC will be at in that huge empty world. Bad graphics and performance but good visual art.
This game is a masterpiece. The best entry in the whole soulsborne franchise. This game will be GOTY. Mark my words
This is the best soulslike game which I have ever played! It has a great story, interesting characters, hard Bosses and very beautiful game design.
It's a good game, but it deserved more polish, more care. We have works that are so well finished today and with less than this title, this is very unfair. We have to demand quality!
After 80 hours of play I’m downgrading my score from 6 to 4. This game is a prime example of over-hyped. It’s fun but certainly not a 10 nor is it a 0. It adds nothing new to gaming that hasn’t been done elsewhere and typically done (much) better. Movement and combat certainly have improved compared to previous iterations of this game. The overall accessibility is still bad, be it by design or incompetence. For example, the inventory is so clunky and dated. Key information on items stats is hidden, for a “core” game this should be easily accessible. Most of the game’s difficulty comes from obfuscation of the game’s mechanics, so you have to resort to online guides & walkthroughs. The current v2 of this game is riddled with bugs making it very easy ridiculously easy. Most encounters can be completely bypassed and “legendary” loot (broken, overpowered) can just be grabbed without effort. For a game who’s USP is to “be hard” this makes it a complete joke. Nevertheless, I do have a lot of fun exploring and fighting but there remains a constant feeling this game could have been so much better. Hopefully patches will make it better.
Masterpiece. Everybody that has ever held a controller should experience this game.
If this isn’t a masterpiece ****, I don’t know what is. This is Dark Souls, but with an open world setting. But the essence of crawling through dungeons reminiscing the challenging areas that are hallmarks of the series is still there. The exploration adds a whole new aspect to the game that I never knew I needed in a souls game, but I gladly appreciate now. All in all, the combat is good as always, if not better with a plethora of options on how you can build the way you like to play. Give this game a chance, it might not be for everybody, but this one sure is more welcoming than the previous ones.
I see so much negative review ıdk why. This game so so so good blow my mind every time every map every boss its so so good. I feel the world. U can feel the fear inside. U can feel the wtf this is so hard to kill this boss. If u can do great build u can kill every one. I see meele **** no u **** u cant play this game meele is realy good if u using blood shot and good ashes of war. And this game have so much ashes of war. U can play magican or warior. Yes this game HARD but ı love it.
This is seriously a great game! BUY IT! If you "love" breath of the wild you might like this more
I've played ds 1, 2, 3, Bloodborne, Sekiro, Demon Souls. Elden Ring is everything those games managed to be and more. I cant remember a game that make me so satisfied to play since Baldurs Gate 2, Skyrim, The Witcher 2 and 3, Doom, Duke Nuken, Age of empires, Golden Axe, Diablo 2 or Streets of Rage. This game is an instant classic and a must play, without a doubt.
One of the best games I have ever played. I'm 70 hours in and I cant recommend it enough. Sure, the first couple of hours was a bit slow, since you dont really know where you should go, but soon you understand where to gi and what to do. The difficulty is hard, but not brutally hard, most of the game is easier than DS and Sekiro. If you dont like DS you wont like this game, but if you love DS you Will have an absolute blast playing this game! The map is huge, theres so many different enemies, caves, bosses and so on. Doesnt matter which way you travel, you Will find something interesting there! If 11/10 was an option, this game would have earned it. Game of the Year without a doubt. Edit: I have played over 300 hours and completed the game 3 times. And it Just keeps on getting better and better! Btw my "game of the year guaranteed" statement aged well dont you think?
I know 20 hours is not that much game time considering the biggest soulslike game to date, but even so I was able to explore, and die a lot. I started with the Samurai Class thinking I could be like the Starving wolf from Sekiro, but man i was wrong... I had my ass whooped, but the problem was not the game it was my mind set. I got frustrated and decided to start all over as Vagabond and changed the play style to the one I used back in 2009 with my soldier class in Demon's Souls, ho boy, what a difference, I rearranged my equip and my weapons to a melee play style based on strength and I was able to smooth the things up. So if you are struggling, don't be ashamed in starting over with a new class, Elden ring brought to Soulslike genre all we needed in past games, it's less punishing but that doesn't mean it's easier, some enemies and bosses are quite challenging but very satisfying when once overcame. I haven't had any performance issues or bugs so far, only some render delays but nothing much. Overall it's a great game, maybe a new starting point for the Soulslike genre, a sample of what Fromsoftware can provide from now on, and this is something interesting about them they know how to balance between new and old ideas. This is the passion we need from more devs. For newcomers keeping up, it might be a game that suits you, if it still doesn't, well let it go!
Incredible game, a lot bigger than expected with so many surprises and secrets.
As a Dark Souls fan, this game is amazing. Very large open world, beautiful graphics, and they did a great job making it more user friendly to new players. It still has a Dark Souls challenge to it, but they provide you with a map, and the tools you need to succeed. With it being open world, if you are struggling, just go somewhere else until your stronger. Lots of weapons and armor, spells, and awesome enemies. This game is a for sure 10/10 for me. Finally a game that seemed finished on release, rather than waiting for updates to make it fun.
It takes a while to understand soulsbourne games. The lost feeling, no directions, punishing battles. This game hits your very soul. The lore is insane, so many different builds you can create, the challenge MAN! that's what it's about! That journey whether alone or with the sun bros. The unknown and mystery this game offers. I'm 100 hours in taking my sweet *** time. Waited so long for this game, enjoying the view and doing those slow walks lol. Thank you Fromsoftware for doing what you do, and to all my fellow tarnished GG
I had some problems with stutter, but the game is so well built that little performances flaws gets irrelevant, unless you're trying to playing on a toaster. Rn I have 60 hours and haven't finished the game yet, the world is so big and beautiful, this games doesn't need ultra mega blaster graphics because of art. Every biome is unique
I couldn't stop playing and exploring the game, everything is just PERFECT!!!!!
Visuals: 9 - Audio: 8 - Fun: 9 - Longevity: N/A - Engagement: 9 - Overall Score: 9 (so far) Only started playing 'Elden Ring' so I can only offer a 'Work in progress' review 'Elden Ring' is better looking than 'Dark Souls 3' but not as polished as the 'Demon's Souls' remake. Music is typically rousing when combat takes place and calm / relaxing when roaming the world. Controls are almost identical to previous 'Dark Souls' games but with a few new moves that really enhance gameplay. 'Elden Ring' is a 'Souls' game that has been inspired by 'Zelda: Breath of the Wild' which is an absolutely brilliant thing. So far 'Elden Ring' feels more of an evolution rather than a revolution however I am really enjoying it and can totally recommend.
I feel like i have been cheated out of my hard earned money by buying this game! Why are there no English language options in the Playstation Southeast Asian market?!! Release a patch fix or refund our money!
The open world is dense, combat is better than ever, and the story and world are engrossing with a lot to discover. This is my first FS game and it is probably one of my favorite games of all time!
Elden RIng has proven to be to be an excellent game, in my eyes easily capable of winning game of the year. Firstly the open world is absolutely stunning, it is a lovely place to look at. Secondly I for one really enjoy the combat as it is relatively easy to pick up with the basics of hit and dodge, but there is so much depth to be discovered. So please do not pass this up as it is truly fantastic
Like any good game should be, Elden Ring isn’t for everyone. It follows FromSoft’s gameplay, design choices and philosophy. It’s about exploration and wandering. It urges, no almost forces you to do so. The game is hard, unforgivable but rewarding. Questlines are plenty, but the story and the lore isn’t presented with handholding. You have to think. Think a casual first playthrough will between 70-100 hours. And then you’ll miss half of the game, maybe even more. Together with the abundance of builds and ways to play, this game will stick around for sometimes. Like I said the game is not for everyone. If you want newgen crispy graphics, Storymode or a fast 1 hour game between chores, this is not for you. It certainly has it’s quirks and technical difficulties, but for me all is forgiven. It’s an open world Dark Souls, and I love it!
No English text for PS5 asia version, only Chinese and Thailand. Can't believe a game like this doesn't support this thing.
Imagine giving Elden ring a bad score because of frame drops on pc, this is for the ps5 version anyway, anyway the games amazing.
10/10 Doesn't do this title justice, and I don't mean that out of pure hyperbole. This game sets a new high standard for how to create an open world title. Even if you are not a fan of the souls-like combat, just the act of roaming around the world and discovering things is worth the price of admission.
Absolutely fantastic and one of the best games ever, definetly the best Souls game but perhaps not the best Soulsbourne game, I'll have to replay Bloosbourne and Sekiro after this to evaluate that. I've been playing it fairly slow compared to others, it seems at 60 hours +7 on launch night before I re rolled my build. I want to savour it and I hope it never ends and by the looks of the full map that people keep spoiling on social media I'm less than half way through the game and even now I feel it is gigantic It never feels empty and every discovery is am organic, rewarding moment. It's still Souls combat with a tad more fluidity and the graphics aren't Sony level but in HDR it looks as pretty as Ghost of Tsushima at times. ....Agh, people on here have said it a million times. This game is the rare 10/10 that could be scored 11/10 and it'd still make sense. I know it's a game I'll play annually or every few year, for many years to come.
This Game is as close to perfection as video games can come. I've seen so many people get to the first or second main story boss and just give up. These people go on to leave a 5 or less review on this website. Please at least complete 80% of the game before crying and calling the game bad because you couldn't beat a boss. Don't get me wrong, this game will piss you off. Ruthless bosses and enemies being the main contributers to this factor. But they are all set up in a way that makes it fair, even to less experienced gamers. For example, The first main story boss, you can summon a mage named Rogier. This npc will shoot spells at the boss and draw aggro to provide an innate advantage to less experienced players. It is totally okay to absolutely hate this game if that is your opinion, but when you get frustrated and quit after 5-10 hours of playing, then proceed to write a negative review on the game, your opinion becomes invalid.
It started fun but dropped off severely when its gameplay put itself through a wringer. High intensity fights let large issues shine through. This is on PS5. There is the atrocious combo of input delay accompanied by input stacking. You are punished for playing reactively rather than predictively, despite reaction based gameplay being a large part of souls-like games. The input delay can get you slammed with unfair hits you would have dodged otherwise, and then the input stacking will take the action you WANTED to do, and force you to do it after it's needed, at a time where it will most likely cost you. This game is on next gen and has been in development for 13 years with tons of FromSoft release to learn from. There is no excuse for this poor design and such simple technical issues. It could be so much better, but the way it limits itself through these issues makes it unfun and awkward.
2nd souls game after Demon Souls (remake) 50 hr deep , amazing game . Amazing art design, amazing gameplay , needs commitment . Yeah, the graphics are not RDR2 level, but they don't need to be , and I think it would be bad for the game if it had hyperrealistic graphics with the type of content it presents. If you like spoonfeeding games this is not for you . This is a game where you can expres and explore at your own pace!!
Total Masterpiece. An example of how a game should be made. Art direction is top tier, exploration is fun and rewarding, no fetch pointless quests. No filler, all genuine good content. 10/10 would tarnish again.
This being my first souls type game (I had dabbled in dark souls but don’t enjoy linear games too much ARPG or RPG with as much player agency as possible is my preferred game style) I was expecting a lot of pain and upset, however after realising that you can build you character anyway you want and have no direction I was initially a bit concerned. That concerned turned out to be unnecessary, as I progressed started attempting mini bosses and dungeon bosses I began to understand the game. There is a steep learning curve which if you can’t keep up with or don’t give it a chance then you will not reap the benefits. Yes there are minor performance issues but I have had nothing game breaking other than slow texture renders when galloping around on Torrent. The graphics can be a bit lack lustre but I believe the art style can justify this. Once you begin to get better you begin to enjoy the game more I can see a reason anyone would score this game as badly as some reviews have other than people being bitter, and not researching the game before it came out. I mean if you think it looks bad or don’t enjoy the gameplay you can only blame yourselves. The trailers showcases the aesthetic and you should know what to expect by just watching or playing previous FromSoftware games. Once you actually learn the game, understand movement and use your **** brain you realise it’s better than 95% of the **** other developers are spewing out there ****
When the game was being hyped, I’m not going lie, I thought Elden ring would not be able to live up to the hype but how wrong was I. Finishing Elden Ring was the most satisfying experience since beating Sekiro an year ago for me.
I'm writing this review as a BIG fan of From Software games. I feel like it's necessary to preface that I've played Demon's Souls on PS3, Dark Souls, DS 2, DS 3, Bloodborne, Sekiro, the Demon's Souls remake...I really like these games. I platinumed Bloodborne. I thought Sekiro was good, but I found it more difficult than all of the other From games. So...take into account that this is coming from someone that has been "conditioned" to play these games. OK, with that out of the ****! This game is refreshing in the way Breath of the Wild (I know, I know...that comparison is made far too often) was when it came out. Recently, I restarted Horizon: Zero Dawn, because I wanted to finish that game in preparation of Forbidden West coming out. The problem I was running into with H: ZD was that the open world doesn't incentivize the player to explore. **** could. But why? What would you find? Nothing exciting. Open world games need to have a sense of curiosity in the world they drop you in. This idea is similar to the feeling I had when Fallout 3 first came out. I remember sitting in my dorm room, roaming the wasteland. Blood pumping as I'd approach another monument or DC location of interest. They made their open world interesting by contrasting with what is already familiar with the player. While the world of Elden Ring is far from anything that may be familiar to the player, the game finds its own way to do what all open world games need to do. It gives the player a sense of curiosity for its world. You find yourself exploring the countryside, when all of the sudden, the sky turns red. The scenery has a satanic, off-putting sense that makes you feel uncomfortable and that maybe you shouldn't be there. Regardless, you explore, because despite feeling uncomfortable about where you are, you still want to find out what the area has to offer. On a similar note, you find a building that is semi-falling apart. You find the entrance and turns out what's inside is an elevator. You take the long ride down, deep into an underground world you couldn't have known existed. Magical in the serenity it provides. Despite being underground, you look up into a sea of stars. Somehow, it exists despite not making "sense." You see a castle far into the distance, and decide that while the journey to it may not be easy, the fact that reaching it all is possible is gratifying. Something that I can appreciate is not only is the world full of "wow, this is magical" moments. It also has moment of "laugh out loud," wow, this is ridiculous moments. The first time I came across a building sitting on a walking crater with a bell that gongs with every step it takes, I remember thinking "Wow," but also a laugh and a "WTF." A lot of the churches in the game have an NPC to greet you upon entering. To my surprise, I entered a church to find a giant turtle sporting a hat similar to the Pope's. I described this to my wife and told her that if she ever hears me randomly laughing while playing that it's because I came across something like that. Sorry, I know I haven't even starting talking about anything outside of it's world yet. I'm boring when it comes to these games. I play sword and shield. I made my generic-looking younger, brown haired warrior. The character creation suite is undoubtedly their most extensive yet. If you want to fine tune your avatar's chin line, go nuts. Make what you picture to be the most perfect-looking person. Make the most freakish looking monster you could conjure. The combat is standard Dark Souls affair. And either I'm getting better at dodge-rolling or the game is more forgiving. That's not to say that the creative enemies and bosses aren't without their challenges. The game allows you to have other players help you with difficult fights. With it being an aspect of the game, I'll welcome any help I can find. One aspect of the open world that isn't present in other From Software games is that you may find yourself missing areas in early parts of the world, only to come back after a good amount of leveling and looting. Now a boss that might've at one point presented a challenge at one point is easily steamrolled. I write this having not completed the game at this point, but the vastness and level of intrigue this game presents hasn't been met by anything I've played in a long time. I'm saddened that someone that isn't ready for how to play this won't be able to appreciate that magic it provides, but as someone that can appreciate that, this is my game of the year. Maybe my game of the last 5 to 10 years. I'm sorry if the frustration doesn't allow to find the magic. But, if you're ready, prepare yourself for some of the most gratifying gaming experiences you've had in a while. Fantastic game!
So far horizon FW and Elden ring is the 10/10 for me!! This is not that mean it doesn’t have any bug or not! Obviously there is some bug, main reason why I like this game is exploring world giving you real adventures and curious what is in this area!! I find this on horizon forbidden west and elden ring so far!! Maybe because I love open world games!! And people overreact to the difficulty this game is not that much difficult compare to sekiro!! Many people wants to beat the game smoothly and beat all the bosses on their first or second try but nature of this game dying and learning the movements and defeat, once you get this you might be frustrate some point but not disappointed because that’s what we love and expect in this game!! I’m sorry really hard to explain how good is this game but if you worry try on sale period then you’ll be fan of souls games for sure !!
Elden ring is a more balanced approach to it then previous souls games for sure. It's a great game anyone saying it looks like garage is out of they're mind.
You have to be a certain type of person to enjoy a Dark Souls game and Elden Ring is no different. If you like pretentious story telling, mediocre graphics and shockingly frustrating and repetitive gameplay then you will love this overhyped nightmare. The fact this game is getting 10/10 proves we are still in a pandemic hangover.
10/10 Brilliant game. Went into this game with very reserved expectations and i find myself blown away by it.
Other than a few performance issues (which is expected from FS on a PC port) I have absolutely no complaints. I love everything about this game. The map is huge, and while it might seem empty if you start looking you will find fully fleshed out mini-dungeons with fun and hard bosses at the end. The combat just feels like a more refined Dark Souls 3, which is exactly what I wanted, and all of the weapon arts and ashes of war make each fight interesting, rather than just spamming basic attacks. If you have a good enough computer you'll be able to see how good this game looks, and it's obvious how much work they put into the art. The story, which is somewhat hidden from the player like in the other soul's games, seems coherent and interesting at least from what I have played. Easily FromSoftware's best game.
completely unbalanced, awful camera and targeting that make all melee combat completely godawful, is there even a story? if there was more than one actual npc every 10,000 miles to get some lore i'd have a decent idea where to go. also my map is bugged so i can't see crap on it. wonderful. worst open world ever, please fix literally all of the above or it's a dumpster fire. controls are very curious, hard to do more than one thing at a time because the button layout is nonsensical. the UI is never explained, yeah the first hour i was like hey this is cool but then quickly it all starts to fall apart. Oh god horse combat is insane too and not in a good way.
The Game is fun, but too hard. I loved the Souls Games, because they were hard but never unfair. Its different here. 2 to 3 hits from the normal enemies, like birds or bats for instance and youre down. The first games were challenging, this is frustrating. Kinda ruined the whole Game for me. Exploring was so much fun though.
Completely overhyped and overrated. Awful camera, terrible-no-good-very-bad lock system, big empty open world. Overall it's clear that FromSoft are using 'difficulty' as an excuse for the plain fact that their combat system is an antiquated clunky mess compared to more modern games like God of War and Ghost of Tsushima.
It's just everything i ever wanted in a rpg. Best game ever. Thank you Hidetaka Miyazaki.
Pros: - Huge world with incredible vistas - (probably) hundreds of dungeons - excellent graphics - very detailed and in-depth inventory, weapons, magic, items - Challenging but beatable Cons: - Absolute bewilderment for first time players of a soulsborne game. Very little is explained, zero guidance on aims or what anything is or does - Controls are clunky and sometimes unresponsive. For example your character can often swing twice even though you’ve only pressed to swing once and then pressed to roll - very repetitive unless your get excitement from searching for an item you won’t know what impact it will have
I don't want to be banned from playing even such lame games that are full of bugs and do not shine with graphics that reveal all the possibilities of the new generation. generations of hypocrisy and political games.
An open world game must sacrifice some aspects due to the sheer size of the world they're creating. Unfortunately, much of what made the Dark Souls series so good has been lost or greatly reduced. Intricate, well thought out level design is now rare. Most of the various dungeons, castles, mines, and other environments are pretty straight forward. Enemy and boss design seems to have suffered as well. Almost every minor boss is fought numerous times, which kills any sort of uniqueness they had. Also, it feels like the developers are constantly trying to one up themselves. Every major boss has to have an over the top moveset that does a million damage, particle effects, and soundtrack. I am not asking for an easy mode, but I am asking for some competent game design. Overall, it's fine. The first 20 hours are great, but the rest gets tedious. To see such a great developer make a game filled with baffling and outright bad design choice, makes me unable to go above a 7/10.
One of the best games ever made, review bombers and haters seethe and cope.
I've been playing fromsoftware games since 2009, every single one of them are truly masterpieces, Elden Ring is not the exception, and after playing more than 500 games in my whole life, I can say that Elden Ring is the best and most perfect open world ever
Elden Ring was extremely hyped up before release, and usually that leads to a let down fan base, but in this case, it delivered. Its exactly what I wanted from it. Initially I was getting a bit of frame stutter (maybe once an hour lasting a couple seconds), but this seems to be gone now. To date, it is the single best game I have ever played. Pros - The open world is massive - There's an insane amount of optional content. - The game is more accessible ever. More casual fans can grind out levels while exploring, as opposed to grinding the same enemies over and over, making the experience more engaging - The combat system has been expanded upon in a thoughtful way that adds variety in builds - The minimalist UI and hand holding lead to a more immersive experience - Plenty of bosses that are difficult enough to feel rewarding without feeling like the fight is unfair Cons - Cycling target lock appears bugged. Some enemies are just out of reach to cycle onto, but if you unlock, move the camera slightly and then lock again, you can target them. Target lock range should be based on player position and whether the target is on the camera, not if they are close enough to the center of the camera. - Azur Comet needs to be nerfed In short, praise the message!
This is honestly one of the best games that I have ever played. As of the time of writing, I have over 85 hours in the Lands Between. After reading a couple of the other reviews on here, there are some things that I would like to address from my perspective. Graphics: The graphics in this game are absolutely gorgeous. What makes this statement true for me is the art direction. The masterful use of the full color palate had me literally putting my controller down to just take in what I was looking at. While the textures are high quality, they are not as high as other games and I suspect that this is where the complaint originates. Empty World: If a reviewer is using the phrase "empty world," they either have not played the game or define empty very differently than I do. This game is bursting at the seams with content. While this may not be readily apparent as there will be no map markers, their are dungeons littering the map, ranging from relatively small to insanely expansive. An example from the first area: I discovered a well with an elevator. After beginning to ride the lift, I realized that it was going so much further down than I could have ever predicted. When it finally came to a stop, I was in a completely new area of the game, where I needed to find a new piece of the map. This was all under a different masterfully packed open world area. Almost all of these dungeons culminate with a new boss encounter. The map is also full of ruins/encampments to defeat, bosses roaming the map, as well as unique encounters that only happen at certain times of day. I spent almost 20 hours exploring the opening area ALONE. Repetitive Combat: In FROMSOFT games, the combat is defined typically by spamming the button for light attacks. This is made more enjoyable by the unique enemy design. Unlike most games, souls games were able to introduce (at least one but normally at least 2) new enemy types in every single area of the game. This doesn't sound like a lot until you realize DS1 had 24 areas to explore before the DLC came out. Elden Ring is not only much larger, with exponentially more areas and unique enemies, but it also has more unique weapons with expansive move sets, AND DEEPER COMBAT after adding the posture break mechanic, jump attacks, guard counters, customizable weapon abilities and mounted combat. This does not even include the completely revamped magic system with countless spells. Good luck fellow Tarnished!
Might be the best game I have ever played!! The world is a master peice. Everyone should buy this game asap!!
Top 3 best games ever made, easily. I havent felt this hooked to a game in YEARS! 10/10
Probably THE most overrated game of all time, so much useless filler and bosses that just spam attacks over and over. The world is huge but shallow and empty, the story/lore is nonexistent and the whole game is spending hours learning a bosses attack patterns just to beat finally it for zero satisfaction. Stay away from this waste of time.
A beautiful, immersive and challenging game. It follows the old dark souls to the letter, with a dark theme, sinister mobs, a pretty and beautiful world to explore, full of corners and places (in some cases, literally a whole map) totally hidden.
Extremely entertaining! Good learning curve and the world design is amazing. But would have loved some more non aggressive npc's.
The game immersion is destroyed by **** players effectively spamming the game world with messages. **** social / online game design, hopefully the person responsible for this will read this and jump off a cliff
My favorite From Software game to date. It combines all the best elements from previous games and puts them in the best open world I’ve ever seen.
Its super sad to see this game get review bombed as its easily froms best work to date.
It blows my mind how when you go the subreddit to get advice on how to beat a boss the only answer you’ll get is “respec into a magic character” Many reviewers praised this game for “allowing us to play the build we want” and once you reach the late game that statement couldn’t be farther from the truth. This is why reviewers shouldn’t give a game 10/10 when they haven’t even finished the thing.
Elden ring is like the culminating point of all FromSoftware games so far. It is just gorgeous! So beautiful, full of lore and so dense. At first the map seemed so small, but it is so packed with content that now I feel that the world is just enormous. I love the game. It definitely is going to be replayable as most of From games. Still Bloodborne is my all-time favourite.
I didn't think they could outdo Dark Souls 3 & that it had all been done in the other games. And then there was Elden Ring. Amazing refresh, tons of cool new additions, rewarding for noobs and Souls veterans alike. Never coulda pictured a BOTW-style open world until now. A MUST.
This game will be played/replayed for decades. An absolutely stellar experience that shouldn't be missed if you love exquisite, immersive gameplay and next-level art direction. And as far as open worlds go: From has humiliated Ubisoft and usurped Rockstar.
This is one of the most epic games I have ever played. I like it a lot. Bosses are very enjoyable and hard. Perfect game for me. You should try it.
Fantastic open world game. Plenty to do. Typical from soft challenge with plenty to master. Many ways to approach the game depending on play style with the ability to adapt and reset as you progress. Lots to try out building on the soulsborne formula. Graphics are decent but not up to bluepoint standard for dark souls remake.
Elden Ring has some shortcomings with its (legacy) controls and perhaps some people will not like the dialogue (or lack thereof), plus multiplayer is very limited compared to ESO or Final Fantasy, but this game is an amazing first open-world effort from From Software. Very worth your money, ESPECIALLY in a gaming market full of boring, uninnovative titles and consolidated market power. Try Elden Ring and be patient in your playthrough if you're a Dark Souls noob.
Elden Ring is the best game of this year so far no doubt. The Gameplay is so good! The freedom of open world is astonishing asis the world. By playing Astrologer it allows you to enjoy this World without getting your ass kicked every time. Great Game. I am like 25 hours in and I love it. It pretends to be the best game ever for me. But so far Witcher 3 keeps its position. As of right now it is second when it comes to Gameplay and beauty of the world. Edit: I finished it. Took me like 90 hours but it was totally worth it. Made all 3 endings and got the platinum trophy om ps5. Game is astonishing. I keep to everything I wrote above. I highly recommend playing it.
Story 9/10 Graphics 8/10 Gameplay 9/10 Absolute perfection of an RPG. Must play Souls- and Roguelike!!
DON´T BUY, awful gameplay not reactive to modern standards, you cant cancel animations in fights, so not very adaptable, feels clunky and slow against very fast and reactive bosses, this make it some kind of a try-hard resource of the dev's to make it hard but ends up unbalanced. Is not an inmersive world, it has not content, nothing happening, no quest design or logs, basically no history just kill mobs and repeat until you level enough to kill a boss technically feels like a PS3 title, outdated graphics and UI, and the frame rate is awful boring, don´t deserve the score
Easily the best game I have ever played and I've played a lot. There are no performance problems on PS5. Graphics are amazing. Real souls fans will definitely love this game.
Great open world with lots to do, from quests to invading forts and looting caves, mines and tunnels, All are always rewarding. Good story with dense set of characters. Fun gameplay and mechanics with the ability to change your RPG build whenever. Beautiful aesthetics, environments and boss designs, it's also very detailed even for completely optional and missable areas. Best boss fights in any game (tied with KH2).
This game will have its place in gaming History. Tota masterpiece. The world, the fights, the lore and berserk references 10 /10
Great world, great mechanics, average graphics. Another good game from Miyazaki,
NICE VIDEO GAMEEEE I love it its great and The Open world is awesome It deserves that score
That game is a pure masterpiece and therefore a clean and easy 10/10. I don't want to talk too much about why it is a masterpiece (brilliant open-world, world design, gameplay, storytelling, and sound design) I want to talk about the negative review bombs... Just read some of them and you'll see how completely lost some people are. Most of them are these are kinds of people to say: "you can't talk to trees 0/10..." then are those who say: "bUt mA HorIZoN foRbiDden WEsT 0/10"... Lastly there are some who ACTUALLY do have reasonable critiques, like the PC-performance, but since I play on console and my best friend who plays on PC and doesn't have any problems whatsoever, I can't take that into account for my rating.
On my second playthrough. Definitely not a game for everyone, but personally I think it's near perfection. Definitely the best game I've played this year, and possibly the best game I've played in the last 10 years.
This game never disappointed me. able to choose the difficult to explore the difficult level in this game.
I absolutely LOVE this game! Never been so excited for a game in my life! I enjoy every aspect of Elden Ring: massive and beautiful open world, crazy bosses and enemies, variety of weapons, spells and armor(fashion souls, yaay!), tons of secrets to reveal, dongeons and areas to explore.. Everything feels so satisfying! I already know that I'm gonna spend thousands of hours in this game! Thank you, Fromsoftware, for making such unique and special games. It's like a breath of fresh air after all these unimpressive and similar open world games that release nowadays. I'm sure that all our community appreciate that you keep following your path and create a masterpiece for your players! Thank you SO much! For me Elden Ring is not just the game of the year, it's the game of the decade!
people will just complain about everything! the game is an absolute masterpiece and I didnt enjoy a video game for the past fews years except now!
This actually is the best game of all time and you should play it. Its didficult yes but just use guides if you get stuck. Thats better then not playing this game.
This isnt a game this is an EXPRERIENCE, upgraded version of dark souls with an open world! Currently at lv115 with 50+ hrs gameplay. have seen it all but then again this game suprises you with whats next. yes it has some minor/major backdrops (frame drops etc) so what!!!! . cant wait to finish it to start new game+
#Test #Avis #JeuxVideo #ELDENRING  #PS5 PS5Share
Horizon: Forbidden Purchase fans are here crying that their cookie cutter open world game isn't as loved as something that is probably twice its size and three times more exciting. Voting 10 both because of my personal experience and because the review bombers can **** on a big toe.
Probably the best souls game only gripe and it’s a minor one is the crafting system. Feels like it lessened the rewards but as my two favorite games are BotW and Dark Souls, this game feels like a personal love letter to me (even though it feels like a letter to Tolkien, Berserk, and BotW itself). In short, if you like souls series you’ll love this.
A beautiful hard game, it test me from first screen when i realize Asia account doesnt support English, i cant even understand anything from begin because its all Chinese. Why the hell English removed from games nowadays???????
Overhyped and overrated game. Not terrible, but not good either. Feels like the From Software put their B team (Dark Souls 2) on this project. To provide context, I think it important to start by saying I've been a huge fan of the SoulsBorne series since the day Demons Souls was released. I've loved the twisted worlds they've created, the way they reward a combination of creativity, observation and reaction. So here are the FromSoft Games I've finished, and my rough grade: - Bloodborne (A+) - Dark Souls (A) - Demon's Souls (A-) - Sekiro (A-) - Dark Souls 3 (B+) - Dark Souls 2 (B-) With that out of the way, let's talk Elden Ring. From early gameplay video I can tell you I was not excited. The new world and GRRM writing seemed interesting, but I kept waiting for the other shoe to drop: what was this game adding to the formula that made it worth developing? That moment never came, but that not stop the world from reaching maximum hype level about it. A minority raised concerns and complaints with these early videos - about the animations looking reused from DS3, the graphics looking subpar, etc - these people were shouted down. I've also noticed some in the community railing against the game, because their favorite cult series suddenly went mainstream and Twitch trash are turning it into the flavor of the month. That is not me. I will admit I have my biases, and count myself in the group that complained about the reused animations and last gen graphics - however neither of those were dealbreakers for me. Pros: - Bite-sized chalice dungeons that reward exploration. - Huge set of weapons and spells. - The mount is cute and controls well. Cons: - Framerate **** on PS5 w/ performance mode - XP feels super grindy. - Mounted combat is not fun. - So many reused bosses. You'll see the exact same boss multiple times during the game, and they didn't even bother making it look different. (Think the Smelter Demon x4) - Bosses push further down the trend that DS3 set, being more about twitch reaction and DPS checks, rather than rewarding smart play. - Bosses and many enemies seem to have endless combos. This makes ranged combat like archery and magic relatively unbalanced. You're almost guaranteed to trade hits with a boss to get any damage in, bucking the 'call-and-response'/observe-punish gameplay that made the series great. - AI feels really cheap. There seems to be 3 levels of AI awareness: Oblivious, aggroed, road raged. Enemies often stand around doing nothing. A lot of enemies have cheap AOE abilities that come out quicker than is possible to react and move out of damage range. These usually are ground stomps, earthquakes caused by weapon slams, etc. The area affected is not well indicated, and feel really cheap. The only way to avoid them is to get lucky with I-frames on your roll. - The world feels really boring. Much of it is empty. Geometry and decorations seem randomly strewn about. Outdoor dungeons make no sense, like in a Dark Souls 2 way. Things will link together in ways that don't make sense. There is even a castle with a big gate and a draw bridge, and when you get inside... you go up an elevator... like wtf... - Most of the NPCs are really generic and boring. Their dialogue writing and voice acting is poor, and they carry on with exposition about meaningless things. - The opening cinematic is a huge step back from other Soulsborne games. - The non-weapon item designs are dumb, and don't seem to fit any sort of cohesive theme like the other games. - UI screens, especially the inventory screens are really poorly designed. They lack the character of previous games. They give you way too much information and not enough at the same time, and navigating them is a real chore of contextual toggle buttons. The font and backgrounds are very generic and lack that FromSoft character. - The item descriptions are now only a single byline sentence, where before they provided so much lore and character to the world, now I don't feel any reason to read them. - The color grading is ugly. - Summoning spells are passive and lame, and really don't fit with the gameplay. - So many encounter and enemy designs have been reused. It honestly feels like a FromSoft greatest hits compilation than any sort of original design. If you're a fan of the series, you'll find yourself saying 'oh hey, that's X from Y game. Only it has been reskinned.' - Some boss fights are a huge chore. Running around the enemy in circles while locked on (a'la Sekiro), getting a single hit in for 1% damage, waiting 30 secs, getting another hit. It's a real slog - even with good upgraded weapons and gear. - The crafting system ****. Costs way too many souls for key ingredients from shopkeepers. Adds nothing of value, and requires you to pick up respawning ingredients on the map - one of my least favorite mechanics in modern games (Elder Scrolls).
By far the best open world RPG I have played in a decade. From Soft has really set the bar high for any game that comes after this master piece. Game Play 10 Graphics 10 Fun Factor 10 Quest Lines 10 Hell its all a 10 imo I play on the PS5 so I didn't have the frame rate drops like the PC did. If you like punishing but not to punishing open world RPGs you will get lost in this game, and not come out till it is finished....which is a very long time.
Really love this game. I never played a souls game before and it is as difficult as I heard, unless you over leveled. The open world is amazing. The game doesn't really lead you to anything so some things may require a quick google or YouTube video. All the variety of weapons are super fun. A couple seemed a little OP, but they could be patched at some point. Really no complaints, once you learn you can't go balls out every time and have to play strategically it gets even better. And killing your first boss is super rewarding. So if you don't mind alot of trial and error and very little to no hand holding definitely give this game a go.
If you get enough preparation early on, the game is playable. So much fun, so many areas to be explored, you can let go your joystick, honestly.
Honestly breathtaking. On PS5 I have had zero issues. I don't usually write reviews for games on here, but with the sad situation of salty game Devs and their salty fans creating new Metacritic accounts with the sole purpose of review bombing a brilliant game, I wanted to add my two cents. First off, more than one game can be good at any given time. I feel like a lot of people need to hear this. That being said, Elden Ring is one of the few games I have played in recent memory that not only lived up to the hype and promises made, but surpass both, greatly. It is absolutely stunning. FROM has created a world that feels so lived in. This isn't just an open world so it can say it's an open world game, it's an open world that actually doesn't feel empty. Which is shocking if you look at the size of the map! And there are things to discover or miss in every corner of that map. This adds so much to the exploration. The fact that it is left completely up to us, the player, how and where we want to play and/or explore is so refreshing. Just last night, I was running through and area I had been through countless times in my currently over 70 hours of play time, feeling like a God, when I encountered an enemy I had never seen, that promptly ended me and brought me down off my high horse. I was shocked, stunned, and absolutely giddy with excitement. The gameplay is brilliant, they have been refining it over years, and anyone can see it. It is effortless in its execution. Are there changes that could be made? Of course, as with absolutely any game that has ever been made, especially so soon after release. Do they dampen the experience to a point where I, even slightly, don't enjoy the game? Not for even one second. A lot of people have complained that the "graphics are awful" and that it's "absolutely hideous." These are absolute lies from people really looking for something to complain about. Are the level of the graphics the same as different games recently released? Can you see every strand of hair separately blow in the wind? No you can't, but bad, the graphics are most certainly not! The game is still beautiful! The atmosphere, the story telling, the exploration, the actual game play, and how these all make you as a new tarnished feel while exploring the world for the first time, they are what make this game what it is, brilliant.
Truly a masterpiece never seen a world this dense in content, tons of dungeons, different enemy types hundreds of armours, weapons, magic all with individual lore that ground them in the world. Amazing soundtrack, and stunning Environments. Sadly very poor performance, you go for graphics or Frame-rate when you do a game, this goes for None of those, when ether would be fine. If it had stable frame rate it would be 10/10 fancy graphics do not matter to me when the art is this good, but at least make it Stable fps on PS5 really laggy at times.
GREATEST open world I've played. There is a lot of content, im talking hours of stuff to do. Really enjoyed! Some same weapons and spells from dark souls series, but if its not broken then don't fix it. Love the ability to customize weapons. This make an endless amount of builds To those giving this game a 0 because of difficult bosses, heres sum advice: Git Gud :)
Amazing game, a simple Dark Souls game but very entertaining, full of references to other video games, mangas and tv shows, this game simply makes me wanna play forever, the attention to detail is very good, the battle bosses are very entertaining, exiting and skillful, loved this game, has to be a Goty
OMG. I’m not a pervert. I’m not a sadistic either. I am no idea what the **** hell kind of madness people call this a masterpiece.
A genre re-defining game. The amount of care and thought put into this game is ridiculous. Souls veterans will feel right at home while newcomers have the accessibility to jump on in. From world building to design the game is damn near perfect. One of the best games made.
open world masterclass. game is challenging but just as rewarding. Doesn't hand hold your way through the game, devs weren't afraid to create a world where the gamer may miss some of the things they worked hard on, the penultimate goal was creating a vibrant open world where the user is involved. NPC's feel like people living in the world rather than checkpoints or worse, random pixels on your screen made to look like a human. PS5 performance isn't ideal, some hang ups but the game looks gorgeous (especially on HDR)
All of the best aspects of Demon's Souls, the Dark Souls trilogy, Bloodborne, and Sekiro are culminated in this game within a massive open world. Fans of the series will absolutely love it. It's incredibly unique, challenging, and satisfying. The story is intriguing and told similarly to the previous games. While I think review bombing on this game is a little unnecessary, I do understand how newcomers to this series will find this game daunting and asking perhaps a little too much. It's never been for everyone, but in a game that you will at least need to commit 70+ hours to, it can be a tall order. But for me, as a huge fan of the series, it ticks every single box I have for a video game. I am confident I'll be playing this one repeatedly for years.
This game is extremely fun! I've never played a dark souls game so I was intimidated by the difficulty of elden ring, but I broke down and bought it and I am glad I did. I got slaughtered by everything at first but with some time roaming the beautiful open world, and upgrading my character I was able to beat some of the bosses with ease.
I LOVE: - how hard the game is by design (it's challenging) - great graphics (ps5) - great scary / tense atmosphere - the use of hiding being a key threat response I don't care for or am frequently frustrated by: - How incredibly easy it is to miss hitting an enemy, even one who is point blank, not moving, cowering on his knees right in front of me. That seems to come from disappointing precision and intent-adjusted collision enablement / detection capabilities I HATE !!! : 1) My friends and I really hate how terrible the multiplayer teaming has been designed. - The open world is not open world for your friends, their only objective is to help you kill an area boss - The process to actually connect a friend to my game or vice versa is among the most labor-intensive of it's kind that I've seen - A death experienced by people in my world fully removes them from my world (aka, my group) and recovery only comes from repeating the laborsome process above - There is no way for friends to sustain each other (no revive, heal requires unreasonable proximity (as do caster dps abilities, no resource / loot sharing) The part we hate is likely to prematurely sour our fun too much and push us away. I value the survival nature of the game but the process used now is really no different than the mobile games that force me to wait time before I can **** are forcing me to wait the time it takes me to find those flowers and make the pieces to summon **** then meander about trying to find where they put their little runes I have to click on. It feels almost exactly like what work feels like only the game is less scary and tense than work.
Elden Ring is the magnum opus from developer From Software and delivers in every facet. BUT, if you are not accustomed to Souls games or have trouble being left alone in a game with no help this game might not be for you. It's a shame though that people are giving this game negative reviews for minute details such as frame rate drops and difficulty but then negating the vast open world, deep combat system, gameplay mechanics, lore, music, art design, and the many other things this game delivers on. I have played every From Software game and can easily say Elden Ring is the hardest, but if you dedicate your time to exploring the world and the treasures it has to offer, you can easily level up enough to make any boss a cake walk. To touch on the exploration aspect of the game if you choose to not explore the world and rush your way through onto the main bosses you are missing the quintessential part of Elden Ring, the discovery and unfolding lore of the Lands Between. While you ride your spectral steed Torrent you'll see vast mountains with castles, forests, dilapidated churches, and if you can see it you can you can explore it. Much of the gameplay is spent through finding places to loot for items that will make your character stronger to inch their way towards becoming the Elden Lord. The bosses are some of From's best ever, many of them in my most difficult bosses in any game. The side characters give you so much information about the world helping paint the broken fragments of the Lands Between. I can say so much more to exemplify why this game truly is a masterpiece, but my biggest compliment is that I have beaten the game 3 times, earned 100% completion, collected every item, and I cant wait to do it all over again. If you can handle the difficulty and lack of hand holding Elden Ring is a must play game that truly is era defining.
No journal to keep track of NPC. Combat is just bad. Dodge dodge dodge land a hit repeat. if you die twice you loose all your money,exp gems. i know many people find this type of games rewarding but most people dont have time for this kind of crap. if you want to loose hours just for 1 boss feel free. this is a waste of time for people that have 1-2 hours max per day to relax and play some games
Let's start by saying that I played, replayed, and loved the DS games. Let's also preface this with me admitting that I saw the reviews for the game before playing it and that may have affected my expectations. Anyway, I wonder if most of the critics played this on console. I played it on PC and it's very far from the near-perfect experience most of them promised. The controls alone are some of the clunkiest I've seen. G for map, E + an arrow key (and if you're on a 60% keeb, this is really annoying), etc. There's also the way it almost seems designed to make things difficult for you unnecessarily if you're on a KB+M. Yes, I know the usual advice: play it with a controller instead, and so on. But if you release something for PC, you should plan for KB+M. You shouldn't expect your players to have to invest in a controller for a single game that has already cost them $60. It's clear that even after all the critique levelled at them for doing the same thing in DS games, FromSoft still hasn't learned a thing about porting to PC or KB+M play. You'd be astonished how flawless your own gameplay can be only to be interrupted repeatedly by a camera seizing control or the auto-targeting locking onto a mosquito when you're trying to deliver a final blow to a boss. That's my main gripe, but it's not the only one. There's also the frame-skipping and input lag. I haven't died to any bosses yet, but I'm guessing it's only a matter of time before that instability hits me at a critical moment. And I'm on a 5950x with a 3090. Yes, I've heard the argument to just treat this as another hurdle or another level of difficulty to make the game more interesting, by the way. But while I don't mind intentional difficulty, I mind sloppy sources of annoyance. I don't play games to be irritated by someone else's oversights or laziness. Finally, I'm a little let down by parts of the game, I think. I like some things - some things genuinely seem new and add interesting mechanics to the gameplay FromSoft offers. But too many things seem to still be stuck in the DS world. I've seen bosses like these before. I've seen enemies like these before. Maybe the promise of something new and revolutionary got me expecting too much. But this was neither new nor revolutionary. I'm almost done playing through it, and I'm thinking I won't replay it... which isn't how I want to feel after playing an open-world game.
After 50 hours of play I changed the grade from 4 to 9, really the game is very good
Greatest game in a decade. Elden Ring divers on all fronts, allowing freedom to explore while also sharing a wondrous world with anyone brave enough to explore it.
This was my first Soulslike game since i always kind of thought the gameplay and combat would be clunky and that would be the main thing why these games were difficult. But this game might have my most favourite combat out of all games i have played. The bosses are amazing, the world is so beautiful, mystical and unique with so much to explore and the many ways the story of the world was told made me engage with the game in a way I have never before.
This is Exactly what you want from the souls genre and creators. Huge open world and mounts!
IGN Japan's Review was a complete inversion of every truth about the game. It is tedious and filled with chores. Many enemies are merely a part of the scenery. The game encourages dull exploration and then changes it up on a dime with a randomly-placed boss. The game is awful, overrated, is possibly worse than even Dark Souls 2, the black sheep of the Souls family, and that is saying a lot from me, because I think Dark Souls 2 is one of the worst games ever made. A horrifying tour-de-force in how to remain frustrated for 10 hours of your day trying to complete the chore list and 50+ annoying boss encounters. Just as a redditor admitted hitting his wife out of frustration against Margit, the first main boss. The game is awful, terrible, and I cannot stress it enough. Also, there is no story. There's not even a lore. Not even if you look for it. Every single positive reviewer was paid off. This game should never have been made, and George R.R. Martin contributed nothing worthy of note. EDIT: I am making a further edit to my initial impressions. When you take the game in small bits, take your time to explore everything and build up your inventory, and also make sure not to take on Margit, the first primary boss too early, you might find enjoyment. The latter half of the game is very difficult, and once you get to Godskin Duo, you had better be very overleveled. Overall, the beginning of the game is enjoyable, but the second half is balls-to-the-wall hard due to game tuning issues. Edit2: The game further drops off in quality after Limgrave and Weeping Peninsula. Very much DS2 vibes. Overall not good.
Dark souls on steroids. There's so much replay value that I'll be playing this game for years to come. A beautiful well crafted masterpiece. Thanks FromSoftware.
What a sensational game. Varied in everything from monsters to objects and scenarios. The more I play the more I want to play. Extremely addictive!
So my brother begged me to play this game with him because we were looking for a new co op game to play together. Though I wasn’t a dark souls fan I caved in because he said it was different. So right out the gate your thrown into battle not being told anything. Ok heard it was a little difficult so I’ll have to learn as I play. Which became one of my issues with the game. It tells you nothing just go. I learned later that there was a tutorial at the beginning. Doesn’t make sense to have it but hide it away from players. In that first hour of playing I tired to join up with my brother to play and neither of us could figure it out. As he watched videos on how to do it I explored some more. I was playing as a mage and what became very annoying was when I ran out of mana I’d tried to use a potion and I was left with an animation where he would just scratch his ass then shrug his shoulders then being killed. This would also happen when trying to use a summon in a boss fight. So we finally got the co op to work and as a mage I was now restricted to only 2 potions and no check points to restore them making me a warrior very quickly in the battle. After beating a boss you are kicked out of the game and must remake the item’s which isn’t hard to rejoin. So realizing that this game would take longer to play in co op we played solo instead. After running into box collecting missions it hit me I have no clue what this world is about and how to find what missions I’ve started. I get the whole you’ll find it when you come across it but I’ve forgot which castles or locations they asked me to go to. Then brought me back to the main story in the game. What is it. Why does everyone I talk to hate me then beg me for help. Why hire someone to help write your story but there is none. So I continued on for another few hours and butt scratching moments when I came across so more issues that I really wasn’t playing attention to at the beginning. The controls are bad. You’ll get locked in a animation. Then when they start to attack and your smashing the dodge. Your number one move in game. Being quickly chopped down. Doesn’t help either when enemies are stuck in the walls or inside chest and can attack you but you can’t hit them. PvP to me is very cheesy and should be for those who wish to play it. After killing a boss and trying to return to a check point I’m interrupted multiple times by another player then losing all my runes. Just to spawn back into game where another player joins game causing me to lose everything I just worked so hard to get. So in end I was left with any butt scratching. I wanted to like this game but couldn’t. Frame rate drops made things more difficult between the multiple rolls and butt scratching I’d go through. Story 1/10 controls 4/10 pve 1/10 pvp 7/10 when wanting to do so. Visually 8/10 sound 9/10. It feels more like a sandbox rpg then anything else.
The design of this game is just on another level. Only complaint might be some needlessly complicated mechanics/lack of explanation, but this may be just a challenging aspect to learn. In fact my entire playthrough so far has been a learning experience, which is so unlike most other games today in which you aren't required to be engaged and thinking to advance. Beautiful graphics, compelling story, stellar gameplay, vast sense of continual discovery and progression, one of the greatest of all time.
Elden Ring is a good game, but it has its share of problems. While playing 100+ hours I've experienced some outstanding highs and lows. I don't think its Fromsoftware's best title but I think its worth a play. Random ramblings to follow: - art direction is awesome but graphically the engine is really showing its age which is a shame. there is only a single directional light for shadows (usually the sun) and the lighting model is no where near the bar for todays next gen games - speaking about the engine, it suffers from performance problems where frame rate tanks during load ins and poor pop in where you can see things like grass and other details be placed in the world spread out over a few frames - design wise the open world mixed with dungeons is a new take which I enjoyed. It was something new. I still prefer the original Dark Souls design as I think it was the purist design but this is something new and I am ok with it. - the first half of the game things are exciting and interesting, but like most open world games, things get repetitive after that. it becomes a repeat of the same dungeons, the same bosses over and over. by then your character is also pretty much setup so there is little reason to continue. the story is nonsense so that is not a motivator - there are real, real problems with how this design has influenced multiplayer. Coop is fine, but invasions are completely broken. They are essentially 3 vs 1 gank squads where the invader has a near zero chance at winning. To win, the invader needs to rely on cheap tactics, luck, or play against someone not very good at the game. When the invader does win it never feels satisfying. Gone are the intense PVP battles from other titles, or the adrenalin rush when someone invades your game. This game played it very safe when it comes to multiplayer and loses one of the core things that make souls games exciting which is very unfortunate. PVP is also very unbalanced, but I don't think really any of Fromsoftware's titles have been so this is not a shocker. But this one does feel the worst as magic and art of war skills are extremely OP. - boss battles are very much a mixed bag. They are better than other titles where you simply try to get behind an enemy and wack its ankles over and over but there are some choices that really do take away from the enjoyment. Every boss has extra delays in the attack animations put in purposely to throw you off. I get it, and I think that is ok for some, but its like that in every fight. Bosses will take to the air in and arial attack and defy gravity for a split second just to make it more difficult. Too much anime for my taste. - Combat suffers from a general lack of polish and laziness from Fromsoftware. Enemies will attack straight through walls as if they don't exist. Many times, you might not even be able to see an attack coming because it was through a pillar. Its feels incredibly lazy not to add a line of sight check and creates an unfair bad feeling. Bad feeling moments crops up in many places throughout the game. For example, during one boss fight due to a bug with the character movement code, I kept getting stuck on a tiny step in the environment while trying to run or roll that would allow the boss to kill me (it only takes 1-2 hits from a boss to kill you which is another thing). There is a bunch of jank that should have been found and fixed in QA or by now being how many games Fromsoftware has made in this style by now. The player should feel like they lost due to a mistake they made, not due to lack of polish in the game's systems or a bug. As a game developer myself, I am surprised with how much Fromsoftware can get away with. This is essentially the same combat and physics system they had dating back to the original Demon Souls. Anyway, its still a good game but I am slightly disappointed. The sense of scale and exploration is awesome but these issues tarnish a really good game. The mishandling of the PVP design was the nail in the coffin for me. Without a solid PVP design I have little motivation to put in anymore time in to this game.
In the run-up, there was great enthusiasm, as none other than "Game of Thrones" author George RR Martin had co-written the story for the fantasy game. What "Elden Ring" delivers is almost cheeky: A magic ring broke, evil monsters grabbed the fragments. At least hobbits don't have to make their way... The main plot of the game is clear, boring and predictable, George RR Martin's commitment (who only wrote the background story of the environment mentioned) was apparently little more than a PR stunt. Anyone who has seen titles like "Horizon Forbidden West" or "Halo Infinite" will be disappointed with the graphics of "Elden Ring". Textures are muddy, objects keep popping up instead of appearing smooth as you approach them, and the design of each region is more reminiscent **** designed for the previous generation of hardware. Anyone who likes to fail will love "Elden Ring". The game punishes even small mistakes with brutal severity, while at the same time being stingy with tips and explanations. So you have to work hard for each fight, start over and over again and blindly search for the optimal combination of tactics, equipment and timing in order to slay the many bosses. Overall, "Elden Ring" is only for real hardcore gamers. Anyone who likes to charge against the same monster twenty times will love the title. Even fans of an open game world should definitely take a look at this game. But one thing should be clear to everyone: "Elden Ring" is actually not a "game", but bitter seriousness.
Please, do not listen to the resentful people who criticize this game because they are not able to pass the first zone of the game because it is too difficult or because the game has a fps pull every 7 hours. This game is a masterpiece regardless of whether you like it or not, just as you may not like classical music but no one would say that Beethoven is overrated, the experience that Elden Ring offers you is simply spectacular. It has flaws like any game but the positive things it offers far outweigh the small flaws, spectacular atmosphere, unique scenario design, epic confrontations, just enjoy and stop insulting something you don't understand.
The perfect amalgamation of all the previous souls games. They took the best parts of bloodborne and ds3 and combined it with some new mechanics. Finally we are able to more freely play with build experimentation in a single play through. No limits to respects mean every time you want to adjust or change your build you can. Map traversal is more rewarding than ever for exploration and at the same time more simple thanks to statues and graces being so abundant. Not having to run back through whole levels just to get back to a boss is a huge improvement from previous titles. I think they’ve proved you can have a open world game that’s not just the same copied garbage over and over. I’m over a hundred hours in and I still keep finding secrets that I missed and encounters that I wouldn’t expect out in the middle of seemingly nowhere. To date, this is the best game in the franchise, and that’s saying something since bloodborne is still my favorite game.
The game is near perfect… in most areas. There are definitely some enemies and quite a few bosses that are less than fun to encounter because they have long unpredictable attacks with very narrow and misleading openings during which you can attack. Also I very much dislike instances of non-player character interactions happening with no consent of the player. Exploring the map shouldn’t have a chance of holding your runes hostage because you wandered into an invasion you might not even know is possible with a lot of runes. The game does have compelling combat that gives genuine satisfaction when you defeat a hard enemy or boss! Even if they felt unfair you still feel so accomplished after you win on the first try or after dozens of deaths. The game is beautiful and rich with themes and flavor! The game is a 9/10 without the flawed enemy encounters mentioned above. An 8/10 with them. I would totally recommend it to anyone who can take many failures without losing faith.
Decent From Software game, but performance is abysmal. Non-stop stuttering is making it borderline unplayable. Low score until fixed
Honestly, this game is breathtaking. It is the staple for future open world experiences. Take note devs of the world. #chefkiss
Phenomenal open-world experience Elden Ring combines the intense Souls-style combat From Software is known for with a world that rivals in size to Skyrim. I've spent 60+ hours traversing the various locations within the game and I am STILL finding things I missed before! With a varied skill tree and no real guard rails, every player is capable of having their own unique experience, exploration and perseverance are rewarded with powerful weapons, spells, armor, side quest progression and new areas to explore. PC players be cautious, the port is not perfect, and due to it's current popularity the servers are overwhelmed. However I find it very hard to criticize this game given the scope and effort put into it. Probably the biggest reason I recommend this game is due to the social aspect surrounding it. You WILL see and do things your friend might miss, and the UI is meant to be communicated amongst players. Multiplayer is it's own unique experience, and the game (like prior titles) allows you to leave helpful messages for future adventurers to read. Just don't fall for the pranks that come from some of these messages.
It's just fun to explore The map is also vast Even after playing for 150 hours, there are still new discoveries and the end never comes An open world game with unprecedented battle fun
An Absolute genre defining masterpiece. A refreshing change from the copy paste RPGs that hold your hand like a child the entire game. This game will change the face of RPGs being released play it NOW! the only reason it’s not rated 10/10 is butt hurt Ubisoft employees and others that their terrible hand holding copy paste RPGs aren’t getting the praise this wonderful game deserves. Oh it’s also players that are terrible at the game and players who gate keep the dark souls series. I wouldn’t take any of them seriously.
Never tought I would see Dark Souls mixed with open-world and the fact that it somehow works? Amazing game, the only thing I can bring up against is the performance, but FS is already working on it and for me at least it isn'T that bad.
best souls game i have ever played. Amazing open world, bosses, lore. 10/10 would recommend
Fromsoft has masterfully taken staple soulsborne mechanics from previous games and expanded upon all of the best facets of their previous designs by incorporating them into one experience. Both players who enjoy a very difficult game and those looking to take it a bit easier can enjoy Elden Ring, as it caters to both interests while still maintaining the stellar genre blueprint that has made Fromsoft games so popular.
The culmination of FromSoftware's decade long game out-of-the-box game development. Not for people who have never played or liked games in the genre and are content with the heavily cluttered open worlds, spoon fed exploration, mile long quest logs and rerewardless combat. For all the others, this is life!
The game took so long to be released, and I didn't feel rewarded for the wait… Elden Ring for me is just another game doing the bare minimum, lots of bugs, the exploration of the game is unsatisfactory and even repetitive.
This is the best game fromsoftware has made. Adds all the best elements of their previous games and amplifies them to 11.
the game is super fun. the graphics are simply amazing. definitely one of the best games I've ever played in my life.
It's a great game! All you review bombers are loses!!! I've played hundreds of games and this is by far one of the best.
From Software took open-world RPGs to the next level with the world design. Just when you thought the world could not expand, you discover a new area. The art direction is beautiful. The enemies are punishing. Exactly what you would expect.
1. A boring repetitive empty giant open world. Generic and recycled bosses and enemies; 2. The same old-style FromSoftware way of telling a story: a boring puzzle that has to be solved through reading hundreds of items descriptions and cryptic conversations with stoned NPCs; 3. Clunky combat system and light-speed bosses from Tekken: rolling through infinite AoE attack combos just to land one or two strikes, repeat; 4. Few pieces of equipment and terrible drop rates. You kill a boss just to receive some useless material; 5. Very beautiful art direction, BUT terrible graphics; 6. Poor performance; 7. Different from Dark Souls, and the others, Elden Ring is mediocre at building tension. Dark Souls is a game that has you always under pressure, theres is little to no rest. You can only feel safe when you're resting at a bonfire. When you play for the first time, you never know what to expect. Enemies are strategically placed, as well as traps. And they're everywhere, all the time. Elden Ring can't do this. There are long pauses to "commune with nature", because the big empty open world is not threatening. You can see the enemies from distance, and you're never caught by surprise. The way from Ruin A to Ruin B is safe and sound... And once you approach Ruin B, you know "ok, now I'll face some challenge", at this moment, there's no tension, it was ruined by the anticipation. You always know what to expect and when; 8. Multiplayer is the same old song: dependant on consumable items and limited to smoke walls. FS could have delivered a true multiplayer, but they are too addicted to the same old colorful phantoms paradigma. Am I saying the game is not good? No, I'm not. I'm just convicted that Elden Ring is far from being the Eight World Wonder that media wants it to be. Way too far from 97 on Metacritic. In my opinion, the worst among it's siblings.
The beste game from Miyazaki so far and it doesn't deserve this low user score. given, this game (just like any other soulsborne game), is not intended to be liked by everyone. from software (or in particular Miyazaki) creates worlds where they establish their (oftentimes twisted) fantasies which happened to be liked by a small community. this community grew over the past years larger and larger (probably because more and more people got tired of plain guided 0815 story games) to a point, where elden ring created so much hype, that a lot of people from outside the community got **** in. so naturally, there are people that expected their standard game format and got not even closely to what they expected. no questlog, way too hard, no quick safe, blah blah blah... but to complain about a game not being what you expected, even though you had no idea what you could expect from the franchise, is a bit hypocritical. that's like buying need for speed and complaining it's no race simulator like gran turismo. so yeah, i think the critics score and the player score are both reasonable, but not fair. the critics knew what was coming and reviewed it under known aspects of the franchise, while the user score results due to the mentioned misconceptions. to me, this game is all i could have ever asked for. i love digging into the lore and trying to find out wtf is happening, as well as having to form a strategy to beat a boss, instead of just spamming my best move over and over (let's ignore the sword of night and flame for sec). but i get it, people don't like it because it's not the casual entertainment you can relax to for an hour after work (or school), just coming down and not having to put too much time or brain in. so in conclusion: the game doesn't deserve the negative feed-back it gets, but I can understand where it's coming from. nonetheless, this is the best game from software has published so far! im already past 50+ hours into it and haven't even closely finished my first run.
I really like it. It’s fun, and difficult. I see why everyone says that it’s just the same as the other souls games, but it’s a formula that works, similar to call of duty.
Just an absolutely stunning looking and stunningly good game. Open world at its finest
It is a 10 out of 10 game, the world is so huge and full of stuff to explore IDK why some peopel gives it 5 or 6 without a good reason, the combat is great and also the weapons are so unique and there something called "Ash of war" it is a thing u can add to your weapon so it can preform a unique skill. The boss are so fu*king epic and their cutscene are a piece of art, u have a lot of ways to fight them weather it was ranged or close fight. And the best thing about this game is the freedom it gives u almost at the start of game u can go anywhere u want , find a new Npc or go to a cave fighting a boss or farming to get stronger or maybe finding new spells or geting a new weapon. The Lands between is yours to exploer u can do anything you want. The npc are very interesting and have their own story to tell some of them will have a sad fate and some u can help them to achieve what they want the game does not forc you to do any of this, it completely your chose. Hope this helped you
After getting the plat i can safely say that the game is incredible. The performance isn't flawless on ps5 but the Gameplay, World, OST and Story overshadow this flaw entirely.
Hilarious seeing review bombers cry about the game, if you want spoon feeding game mechanics and hand holding every step of the way then this isn't the game for you.
Given the game has a few minor flaws, the overall work that has been done here doesen't fall short of beeing an outstanding masterpiece. Serious game of the year material.
One the bast games i have playd when you play this game make sure you have lots of time and explre as much as you can its fun deffiting somone who beats you and this game summning and ashs of war can be broken if you play it right i went for 2 samuri katanas one with thesapuke and one with the bloodhund dash and its so much fun dud ceep in mind this game is hard
Truly a masterpiece. A generation-defining game for years to come. Incredible attention to every detail, enemies and bosses are perfectly balanced, controls are flawless, characters are numerous and they're all interesting and amazing, the story is truly enthralling. Guerrilla Games really did it this time, this is truly a 10/10 game
Full discloser, I'm a huge fan of the "soulsborne - shadows die a bunch series". I've got 100's of hours in the souls trilogy, platinum trophy in Sekiro and Bloodborne, and i'm about 3/4 through the Demons Souls remake. that being said, i hate game hype. i see hype trains and avoid them like the plague because I am typically disappointed in the end result. So, i avoided any hype for Elden Ring and went in to this game completely blind, just because i trust the developers track record. And my goodness. This game has taken a format that i love and somehow has polished it and tweaked it to become one of the most satisfying games i think i've ever played. Open world games have become fairly cookie-cutter in the last decade or so and i was very suspicious about what direction this game would take. would it be dark souls with towers to climb and 1000 collectibles to check off a list? with fetch quests and objective markers? everything we know to be part of the AAA open-world space? nope, they spat in the face of the norm, even alienating some potential player in the process, to make something that actually feels fresh and new in a space that is mired in the old. Sure, it feels like dark souls, combat wise, but it's polished and rebalanced to feel like something familiar but new. and its take on the open world is something that i didn't even know i was looking for. No hand holding, no clear cut paths or clunky fetch quests, no repetitive checklist collectibles. just a beautiful, brutal, hand crafted world that you get dumped in to and have to forge your own path and adventure. Truly one of the greatest games to come out in recent history, if not a contender for best game of all time.
One of the best games I've ever played. There is so much to discover. The feeling when you find an entire BIOMS, with several amazing bosses, new enemy types, and new lore to discover. I just cannot describe how good that feels, the exploration is so rewarding. You can skip an entire areas without ever knowing if you won't take your time exploring. And the art direction, as in the any other FS games, just makes you speechless.
One of the worst games i have ever played,bad graphics,bad looking environment and color palette,bad combat **** can play the whole game by just rolling like Sonic the Hedgehog.
One of the finest pieces of media i have ever consumed. and i haven’t even beaten it. never before has a game made me feel this engrossed and immersed and rewarded. the progression and flow of this game is completely up to you. not ready to fight a boss? go do something else. it really is that easy. there’s always something else to do there’s always more things to kill more levels to get more weapons to find. this is a living world and you can choose to be a part of it, the game won’t care either way. you can either only do the main quest and say you played the game. or you can choose to be a part of the world, and say you LIVED the game. this is an experience people will be talking about and analyzing for years to come. it is truly a landmark in gaming history that everyone who played will forever be glad to be able to say that they were there. i’m 50 hours in and i don’t think i’m even close to being done with the first area. i have no reserves calling this the best game ever made. do yourself a favor and play it.
It is extremely rare in a sand box game to actually make you want to explore EVERY inch of a map after over 30 hours of playing I am still going over every hill, around every corner off the beaten path searching for everything and anything as this game rewards you for exploring in ways games by ubisoft or even breathe of the wild didn't do. The combat/difficulty of some bosses yes will cause you to be frustrated, have you turn around and continue your quest in another direction till you come back and get that sweet satisfaction of victory after levelling and memorizing a bosses move sets, that's just part of the game. No, not for everyone but if you're at the start of the game and feeling stuck and frustrated I urge you to grind out a few levels (just go explore guaranteed you've missed a lot) and keep at it, the games difficulty steeply plateaus out after the first boss as you get the hang of not panic dodging and this game absolutely just takes you away. Few games **** you in to the world like this one anymore and that's all without lengthy huge cinematic pieces that spoon feed you all the gaming storylines. Is a ten score a bit of an exaggeration? Maybe and ONLY due to minor graphical stuttering I've experienced but with the amount of people reviewing this game poorly simply due to their inability to learn how to play this game I feel good about bumping this from a 9 to a 10 since we all know games just come out a little rough at the start. There is nothing in the core game that needs to be fixed, just some smoothing out of some bugs and we have a masterpiece on our hands.
„Waaaa Waaa copy paste sounds waa“ „Waaa no story waaa“ „Waaa it‘s hard waaa“ Best Souls Game ever. Get good and don‘t fight Tree Sentinel first and say the game is bad. Game of the Year.
I think the graphics are actually not that great. And the controls are weak. Repeat Repeat Repeat.
Fromsoftware delivered again. Its the most dense and beautiful open world yet, it's full of moments that will make you surprised, from the beginning to end.
Sometimes all you need to do, is just get good with the in-game mechanic. This is the first open-world souls game, with various vistas and corner to explore which will rewards you (or punished you) in a unexpectable way. A word of warning though, it's extremely addictive and challenging so make sure you only ventured in it in your free time.
It's a mediocre but fun open-world game where the main point is just to fight different bosses. Fun for anyone who wants to experience Dark Souls or want some sort of gaming challenge. But there is no deep story to it. Just figure out how and defeat the bosses. Why? Because they exist. Open-world just let you choose which bosses you want to fight. I prefer games with stories not just open-world full of different types of creatures to defeat. I prefer games with technical innovation, graphical innovation, deep story, intriguing conversations and characters. The graphics is outdated, the combat system is outdated and there is no story. So why my high score? This game can be mindless fun. When Witcher 3 was created it was innovative in the time of creation. This game is not innovative. It's innovative Dark Souls game. That's it.
This is a must have for any Soulsborne fan! This is basically next level Dark Souls in an open world and I can't think of a more perfect combination.
One of the greatest games ever made. The world build is insane. Just so impressed with how the story is unfolding and how everything looks. Some of these boss fights are some of the most inventive ideas I’ve ever seen.
best game I played in a long time. They took everything good from Demon's Souls to Sekiro and made what can be considered the culmination of a decade of their work. Certainly not for everyone, but a masterpiece nonetheless.
as a fan of from soft games i had really high expectations on this one....after 60 hours i can say it didnt dissapoint at all the open world aspect may rub some the wrong way but after 5 hours into it i ws hooked...trully a masterpiece 100% would recomend
This game is a masterpiece and deservers the score. It's probably the best game I've ever played and I have already over 100 hours. The gameflow, gameplay, combat is perfection. They took the best from all souls games and created a magnum opus in terms of combat. The enemys/bosses and areas are so amazing and detailed that I am still stunned when I look at it. Cinematics are awesome and it has so much good content, that it blew my mind. The quests and story is also wonderful and I was never more into a game as Elden Ring overall. Definetely a 10/10. Now lets talk about the current "controvery": Some Game devs (Especially the sore loosers at ubisoft) badmouthed this game with various untrue reasons like: missing UI, bad graphics, overhyped by game critics and so on (,while being unable to make good games theirself). Saddest part is, that some ubi-fanboys are reviewbombing this game and giving their favourite "open world game" perfect score. They usually copy ubisofts and over devs words and just add the "bad performance" part for PC, which mostly has been fixed for people above min. reqiurements. If you don't like it or even hate the game, I guess it's okay if you give like a 5. But it shouldn't be objectively possible to give below 5 because it's in every aspect amazing. Now to all the Fanboys/Clowns: If you really hate it, it's okay. Taste is objective. If you think the game is bad because of gameplay or graphics then you didn't know what game you bought in the first place and you are a fool. If the game doesn't run smoothly, next time read the System requirements, which they posted like 1 week even before release. If you cry about UI, lore or just copy the stupid/false words from the "devs", just go to your corner and play your easy/boring/bad microtransaction games with 800 questmarker/waypoints on the map where you just follow a path like a bot without thinking/playing yourself. If that's the case, you are the reason why gaming gets bad and gives money to those big "triple A" companys, who exploit clowns like you. If you want to fight me in an argument about this, just add me on steam or write me a comment there. Can't wait how many clowns are going to write "interesting stuff" and white knight their favourite game in comparison to elden ring. ****/id/Gaming_Potato
absolutely amazing goty 2022 BABYYYYYY best game for awhile what a journey you just gotta get good on my second play through now
People that reviewbomb are usually really young or rather "simple minded". With that out of the way, Its a damn good game. If you dont like Souls-Games, that's ok. I dont like strategy games, but i tried Total war Warhammer and i didnt like it. I was bored. Does it make it a bad game? No. Do i need to reviewbomb it? No. Would i be a **** if i reviewbombed it. Yes. You think your reviewbombing makes your voices recognized? It doesnt. It just turns all of our voices into one big joke, That noone can take serious. grow a brain.
This Game is not for everyone. Its for those who want an adventure to explore a beautiful world that shroudded with mystery. Its for those who like to find and reveal secrets without any help or guide. Its not about the difficulty its about the challenge.
This game is full of adventure and there’s almost never a boring moment. Exploration and combat is fun but it’s a difficult game to pick up. I had only played dark souls once or twice before and it took hours just to understand the game, which made me almost stop playing. Once you figure it out it’s definitely worth the struggle and frustration in the beginning and has more than enough content in the starting area alone.
After 80 hours I enjoyed the challenge of this game but aside from the graphics this game has nothing new to offer. The story line is weak the characters have zero development and the world becomes boring after awhile. I thought this was going to a MMORPG type of game but found the game to be extremely lonely, and not only is there zero NPCs but pretty much all the enemies are the same everywhere you go. Armor Sets are ugly some people will say they're cool but running around in ghoul armor isn't really for me. IDK if you like to cuss out your TV after dying for 6 hours straight and then find a brief moment of victory is your thing then this game is for you. I'm going back to Cyberpunk 2077 and will hope that AC Dawn Of Ragnarok will be better than it's previous DLC content. I enjoy a good story with characters that bring life to it - Elden Ring is not for me I guess but I feel the reviews on this game is too high- guess it's what happens when you release a game with zero bugs
now that i played this masterpiece i founde a new meaning for gaming . game without any microtransaction this game gives playeres a brand new experiance elden ring makes me happy whenever i play it .
I hate paid reviews, that's why 0. Boring repetitive game which has nothing new to offer. No story, empty world, graphics are 10 years old. Who cares? Most overhyped piece of **** ever! And i've been in gaming for 3 decades. So sad. This is third time I review this because admins keep deleting it!!
This game is Amazing fr it was hella fun playing. Im almost finished now and it definitely is one of the best games ive ever played. Bought it for Pc first and it didnt run that well so I just bought it for PS5 wasted a bit of money on the pc version 10/10 tho
I have never played a souls game in my life but when I bought this game I have fell in love with it. From the graphics to the enemies everything is amazing!! The boss fights are phenomenal and crazy hard but that’s the fun of it. It’s the satisfaction of finally beating the boss you’ve been stuck on for a long time. 10/10 Definitely one of my top 5 favorite games!
Great game, joy of playing rpg I haven't experienced for some time. no grphic issue on my machine. if you like fantasy rpg, definetly try this one. thumb up!
Laughing at all the 1 / 2 ratings. These people obviously love Assassins Creed and Far Cry with the same boring gameplay that's been around for 10 years. FromSofware deliver an outstanding experience yet again. Best FromSoft game so to date
game very good. don't believe lying reviews. souls veteran or not you should try it out.
A masterpiece this is the best game I've ever played already 120 hours in and the game just got out. I love it ! The world feel amazing i can't get bored it seems like i barely touched the surface of the game after all those hours
This game is the most overhyped trash I ever played in my entire life! The frame rate is never stable on PS5, it doesn't have haptic feedback or adaptive triggers, and the graphics doesn't look anything special, games from two years ago like Ghost of Tsushima and even God of War from 2018 looks so much better,. The multiplayer system is the worst I ever encountered in a game, if the host or the guest dies , they both get disconnected, and you can't play with a friend for 2 minutes straight without getting invaded by someone who is extremely over leveled above you both, which in turn will kill you easily and get you disconnected again, totally not fun! The bosses in this game are poorly designed as well, there is always a spirit character that you can summon before the fight to use him as a distraction for the boss, while you are attacking him from the back over and over til it dies, not to mention you can also summon your own spirits to do more distraction for you, there is no "gitting gud" in this bull**** game, it's terribly designed and doesn't deserve 10/10 at all! Not even close! I would give it a 6/10 at best, but because I hated it so much I'll give it a 0/10, it's the worst most overhyped game I ever played, I regret buying it and if this is what is considered to be the new high standards in gaming, then the gaming industry is truly F*****! The combat in this game is also very cluncky, you can't cancel your animations once you pressed a button, and the dodge and run actions are mapped to the same button as well, it's just very cluncky controls and totally unnecessary! Save your money and do not buy this overrated garbage. The only positives I had in this game are the character creation system, and the world map is designed well, that's it! Everything else is terrible.
It does not deserve the overrated point of 96 cmon man.Please think a little before you make a review for a game.
I'm always the type to laugh off and disregard scores of either 10 or 0 because very few games either are revolutionary instant classics or irredeemable garbage, but after 116 hours of play time (yes, I not only actually played a game before reviewing it, but completed it before I left a review like a sensible human being,) Elden Ring gets a 10. I became familiar with the souls formula back in 1996 while playing King's Field II, and over the years, FromSoft games have become more refined with each subsequent entry. Each game that they've released has provided a great balance of something that feels familiar, but with a little more to consider. There's been a slow, natural evolution in their design principles that have very rarely disappointed. So it's with 26 years of experience with FromSoft's entries that I feel comfortable saying that this comes as close as we've ever seen to these design principles being perfected. The leap in approach between each souls game has never been this substantial. Whereas before you had to dedicate yourself to mastering a very specific path through the world, Elden Ring provides an experience where you grow to learn the world on your terms and in the order that you choose. The guiderails are still in place, but you're encouraged to step over them, and the feeling of "what's around the next corner?" is actually somehow exponentially increased with this new open-world design. And speaking of open-world games, I typically don't enjoy them because they devolve into henpicky busywork where you're only playing a game to meet a quota, and exploring is typically unrewarding in both an emotional sense, and in a material sense in the way of lacking rewards. In Elden Ring, your time is never wasted if you check around the next bend. The world is large, but it doesn't exist just to create the illusion of scale; there's something to look at or find in every corner that further contributes to the experience. A grand majority of the negative reviews that I've seen have been from people who so clearly hate souls games because they're challenging and have been parroting the same talking points for years. "The games are designed so poorly" actually means "I can't fulfill my power fantasy by walking into a room and effortlessly killing 50 enemies" "I have enough stress in my life and I don't need to play a hard game because games are supposed to be fun" actually means "I have too much pride to learn a game on its terms because I should be in full control of the experience." And finally, "these games are so bad" and anything similar to that notion actually means "I've never played any of those games, but people have said that they're hard and that doesn't interest me, and I'm tired of hearing about them because their popularity offends me." If you're having a bad day, just read a few of the negative user reviews. You're going to notice a lot of whining children who've clearly never beaten, let alone played a souls game recycling the same handful of hilarious points. I had to take my dog to the vet for surgery today and I was feeling a bit down, but scrolling through these user reviews and seeing "WHAT KIND OF SICK INDIVIDUAL ENJOYS GAMES WITH IMPOSSIBLE DIFFICULTY?" with a 0 scored attached really brightened my day. I've had the time of my life playing Elden Ring, and Miyazaki and the rest of the FromSoft team are laughing all the way to the bank while you drench yourself in your own tears throwing a tantrum. Git gud.
eldering is an amazing game that isn't afraid to hide stuff from players like quest lines
pretty good game , love the the bosses , the weapons , the build and the beautiful graphics of this game
This game would've been truly amazing had they added true co-op and abandoned the Darks Souls co-op system. A lot of people have been wanting a decent fantasy coop experience for years, and Elden Ring made it seem like it was going to be the first to do one right, but the co-op system is horrendous. They make you jump through pointless hoops than actually making the game harder. You'll be blocked by some magic fog wall, have to kick your friend out, walk five feet into the cave and summon them back in. I was highly annoyed by that, but what really got me, was the fact that they block co-op altogether in a region after defeating the region boss. Co-op was a selling point for me when I bought this game, but the devs didn't bother to mention all of these restrictions. Most of the elitists will say, "but co-op makes the game easier, and that's bad." Well, all ya gotta do is make the enemies tougher. There, fixed. The way they implemented the co-op seem like the devs have some personal vendetta against people who want to play with their friends. It's an open-world game, and ya'll should adapt to that. The game has the potential to be the best fantasy game since Witcher 3 came out. If they fix this ridiculous co-op system, I will give this game the highest rating possible.
Great game from an amazing team. Yes it's hard, but it's also a fair starting point for new players. Just go into it knowing that you will definitely die a lot. Highly recommended.
Simply amazing. breathtaking world, rich story, deep and rewarding gameplay, perfect level of challenge, and “figuring it out on my own” moments. a must play for any gamer. even non souls fans need to try this game.
Great game, but lots of technical issues (frame-drops, bugs, etc.) and a pretty awful UI/UX design hinders it. The open world works, but I still prefer the more tighter experiences from previous FS games, such as BB. If you are fan of FF's games (especially the Dark Souls games), you will like this.
In short, it is the best game in history, hidetaka miyazaki has achieved what no other person has achieved, he is a genius and this game is his masterpiece, highly recommended
Of the soulsborne games, this is the only one I’ve ever actually played and thoroughly enjoyed. I hated anything related to souls ‘blank’ or ‘blank’ souls. Never could understand the mechanics. Now enter Elden Ring, and this game has blown me away. I love the simplistic ui. Nothing to tell me where to go or what to do. I love the change. I love figuring things out for myself and this is simply perfect. The games combat mechanics are not for the faint of heart and take some getting used to. It’s far from fast paced. Everything done in this game from designing your character to combat has to be thoroughly thought over and planned. I love this game.
I just can give this a 10. If I could I would give it a 20. Its the best game I have ever played and I am not a Dark Souls fan boy. I liked Demon Souls but it was just a 7 for me. This new formula is great. Every learning step taken in this mysterious world feels like a rewarding success. Played online with 2 friends and this even doubles the fun to have.
This is my first time rating a game in my life elden ring deserves the praise and high ratings good job fromsoftware and Miyazaki
This game saved my marriage, I don’t even miss the love and intimacy I was lacking. I’m too buisy dying to tiny stone gargoyles to even care that my wife has a boyfriend.
From software games will always hold a special place for me. I’m not even past the first area just exploring endlessly for hours uncovering quests and new enemies and loot. The open world brings me back to the og dark souls interconnected level design and is a vast improvement. 10/10 all day PRAISE THE SUN.
I don't really understand all the 10/10 reviews if I'm honest. In my eyes the game is somewhere in the lower average. The open world is big, but it doesn't invite you to explore and seems uninspiring and dull. Graphically, the game is quite okay but compared to other open world games again only average and not contemporary. The gameplay can be described as follows: You fight overpowered super agile enemies with ground gymnastics and stupid jumping around and get killed dozens of times. How anyone can like this gameplay is beyond me. The controls are garbage, a tutorial is completely missing, the interface is the total opposite of intuitive and you have to Google all the important information. I think the game is completely overrated.
Oh yes! If you've been a long time fan of FromSoftware, then this game has everything a fan could want. Insane difficulty, a gorgeous setting, epic bosses, and tons of quests that'll keep you playing 'til the end of time. This is easily FromSoftware's best since Bloodborne. (Perhaps even a little better than that.)
Would love to play the game, but Asian region PSN stores do not allow English language version of the game. This is despite advertising English version prior to release. Use this as a warning to anyone else playing from SEA, HK, JP, KR.. your game will not have any option for English menus ot interface.
Well, on to the 6th review of Elden Ring (since Metacritic deletes any reviews for cold hard cash) This game is unacceptabley rough. Anyone who plays it will agree the platforming is in an unacceptable state. The environments interefere with gameplay in unintended ways CONSTANTLY. Dropped frames will **** with your gameplay A LOT. Also, From did NOT balance this game, seemingly at all. No matter what health, or defense, armor, etc. 1 shots are guaranteed, and at other times bosses can be 2 shot by you..... Its literally one of the least polished games ive played in decades maybe. This game has the worst input lag, and dropped inputs, i've seen...well since...sekiro. Sekiro dropped inputs constantly, this game doesnt do it as much, but the input lag is 1000000 times worse. Nearly unplayable. Bloodhounds step and summons exist to mask this.Anyone will agree after playing,this game needed more time in the oven. If you arent willing to admit that, you are lying, or From told you couldnt say anything negative, or youd lose access. Play on the horse and platform around for 5 minutes and that ALONE will tell you all you need to know. Input buffer has seemingly gotten worse (somehow) with subsequent updates. Dropping the score down to unplayable. I cant express how unfathomabley uncomfortable the input buffer is. Its unconscionable
Literally a copy and paste of older souls games, only difference is you can ride a mount. Totally overhyped & not worth your money
Amazing job by from software, in a time where games are released too soon they delivered once again!
Very fun. All the areas are interesting and secrets are all over the place. Controls are good and boss battles are rewarding and very good. The open world is colourful and has amazing enemy's. Trust my, this game's worth it. It also feels like they took the problems from all previous souls games and fixed them and took the most positive and tuned it to 11!
its a hard game it have no tutorial its the studios style if you are noob thats not a game mistake....
This is probably the game of the decade for me. If you are looking for a triple A title to hold your hand, look elsewhere. It’s not for everyone. From soft has perfected the sense of adventure and curiosity with such a dense world. It is a challenging game that fills you with adrenaline when you overcome it. There’s a lot of talk about accessibility but out of all the from soft games, this one is the most flexible and easier to follow. If you are having a hard time, explore, level up, get better gear or upgrade, play with friends or strangers. There are tons of options and customizability. Magic feels great, tanking feels great, weaving in and out feels great. And you can respec 1/3rd in the game, if you change your mind on a build. For old fans of the genre, this is like a celebration of everything that was loved about the previous games. 10/10 for me. Easy.
This game is the Magnum Opus of From Software. An accumulation of everything they have done and learned to date and presented in an enormous package. The scale of the world feels incredible and the area/world design is second to none. The combat is similar to Dark Souls 3 with slight changes such as a jump button and guard counters and more. There are always things to nitpick but there will not be a game this year or likely next that captures my attention quite like this. Be prepared to be left in awe by every new location you discover. And there will likely be some that you miss. Same world design philosophy as Dark Souls 1 in a much larger scale.
It's just an overrated game (Dark souls with horse). Lots of asset and animation reused from Souls games.
Challenging but rewarding. A beautiful world to explore, to get lost in. Well worth the full price. I am ready to hop back in as soon as I can.
The world is large, full of surprises, spells are cool, storyline is epic. If it weren't a FromSoftware game, I might give it a 8 or even 9. BUT. Elden ring's combat system is a full disaster. After the success of Bloodborne and Sekiro, I can't believe FromSoftware is actually selling this defected, boring and somewhat unendurable combat system. Skills are way more powerful than basic attacks and eventually melee weapons are nothing different from staffs, they are just skill casters. Weapon movesets don't matter at all because no one will use R1/R2 when L2 has larger range, higher damage and even faster speed. Without those broken skills/spells/ashes, our tarnished is basically nothing different from the ashen one in Souls 3, while the bosses has Bloodborne-level mobility. But with these skills, you can just beat any boss on the first try without even knowing what the boss does. I highly doubt that FromSoftware didn't really test the game thoroughly. If FromSoftware really wanted the players to make use of skills in their fights, I am totally fine with that and I think it's a good change. There are a lot of ways to do this, they can let players equip many skills like spells, or merge skills into weapon's movesets, or even just allow players to use left hand weapon skills. Any change on the combat system accommodating the use of skills is good. But FromSoftware didn't change the skill system at all, not even a single bit, instead they just brutally dump in a bunch of overpowered skills and force players to use those skills or else suffer. Not to mention how imba some skills are and how many bugs there are causing some weapons to be either OP or not playable at all. They showed that they can make a good combat system in Bloodborne and Sekiro, but choose not to in Elden ring. This is what really disappoints me.
Bought it and I can't play it because it's region locked in Asia. The game is in chinese without saying so in the title like most others do. Basically stole my money.
I think the question you should ask before purchasing Elden Ring (or reviewing it) is asking why you play video games? People clearly enjoy this game but to rate it as one of the best games of all time only makes you qualify that in some way. Almost every positive review I see discuss From Software and it's prior games as a way to explain why they love it. That's all well and good- but rating it as a 10/10 implies that a game succeeds by essentially ever measure. I simply can't comprehend that for this game. The combat is tough but rewarding and there are certainly amazingly designed monsters and battles. That's the draw it seems. I played for hours and that's just not enough for me. I simply wasn't having fun because it lacks the things I love in an RPG. Character development is non-existent and your initial character choice makes little difference in the long run. The overall story is extremely vague and expects you to pick up a lot via context clues but unless you are familiar with the series and it's methodology it will go over most player's heads (and is still not particularly compelling). Side quests and NPCs are utterly boring. The open world is beautiful at first glance but ultimately feels lifeless and I really didn't have that much fun exploring it. People saying that this is one of the best parts of the game feels nuts to me and makes me question what other open world RPGs they've played (or not full open world RPGs too). AI is actually idiotic most of the time and sneaking is absurdly easy, which is an odd contrast to the difficulty of combat. Menu navigation is absurdly bad. There is no journal. Etc. The whole game lacks any character outside of sheer desolation. If you are into that vibe and the satisfaction of getting through something really hard - great. But that's not the only metric **** and anyone who criticizes these aspects of the game is immediately scoffed at for not understanding Fromsoft games. I suppose you could rate this as a 10/10 if you what you care about is a game reaching the pinnacle of Fromsoft play design. Otherwise, how can a game be a perfect game when it alienates substantial portions of the people who bought the hype of an open-world RPG worked on by RR Martin and got slapped in the face by this game. I played this game for hours and hours hoping that it would grow on me and that maybe if I could just "git gud" it would become more fun. But after all that time- I simply can't justify putting any more into it. When I look back at playing this game I can honestly say it just simply wasn't compelling or fun for me. I'm glad all the FromSoft fans are pleased. That's truly awesome. But I feel like anyone considering a purchase needs to understand what it offers- and the many things it doesn't.
The culmination of everything FromSoftware has learned about making good games since Demon's Souls. The open world feels alive and full of places to explore and treasures to find, as well as terrifying monsters to overcome and friends to make.
Elden Ring is the end of a path that from Software Started in 2009. After several years and 6 games of exsperimentations they took the best from each of their previous works and they mixed those characteristics with a beautiful exploration based open world(mainly inspired by Breath of the Wild). The amount of content and its density is great. Every corner of the world (and under-world) map hides a new challenge and a new mystery to resolve. The art direction and lore is brilliant and we have to thank not only H. Miyazaki but also the American writer George R.R. Martin. I also recommend this game to fans of Shadow of the Colossus since in some zones you are going to experience similar feelings. As you can imagine from my previous statements the gameplay is the culmination of souls-like and the definition of a well-made, deep and articulated combat system that barely any videogame has. The game has some clear problems like the recycle of assets and some technical issue but if you overcome this minor issues and let the world of The Lands Between steal your attention you will be rewarded.
Elden Ring is the ultimate gaming experience I have seen for an ARPG. Everybody talked about the greatness of the open world, but the game design completely separates this one from the other open world titles, where it tells the story about the world in a very subtle way. You actually play to see whatever the game tells you, and you will have very different experiences compared other players not because of choosing different dialogue options, but actually exploring the different paths in the game with your varying character. That is why I recommend people who haven't bought this game yet not to check anything about the content of the game from youtube other social media platforms before playing it, for at least 20-30 hours. After that you can somehow sense the patterns in the game, and you can benefit from some information online to make your life easier without spoiling the game for yourself. This is a Dark Souls game, gameplay and objectives wise, as you will be clearing dungeons, killing some very hard bosses and die a lot until you finish the game, with a comparably under-skilled character having the only advantage with i-roll frames. But the caveat here which made me play this game and not finishing the DS games, is you won't be tracing through whole dungeons because your hand slipped in a life saving roll. Most bosses have respawn points nearby and although some may take time, the game progression is not related to most bosses, you can go somewhere else and try it later with better weapons, higher level etc. This removes the wasting time aspect of the game, with adding the feeling of freedom (I cannot emphasize enough) actually makes the perfect DS game. I cannot understand the mindset of review bombers because of graphics. There are a lot of games which does not even have 3D graphics, like Hollow Knight (which I think is strangely similar to this game with the feeling of exploration and challenging bosses), and making it to masterpiece category. I understand the reasoning behind it (outdated textures cannot kill me) but I cannot remember the last time when a game made me say "wow" as Elden Ring (I have been playing games for more than 20 years, from every genre). It really made me feel mesmerized, stunned or disgusted (you will know the place when you see it) the moment I stepped into regions, and the bosses of the game are so well designed, I died multiple times while checking some of the details of the bosses' looks. And it can be played on a lot of platforms, mostly well. Frame drops here and there, some freezes occasionally are not much of an issue compared to fun I am having from this game. A 10/10 game does not be a perfect software. It should be a video game where it makes me want to play because of the challenge, because of the situations that it put me in. It should make me both think and feel, and take me to a roller coaster of emotions. This game perfectly does that. I want everybody to have a taste from this game, one way or another, even if you won't play, just check the artwork, it may inspire you on your life somehow. Although I really, really like Elden Ring, there are some people that I cannot recommend to. If you like cars and guns but not dragons, look for something else matches your taste in theme. If you want to see a lot of dialogue, map indicators or cinematic story telling, you may have a bad taste playing this game as it does not tell you much about what is happening verbally, or UI wise. If you are a person who really enjoys having a very fast and acrobatic character with cancellable actions in platformers or other action games, your Elden Ring character will feel clunky and you may not enjoy the action part that much. If you are a person who are on the very casual side of gaming, coming from mobile match-3 titles to AAA games this one may not be for you, at least at first. Other than that, just try this game one way or another, play at your friend's house, rent a PS or just get on Steam then refund it if you don't like it. Just play at least once.
This game has been so much fun! I prefer to play with my partner and exploring the open world and fighting all the neat looking bosses has been a blast! I really enjoy doing all of the NPC quests and getting to know them and their back stories. My only gripe is that if you kill maybe a certain boss, or a certain amount of bosses in the open world, it will lock you out of playing co-op with the specific person you've been playing with.. It kind of does ruin the experience a bit.. If they were to change that, I'd give it a 10/10!
This is the my ultimate game, best game and only game for some time. If you've never played a souls game you might not understand and that's OK because this is way more approachable than previous titles. Its amazing, its deep, its long and it can be difficult but unlike past FromSoft titles you can go around harder parts, level up and go back... that is the easy mode along with blocking counters that can easily get you through early game and it almost makes early game too easy once you unlearn what you had to do in past titles. The counters really don't help later on (I am about 60 hrs in and going slowly and enjoying every minute) The only bad part of this whole release is that I may never go back to DS1,DS2or DS3 and that is a bit sad but this game is honestly all 3 and then some .
Easily the best game released in the past few years. The open world feels unique, filled with content. Exploration has never been so exciting and rewarding in a videogame before. Unlike previous soulsborne games, Elden Ring encourages the player to try out different playstyles (builds, weapons, equipments, consumables etc). Although at first it seems like the game isn’t beginner friendly, if the player is willing to learn, it quickly becomes obvious that the game is much more forgiving than previous From Software games. Usually there are a lot (sometimes it may even be overwhelming) of paths/choices to take. This means whenever someone is stuck, they can just find something else to do and come back later. The storytelling is not explicit but the lore is huge and really interesting. This makes figuring out the story (through dialogues, item descriptions, environmental storytelling) a unique and great experience. The bosses and enemies are designed very well. Being a from software game, it is obviously not an essy one, but definitely easier than their previous games. All in all it is an amazing game, a really unique and addictive experience. It’s not for everyone (just look at the mindless, salty reviewbombers), but it is worth a try.
This is my first souls game ever, and I'm loving it! I haven't beat the game yet but I've put about 30 hours in and I'm very far into the game. The reason I've given it a 7/10 is because of the performance issues. Framerate is extremely unstable on the PS5 version and the pop-in is a nightmare. While the game is still playable, it feels extremely unpolished on a technical level and makes me wonder how they thought it was okay to release in this condition. I know many others are having the same issues and if you're wanting more information on what I mean, watch the Digital Foundry video that analyzes the game's performance on consoles. If the game did not have so many technical issues, I'd probably give it a 9/10, but I have to score it based on how it performs now, not how it may perform after 2-3 more patches.
Best game ever made. No seriously. I’m actually afraid someone won’t be able to top this game
Single greatest game of all time. If you're a fan of LOTR, DnD, or anything fantasy stop reading this and go play this right now. I couldnt get into dark souls as I kept getting stuck. With this game it is very challenging at moments but being free to go off and get the item that can boost your stats or grind xp has helped me tremendously in progressing.
Easily the greatest game ever made, ignore the review bombers they don't know what they are talking about.
Just a phenomenal game! The combat is totally addictive. After playing Sekiro and Demon's Souls, this game is even better and MUCH bigger than any of these other SoulsBorne games. I've been playing this game for a week now. Even when I'm not playing this game, I'm constantly thinking about it.
The last time I felt this way about a game was when the Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim came out- I was nine years old. Every day when I leave work, I have a smile on my face. I enjoy the drive home just a little more, because when I get home, I feel like a kid again. Past every cave opening, across every ridge, a small piece of adventure is waiting. Every other game feels like a child's game compared to Elden Ring. Other games feature simplistic combat that is mastered in minutes, they spell out their story so you don't have to pay attention, they give you a big red arrow telling you what to do next. Elden Ring doesn't do that, it roovides you a vast open world, dense with personality, and tells you "go kill some ****
Basically a mix of the best elements of Dark Souls and Breath of the Wild. Best game I've ever played.
One of the Greatest video games I have played since I first played Pong on Atari. Amazing where technology has come in the last couple decades. I really hope this paves the way for companies to continue to push the limits and take the time needed to create amazing titles. As a side note.. they should require people to play for a certain time frame before being able to review. All games **** in the first hour you play them... generally you need to give at least 5 hours of your time to give an accurate assessment IMO
I had so much fun playing Platinum If you like from software games will be satisfied As a disadvantage the frame is not stable Incomprehensible storytelling It was good to make it in the open world, but it was more suitable for the open world I wish it was user-friendly no quest list It is difficult to know the change of the quest without attack Even if it is a bit inconvenient to find npc When you complete the quest, you have to go to another place and search for it again. It is difficult to fight with a sword because of frequent escapes among the enemy bosses From software stable gameplay Provide and more easily understand the story or user-friendly Hope there are elements and look forward to the next game
FromSoftware have fine-tuned their Souls formula to produce one of the most amazing games that we will witness within this lifetime. The classic difficulty is still there, but with SO many more options on how to adapt/overcome your situations. The open world is huge, with so much to explore at every corner. For those that say combat feels "clunky" - I assume they have no idea what equipment load does in game. If you are fast rolling the combat feels as fast as Bloodborne. This game will be talked about for decades to come. I am playing on PS5 with virtually no frame rate issues and have played at least 8 hours per day since release so I have no clue where all these negative reviews are coming from. GIT GUD LMAO
Elden Ring is a game of wonders. Each new area gives a sense of awe, as if you are truly experiencing the adventure yourself. After getting past the difficult learning curve and banging your head against the wall, the mechanics of the game being to feel more comfortable, and you can really enjoy the satisfaction of felling the epic monsters and exploring the beautiful and terrifying Lands Between.
as much as I'm sick of open world games Elden ring did it well its a interesting world with cool looking enemies but sadly that's all it has. the bosses are super easy i was under leveled for all of them and it never took me more then 5 tries to beat them. There are to many sites of grace. i never lost any runes because i was always a 20 second walk away from where I died. overall its a fun game but with the hype and the underwhelming fights it falls short.
9.8/10 Is my actual rating, as there are some slight things that could be improved, & no game is perfect. First of all, the majority of "0" ratings are absurd, written by salty Horizon Forbidden West fans that their pandering "let's just fill the game with anything but white men & make any white men in the game weak or the bad guys" pathetic excuse for a game isn't getting the shine now that Elden Ring is out. I've also seen too many people giving this game a 0 & then saying "I've played about 5 hours" ... Stop it. I won't even talk about people getting their ass kicked & giving the game a 0. This game is a masterpiece, it will win GOTY guaranteed, & it'll be referred to as one of, if not the best game of all time. I've currently played 100+ hours & in the early stages I had more issues with how slow the pace was, but now that I'm far deeper into the game I'm glad nothing was rushed. Elden Ring takes all the best elements of previous titles, & even feels like it takes some inspiration from other games such as Dragons Dogma, & blends them into the most cohesive, massive open world with the richest lore that I've ever played. Just when you think you've seen it all, there's another massive, detailed lore rich area to explore. Boss fights are fantastic, with Radahn being one of my favourite fights so far. They can be absolutely brutal but it only adds to the scale & importance of who they are in the games story. There's a lot of twists & turns in the game, a lot of areas that bring out emotion & depth, & the game is just a true masterpiece once you settle in & really engage with it. The minor gripes I have are that magic is way too overpowered right now, allowing certain scrubs to just flatline most bosses with very little effort, & there's a shortcut to an end game area allowing people to massively overlevel which i hope they cut off. The games story can be a little bit slow, but the benefit of that is you really have to explore everywhere & it gives you time to take more of the game in. Do not take any review seriously that has a 0 & says "I've played less than 30 hours" ... Or tries to talk about no quest logs, or other babifying features that we do NOT want in this game. There's a million other games with too much UI, & too much hand holding... There's a reason this game is rated so highly, because it's as pure as a game can get while also being an absolute masterclass in world building.
I have played open world RPGs for over many, many years, and have found that there are two paths that major developers are beginning to take. Either you spam the map full of useless, copy-pasted quests that any monkey can joyfully trot around the map and complete in order to progress some half-assed "story", or the developers sink their heart and soul into it. I first thought this when I played some of the Elder Scrolls games, then most recently with Breath of the Wild, and now finally the genre is combined with one of my most beloved franchises, Dark Souls. We see this in it's most grandeur display with Elden Ring. This game has blown me away in every way. All of the greatest, honed combat from a decade of development shows up here in satisfying, beautiful gameplay. All of the crazy world and character design from Miyazaki and his team is still present, and takes lots of elements both from Bloodborne and the Souls games. This is without even mentioning all of the work that George R.R. Martin helped out with, story-wise. You can definitely see elements from A Song of Ice and Fire within many of the quests and stories intertwined in Elden Ring. Overall, the gameplay hooked me, the story held me, and the boss/world design knocked it out of the park. I hope Fromsoftware continues with IPs like this, with custom characters and free-to-roam worlds, because I truly believe they are a pioneer in this way. Great game.
This is a masterpiece, is not a perfect game, but miyazaki makes a great adventure that ever souls player will be enjoy. To the person who don't know about the souls games just take it easy, its hard but not too much.
Short and sweet review. Massive world. Tons of enemies, bosses, weapons, armor, spells. So many places to go, see and do. Itll be years before I find everything
If you can't handle difficulty and/or need hand holding with quest logs and location markers, this game isn't for you. That doesn't make it a bad game, in fact quite the contrary. It is a breath of fresh air in a world full of easy games that treat the players like children. (Looking at you, Horizon) From Software respects their customers, delivering a complete AAA experience, with no microtransactions, pay to win, skin purchases, or anything of the sort. The price you pay for the game unlocks everything there is, and every player gets the same experience. Having completed the game after investing over 100 hours, I can say that it's easily the deepest, richest, most rewarding open world RPG I've ever played. I rarely replay games, but despite investing over 100 hours, I missed a tonne of content, and multiple endings, so I will be replaying this game. The scenery is beautiful, the bosses are the best FS have ever created, the story deep and fascinating (although not spoon fed, you need to look for it). Are there games out there with better graphics? Yes. Does that ditract from the experience? Not at all. Technically the graphics could be better. They could have implemented ray tracing, better shadows, reflections, etc, etc, but that isn't what matters. The art style and visuals are some of the most beautiful I have ever seen in any game.
A must play for everyone that played at least one Souls game. The frame rate isn't consistent in the open world but other than that there aren't any major bugs or glitches.
It's basically just open world dark souls. I will warn you that if you don't like banging your head against a brick wall over and over again you will not like this. It's HARD. I don't like Fifa games, or CoD games, so I don't buy them and I don't play them, they're not for me. Some people really like spicy food, others don't. That's ok. This game might not be for you. I would caution you to really know what you're getting into without spoiling the world. The gratification comes from FINALLY beating a boss after it kicks your teeth in so many times. It's about giving that feeling of gratification. But you've gotta have a bit of a stubborn personality to get there. To me, this is the game I've been waiting on my whole life. It's like getting immersed in my favorite book (I like things like Malazan or WoT to get an idea). It's big, it doesn't tell you where to go, there's a ton of story to uncover, lore to learn, places to see, maps to create, and nothing is hand held. If you like that kind of thing, good luck, have fun, die a lot. If you don't, there's lots of games out there that you would enjoy instead that you should put your money towards. Just don't get mad at us fans because we don't often get to see something like this. It's a rare occurrence for us and we're gonna savor it.
This is the perfect game honestly. It's the game that Horizon Forbidden West wishes it could be! At least the devs are way better human beings than the devs for some other games right now. Thank you Fromsoft.
I never felt the need to write a review on Metacritic before. I was perfectly content watching other opinions roll in and keeping mine to myself. I am a self proclaimed Baby who is Bad at Video Games and I only ever play things on easy mode. I had an interest in other Fromsoft games like Bloodborne and Sekiro but they were way too difficult/intimidating for me. My go to game to hyper fixate on is usually one of the Dragon Age game and I'm so thankful I can play on baby mode and mod it to make it even easier (skip the Fade anyone?). With all this being said, this is the most fun I've had since experiencing DAO for the first time. I wish I could properly explain it but it's really the first open world game that really does feel like an open world. excessive map markers give me Weird Anxiety and whenever a game is pushing me to go one way I always do the opposite because I want to explore. There really is no "opposite" in Elden Ring aside from NOT following the Grace Arrows. Whenever I discover a ruin or dungeon I feel wildly giddy because even though there's some topography calling attention to it on the map it really DOES feel like I discovered it because there was nothing telling me to go there. Or merchants!! Riding around and finding a new merchant is something so fun because they really can be tucked away in little place with no indication that they're there. I'm about 50 hours in and still haven't left the first region because I'm still discovering little nooks and crannies I missed. I've never played a game that's made me literally jump off the couch celebrating after I clear a boss on my first try; or makes me THIS TENSE and still somehow turns it into an enjoyable experience. The way combat works has really forced me to slow down and THINK and not just try to over level my guy to an obscene amount. It's definitely not a game for everyone, and there's a learning curve when compared to the action adventure RPGs I normally play, but it's definitely the game for me and maybe other people like me.
Let me preface this review by saying I am a souls veteran with over 100 hours of play time so far in Elden Ring, and some of what I will talk about may only become apparent later on for those with less time on their hands. This will contain no specific spoilers, but I will be talking about the general flow of the game and specific mechanics. Elden Rings best period is it’s first 30 hours of play, which in my opinion is why public reception is so good right now. The first two story bosses in that time are great, the exploration is fresh, and you’re basically still learning how to play the game during that time. Martins touch on the lore is very obvious and builds an interesting fantasy world. There are also many improvements to the combat overall in this game. Having a dedicated jump button and jump attacks feel good. Ashes of war are a great concept merging weapon arts and infusions into one elegant and fun system that allow for a lot of build diversity. Certain boss mechanics that people didn’t like from old games have been incorporated in new, better ways that make them not **** as much. Once you’ve explored the first two or three major zones however the game feels stale. The only areas that have that same creative and intricate level design that the souls games had are the major legacy dungeons, and certain entire regions of the world feel mostly empty barring some enemies scattered around. Instead, the game wants you to spend a lot of your time in dungeons grinding optional bosses, runes, and upgrade materials. Elden Ring is not linear and there are dozens if not hundreds of small scale dungeons and caves, but because of that these dungeons are much less interesting than the typical dark souls level. Many dungeon paths are quite literally copied and pasted from other dungeons in the game. They are not the same quality as even minor legacy dungeons, and feel like you’re doing filler content to pad out a zone. In typical souls fashion there are not many quest lines, and for Elden Ring that means simply not enough content to flesh out a world this size. The game knows this and tries to give you extra clues to reach its secret areas but it’s not always enough. Important items that would have been creatively hidden throughout a dark souls level now are spread across these similar dungeons all over the map. items that unlock game defining combat systems are entirely missable. The existence of mounted combat disrupts the combat mechanics you’ve grown to expect of from software in a bad way. Some world bosses are designed around you fighting them on horseback, but certain attacks from these same bosses are also difficult to avoid on horseback without the ability to dodge roll. This leads to a clunky feeling fight where half of it is slowly trying to position your horse the right way so your short weapon can actually reach the enemy, and the other half is you struggling with the menus to resummon your horse when it asks if you want to consume a flask. When you aren’t fighting bosses the mounted combat makes most other enemies extremely easy to deal with. Despite this, crossing large expanses of the rather empty world still feels tedious because there just isn't enough to do and most enemies are pushovers from horseback. There are many games where bosses are hit or miss in the souls series, but at least the vast majority of them are unique and creatively designed. In Elden Ring it’s unbelievably obvious how much more effort was put into main story bosses than dungeon bosses. This is another major part beyond the level design that makes the dungeons feel so boring. As a dark souls player who loves fighting good bosses, this game gives me boss fatigue. You encounter one every 30 minutes of exploration, but the majority of them beyond the first zones are once again, quite literally copied and pasted from previous sections. Great, you killed that boss from that zone 1 dungeon? Now this is zone 3, so here is the same boss but this time it’s two of them. Or now it’s the same boss from before, except he has 1 new move, a new name, and 2x the health. This repetition doesn’t leave much excitement for the boss and just makes it feel like a chore, which is this games single biggest flaw. What are you really exploring if you’re seeing the same things over again? I’m not kidding, of the last approximately 10 named enemies that I have killed, only 2 of them were not reused, and I only found them because I’ve been actively trying my best to follow the few story lines I’m being presented with. Forgettable, easy to kill, and basic sometimes cheesy attack patterns. The only reasons they’re remembered are because you have to fight them so many times. This leads to an experience where the games main content is decent, but the open world which should be the entire selling point of the game feels monotonous, and is its worst quality.
One of the best games ever made. It has immediately jumped to my top 3 after 75h of play.
Game's amazing, most negative reviews are just from people who like the new horizon game more. Love the kind of story in these games where you have to find it in items and piece it together yourself, it's like the opposite of an exposition dump. Really love trying to piece together and figure out the lore, which is what i like about all of from's games.
Best game I have played in quite awhile. Open world finally done right. Difficultly is high, but feels good once you progress. The more I play it, the more I enjoy it.
Game of the year. Best souls game to date. Hits all the souls elements with voice acting and quests and difficulty is scaled up with open world bosses. People negative reviewing are maidenless and simply not good at games. People complaining about graphics simply need validation on spending their paychecks on a rig that they thought was worth it vs moving out of their parents house.
Absolutely a genre-defining game. It's sad seeing so much vitriol around the game simply because of its warranted critical success, especially from clear review bombers. I'm not going to discredit any legitimate criticism, but for me this game exemplifies a gaming genre that I find most fulfilling. Full disclosure that I'm only roughly 40 hours into my journey (I say "only" because I haven't even gotten to the second legacy dungeon yet), but it's been a glorious journey thus far full of mystery, intrigue and exploration. As a massive fan of Bloodborne, Sekiro and Dark Souls 3, my expectations for this game were sky high and thus far every expectation has been passed. I think one underrated thing (based on some of the review bombing happening here) is that FromSoft excels at art-direction and experiential gameplay. Does this game have the best graphics or fidelity ever? No, of course not. But when we think about video game as a source of art, those are just two criterium in a vast amount of characteristics that make video games special. Elden Ring exemplifies what makes risk-reward balance in gaming so exciting, and how self-direction and exploration give the players freedom to be punished, rewarded and often times a mix of both, rather than being handheld to growth and points of interest. The game's art direction is incredible, giving life and depth to the open world. Additionally, the legacy dungeon I encountered exemplifies the best in FromSoft level design, showcasing intricacy and careful design without bloat nor oversimplification. There are a lot of mechanics that might confuse or bewilder new players. I encourage everyone who is willing to enjoy this game to its full potential to push themselves to learn enemy move sets, try new strategies and embrace the learning experience. You may not enjoy, but in most cases you'll love the FromSoft game paradigm as much as I did and want to play every game from the developer!
Felt the need to create an account just to review this amazing game. If you enjoy the souls franchise, you are going to at least enjoy this game, if you enjoy the souls franchise as well as any open world titles, you are going to love this game. Unlike some.... other... open world titles, elden ring is full of so much content that the open world is genuinely justified. You cannot go five minutes of exploration without finding something new. Bosses, dungeons, npcs, etc. Not only that, but everything feels incredibly hand crafted.i haven't encountered a single location that simply feels like filler that was added to make the map larger. The world building is unimaginably deep if you actually manage to follow along, and the combat is impeccable; as you would expect from a souls game. It does enough to feel fresh without changing the formula to an egregious degree. Additionally the art style is breathtaking despite the graphics being somewhat mediocre. Really, everything about this game is fantastic. Mosy of all, it's fun. Which is exactly what a video game should be. With that being said, the game is not without flaw. The biggest issue for me is performance(on a pc port). Now, when I say biggest issue, I do not mean that this is a big issue. Merely that it is the only one noticeable enough for me to mention it. I have a fairly decent setup and I will occasionally see a few frame drops as well as two or three hard crashes in the 70 hours I have played. Is it anything major enough for me to detract any points? Not at all, but if you have a lower end pc, I would perhaps wait for a few patches to drop. Another thing. I view this game as a masterpiece, but you may not. If you do not like the souls franchise, do not buy this game. It is still a souls game at the core and it is unlikely that your view on the game play will change. If you are a newcomer, I would still recommend this game, but I also reccomend that you hesitate. This is not an easy game. It is a fair challenge and you will die. A lot. The greatest part about this game is not the challenge itself, but the feeling of overcoming that challenge.q additionally, the story is not exactly linear. Do not expect red dead redemption style cutscenes. Much of the story must be uncovered by yourself through speaking to easy to miss npcs and keeping a watchful eye to the open world. You may even finish the game with almost no idea of what happened before your character came into existence. If you take these two details into account and neither sounds like a deal breaker, I must HIGHLY reccomend this game. Now. Review over. I am going to play elden ring.
It’s literally the best game I’ve ever played. The combat required skill but the learning curve is not too steep. The map feels densely packed but not with uninteresting pointless things. There’s always something to do and somewhere to go. With already 50 hours in this game I’m no where near completing it. Without the side quests and side dungeons I would say this game takes about 60-70 hours to complete on a first play through however the side quests feel like the meat and potatoes of this game and I often find myself being more interested in them than following the main path.
Best game so far fromsoftware making it open world was a good idea there are some problems but it can be fixed
I really feel like anyone giving this game less than a 7 has played it for 20 hours or less. Use a few youtube videos to create a decent beginning character and then slog through the beginning just like the beginning of any RPG. But then it opens up. And when I say opens up, I mean that, just by exploring a little bit, I ended up in what looks like a different universe. There is so much to this game. The story is weak, but I feel that exploration is the key. You should be able to wander just about anywhere at any time and feel like you have a shot. If not, mark it and come back later. You are not guided whatsoever by a linear story, so if you're looking for a story driven game, look elsewhere. And if you're looking for next-gen or even current-gen graphics, you're not going to find it here. By why should that be a detriment? Some game choose to 8-bit their games. FROMSOFTWARE chose to say "Let's tone down the graphics, but make the game HUGE." "You mean like this?" "No, bigger!" "How about this?" "BIGGGGGEERRRRR!!!!" If you're not carefully ransacking a gigantic castle or in the middle of a huge open area with giants all over, then you're in the middle of a field full of life. Little bunnies, big bucks that leave you alone but don't scare too easily. Some goats might take a roll at you or a ram might choose to challenge you. Even the best reviews that the critics gave have a couple serious misgivings about the game, but they still give it a 10. They are correct in doing so. The game is that good.
Everything perfect ! im almost at 130 hours played and oh boys that is epic ! the story is finally narratted better, thanks to R.R. Martin. Talking about graphics ok its a little bit outdated but who cares, actually its the only game where you can fight monster with a serious swordsplay. im really waiting future patches that maybe adds something and obv DLCS !!!!!
This game is incredible. Beautiful scenery, a plethora of enemies and bosses, and an abundant and diverse character creation/attributes. Amazing!
Fell down a hole and came out in another world.............................10/10
From Software's MASTERPIECE. It all started with Demon Souls's level structure, then levels were jointed together and we got Dark Souls. Now we have multiple levels in a full open world map. EPIC. DEFINITELY A MUST PLAY.
This is my first Souls game, so I'm not in that hardcore camp. Elden Ring is basically Skyrim's freedom of wandering with an amazing combat system and no hand holding. If lack of a quest journal turns you off, that's okay. It doesn't for me, it makes me feel that everything I do is more immersed in the world. If bosses wrecking you for 2 hours before you squeeze out a win turns you off, that's alright too. I enjoy overcoming that high hurdle, making me feel a sense of pride and accomplishment I haven't had in a game in many years. This may not be for you, but it is for me. From my perspective, this game is a 10/10. I love overcoming obstacles and being treated like an adult. Then again, I played Myst when it came out and the idea of using a notebook doesn't make me furious.
this game is unstable FPS so we need to VRR but it's not supported in the PS5 so it's un-enjoyable at all
Elden Ring is The Best Open World I ever seen before you can’t feel boring when u open new area or something like that in other games and the art design is so amazing every time u shocked and the bosses and enemies are the best about ever you seen in video games history!!!
I have played the game now for about 30 hours and explored the lands between. I can only say that this game has definitely earned its place in the upper ranks. The map is huge. Especially if you compare it to other Souls games. There is something to explore in every single corner. And some of the coolest items are hidden. Still it is a Souls game and it is hard, especially if you never played one before. I myself havent played a Souls game past the original Dark Souls. Just dipped a bit into Dark Souls 3 on my brothers PC and also played Sekiro. I must say, From Soft really did great job combining all they learned from previous games into this and it is the best version of them all in my opinion. The story is told in the classic Souls way through items and conversations with NPCs. There is a red string you can follow, but its your decision how to follow it. Still, the PC port is not fully optimized and you get a few stutters as well as 60 fps max. That would be a reason for me to only give 8/10 points, but in regards to wht I have read from people giving this game 0 points I think its only fair to pump the score higher.
An incredible entry by Fromsoft. This game has a depth, that in today’s current offering of titles simply dwarfs everything. The world is massive, intricate and really pulls off a dark fantasy atmosphere that I didn’t expect. Nearly every feature from all past “Soulsborne” games is implemented and improved. Combat is satisfying, character building is thorough and uniquely diverse. I’m currently over 20 hours in and am still finding new things at every corner. I have no doubt I will be playing this game for years. It’s important to mention to everyone who does not understand this style of game, you do not beat this type of game, you endure. It’s about learning from mistakes, every failure is a learning opportunity. I look forward to learning more with each session.
Finally a open world video game where exloring and going around is fun. Not the generic follow and complete all the markers that ubisoft and guerilla does. a step in the right direction for video games
PS5 is the Definitive way to play Elden Ring. Played: 50 hours on Steam (PC) 70 hours on PS5 Still playing on both! Excellent game
This is a great, great game. Great visuals, great lore, music, engaging gameplay, I just absolutely love it. There's A LOT of variety for character builds, a TON of replay value. An absolute masterpiece ****. Of course, some will complain it's difficult, but even for the more casual gamer, you can just go elsewhere & level up if you're struggling in some area. And of course, soon enough there will be tons of walkthroughs & tips on the internet. Me I love having to overcome a challenge, it's a lot more rewarding.
Its just Dark soul 3 in open world. It's boring and graphichs is not good. It's far from a masterpiece.
An absolute masterpiece. It made me fall back in love with gaming. I see a number of negative reviews about outdated graphics & whatnot but honestly it is still a large, beautiful open world with lots of places to explore & loot to be discovered. Some bosses can appear impossible & yes you’ll have to grind your level up to compete with them but that’s all part of the fun. From Software want you to go off and explore to level up so you can find places you’d never previously thought of going. Think I spent the first 15 hours of the game just in Limgrave (the starting area) exploring every nook & cranny. I was simply discovering new locations within Limgrave like; Dungeons, Caves, Points of Interest & new Sites of Grace. This game is all about taking risks to reap the rewards. I won’t put any spoilers as I want players to experience it for themselves but take my word for it when I say it is a work of art. From Software have certainly made the best game I’ve played in many years!
Lo único bueno es la dirección de arte, el juego en si es súper mediocre, con una dificultad artificial dónde llenarte el escenario con enemigos es sinónimo de difícil, cosa que no pasaba en el dark souls, sekiro o Bloodborne dónde todo estaba perfectamente posicionado para darte una sorpresa o un reto. Sin hablar de los jefes que son la mayoría unos beyblades con patas dado que tu personaje no está equilibrado a la velocidad de ellos. Los npcs están igual de muertos en animaciones como hace 2 generaciones como también tu personaje dónde se ve que reciclaron elementos en el motor gráfico que ya se ve desfasado. El juego no es divertido ni desafiante, simplemente es mediocre. ----------------- The only good thing is the art direction, the game itself is super mediocre, with an artificial difficulty where filling the stage with enemies is synonymous with difficult, something that did not happen in dark souls, sekiro or Bloodborne where everything was perfectly positioned for give you a surprise or a challenge. Not to mention the bosses that are mostly beyblades with legs since your character is not balanced at the speed of them. The npcs are just as dead in animations as they were 2 generations ago, as is your character, where you can see that they recycled elements in the graphics engine that already looks out of date. The game is not fun or challenging, it's just mediocre.
This is by far the best open world game since Red dead. Fromsoft polished their formula to a point that i cant see it getting better .10/10
10/10 Absolute masterpiece. Visually stunning and fantastic musical score. Like a love child between Darksouls and Skyrim!
This game is not a masterpiece this game is not a 10 out of 10. The one thing that this game is definitively is overhyped. I have spent about 60 hrs playing and I will say I have enjoyed **** majority of that time, but there are a lot of glaring issues that are present in Elden Ring. I understand that some people really did not like the linearity of the souls archetype of games, and when meeting a hard boss it was more frustrating than fun to beat your head against the wall until something gave. To circumvent that issue they implemented open world which means you can go somewhere else and come back at any given point in time which is cool on paper! This would be fine IF the world itself didn't feel empty for the most part. Sure you have some cool locations scattered throughout the world that are really awesome experiences, but at some point you forgo exploring for just finding the nearest grace and teleporting around because you instinctively realize that there isn't much to do between point A and B unless you consider collecting another **** time. The biggest problem that I personally have with the game is that the sense of achievement is largely dulled when it comes to defeating a hard boss. You fight so many bosses at every twist and turn and sure some of them are harder than others, but they are so littered throughout every point in the game that eventually it just becomes a slog to get through. You want to get to this checkpoint, well here fight this boss first, you want to get to a new area, Well F you take this boss instead! There's no build up no tension it just becomes routine. When you get to a main area with a main boss thats where the game to me really takes over and shines. In those moments I really found myself having a real joy, but sadly due to open world aspect of the game the developers focused on making the world cohesive instead of the experience of being in the actual main areas itself. Overall it's a good game It has some moments that really make you enjoy it all but sadly mired with a rather mediocre open world and plague of bosses that make you feel more tired than exhilarated once defeating them.
Where do I begin on this title and the insanely inflated hype around it? Elden Ring is yet another entry to the Souls genre, and this time steps away from the tried and true design of tightly crafted game worlds that Fromsoft usually brings us. Unfortunately, we are left with a bland and lifeless Overworld, connected with obscured dungeons that feel copied straight from Bloodborne's Chalice Dungeons. There was something missed in translation here, as most open worlds draw you in with a plethora of things to experience, not just empty space between the next thing to kill. Speaking of killing, the entire game revolves around removing enemies out of your way. This is the same as every Souls game, but this is supposed to be an open world experience. Imagine just laying a linear game out on top of a big map and calling it "open world" now. With nothing else to do, you will be traveling across large, empty expanses to find another repetitive dungeon, another rehashed enemy, another reskinned boss...with rewards that do not give you incentive to explore. You hit walls where you cannot pass, so you must go try a different route until you are strong enough to do the "intended" route. You will begin to lose steam after the honeymoon phase wears off. The bosses get progressively more ridiculous as you move through the game. Instead of opting for a dance of combat like Bloodborne or Sekiro, you will spend the entire battle rolling around, counting on iframes to help **** you out of a 9-hit combo alive, where each hit of the combo can chunk you for most of your health. Enemies everywhere rely on delay attacks, holding their weapons in the air just until you finish rolling for a cheap kill. Some will defy physics and spin midair to land on you. The whole thing is about being cheesed by enemies or cheesing them by leveling. Even having the strongest physical defense armor in the entire game, plus dumping most of your points into Vigor, you will still be 2 shot by end bosses. Highly disappointing. The "open world" is rife with shambling creatures that walk in circles or wait patiently for you to approach and dispatch them. NPC stand around, lifeless in this uninspired world. You cannot track any quests, so unless you have a really good memory, you are expected to play with a journal by your side for notes. The UI used is ugly and over a decade old. Movement is nearly a direct copy from Dark Souls 3, with weapon Arts. The biggest crime here, though, is the reviews from Critics. Unanimously overflowing 10/10 review from nearly every gaming company out there. For a continuation of pretty niche type of game, the how is unreal. Especially when NOTHING here is revolutionary, inventive, or deserving of the word "masterpiece." At best it is bait to get people to buy Elden Ring, only to be highly disappointed after the refund return window has closed. Lastly, the hype of George RR Martin to sell the game! This is just using a name to sell your product. You can replace entire words with phrases from Dark Souls. Point of Lost Grace = Bonfire. Watch reviews (not 10/10 "critic" reviews, but actual USER reviews), check out some gameplay. Read reddit posts that are not biased towards it being great. Don't just jump on a train taking gaming in the wrong direction.
The greatest video game ever created. Its world designs are especially amazing.
Reached the end in 63 hours.. this is really a Masterpiece and I'll play at least 300+ more hours
Very cool game. Interesting setting, good combat, good storyline, huge open world
This game is everything i wanted it to be, perfect blend of everything From Software have produced over the years. This scale of this game is impressive, so much to explore throughout the world which you can get lost in for hours. The game is difficult but not too difficult to overcome with patience and learning. Well done From Software!
even if the fans of PS and workers of sony studios cry this game deserves the goty for now
I've not been so addicted to a video game in my whole life. Somehow this game only gets more and more engrossing as you play. There is so much incredible content - meaningful rewards, cool bosses, diversity of enemies, crazy environments, interesting quests. Hard to imagine a better game.
I dont rememperr my self to be so sad when i close the ps5. I love it so much.. is like all my experiece from fantasy worlds from DnD, video games and mangas, this game is like my dream come true!! But sadly is not for evryone...
Game where you have to actualy explore the world with only one task to become elden lord noting to add more just amazing world, bosses, items, weapons and armors, no stupid 'west' like open world desing where you follow pointers skip dialogs, bilions of collectables, this is not a game for normies, played for about 100h now and enjoying it like hell
Elden Ring is really good game until the late game which is quite unbalanced which kinda ruined some of my experience.
I waited to review this game until I was deep in the game. I'm currently 82 hours in so I feel confident with my ability to fully grasp this game. Flat out this is my favorite game of all time. Breath of the Wild and Sekiro were tied before and Ocarina was before those. The scope of this game is nuts. There's so many enemies and so much creativity in the open world. the art design is a masterpiece. There's also so much hidden in the game, I've spent tens of hours probably just on hidden locations. The accessibility is there too with the ability to farm through the giant world and also use Ash to help in challenging fights. Again, I'm 80+ hours in and I'm sure I'll be playing for another 40 hours at least.
it is a good game but buggy and quest instructions are not clear which makes you spend so much time on a single mission
Slight performance issues, along with some of the typical FromSoft lazy design choices bring this back from a 10. These criticisms are fairly small in the grand scheme of an excellent experience, which has stunning visuals and an intriguing story that requires you to actually pay attention.
The last time I felt this way about a game was when the Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim came out- I was nine years old. Every day when I leave work, I have a smile on my face. I enjoy the drive home just a little more, because when I get home, I feel like a kid again. Past every cave opening, across every ridge, a small piece of adventure is waiting. Every other game feels like a child's game compared to Elden Ring. Other games feature simplistic combat that is mastered in minutes, they spell out their story so you don't have to pay attention, they give you a big red arrow telling you what to do next. Elden Ring doesn't do that, it roovides you a vast open world, dense with personality, and tells you "go kill some ****
Back to the roots of gaming when you didn't have to get hand held through an entire game. The world is beautiful, the is read between the world, items descriptions, npcs, and progress. A vast variety of weapons never seen before and enough content to keep you playing for 50+ hours easily. This is nothing short of a masterpiece. Not only is is the best game of it's time but it's also the best soul's game to date. THe difficulty can be as hard or as easy as you want it to be depending on your gear/ build.
GOTY 2022 worthy. My first souls game but definetely not the last. This game reminds me of old games that use to be challenging. The design is epic and the amount of things to do is endless. I am addicted.
a worthy successor to blood borne and ds3, not a game for everyone though, shame
Totally overrated but good game. Nice fight system but empty world + trivial npcs. Not special Music.
A masterpiece. Only people who don’t like it are people who can’t get good.
God, this game is such a masterpiece, people that are leaving it a 0 because of the "not a story" obviously didnt play past the first 2 hours of the game, and leaving a 0 because of "outdated graphics" is the lamest of excuses, as if graphics made a game, be fair with your reviews
Elden Ring is not a casual game. It’s brutal & requires that no job gamer life. Do not buy if you only have a 1hr a day to play. It’s grind session & it’s more annoying than fun.
Best game ive played since witcher 3. Sleep deprivation have become the new norm.
One of the best game you will ever play if you enjoy dark souls series. The open world is big and not empty, lots of things to do and the combat is a great improvement from the previous games. Personally, I prefer Sekrio style combat and would be better than great if the game uses more of Sekiro combat system. And the story is as brilliant as usual like previous souls games, what could go wrong from Miyazaki and G.R Martin.
It's Dark Souls 4 but I didn't expect anything different other than the journey. I see loads of criticism about graphics when this was made for last Gen. I also see a lot of criticism for map markers and quest logs which have never been in a FromSoft game. I personally haven't experienced any bugs after 50 hours of gameplay, no pop ins, not even a framfrate drop but I am on PS4. I appreciate this isn't a perfect 10 and I put that down to the PC release being awful.
Easily the best game I've played in years, and almost certainly the best game that From Software has ever made. Elden Ring is a game that respects the player's intelligence and curiosity. Unlike so many recent open-world games, it won't lead you by the hand and tell you where to go at every turn. You have the freedom to travel to every castle or mountain you see in the distance, and it's up to you to figure out how to get there, and get past any obstacles in your way. There's no easy mode, but there are plenty of tools to make the game easier if you're willing to explore and experiment, and of course you can always practice until you git gud. Parts of it may be frustrating to new players, but the reward is some truly amazing vistas and some of the most amazing boss fights in any game, ever. The world is rich and detailed, and there's tons of lore, but the story is mostly kept in the background to keep the focus on combat and exploration. There aren't hours of drawn-out cutscenes with characters endlessly yapping on. There are characters who you'll meet on your journeys, but almost all of the time you're adventuring on your own, charting your own path forward, with little to guide you except the towering landmarks in the horizon. The combat will feel familiar to Souls veterans, but there are some small additions to the combat to make things a bit more dynamic, like a block counter move that's like an alternate way to parry. Spirit ashes let you summon a wide variety of creatures into boss fights, which can range from mild distractions to truly overpowered beasts. The mounted combat is surprisingly good, and you're even given the option to fight many boss fights either mounted or on foot, and I found myself preferring to fight mounted against many bosses. The main fights are all truly epic, and normal enemy encounters manage to be just as dynamic and challenging. There are downsides to the Souls games going open-world. While the main "legacy" dungeons are all amazing, there are smaller optional dungeons tucked away in the form of catacombs, forts, mines and caves. While some of them have interesting level design and bosses, some of them feel phoned-in, a bit like Bloodborne's automatically-generated Chalice Dungeons. There are also repeated overworld mini-boss fights, like the Dragons, Erdwood Tree Avatars, and Night Riders. While they were all engaging boss fights, especially on horseback, fighting 6-7 variations on each with only minor differences does get a bit repetitive, but they're all purely optional. Elden Ring can be an absolutely gorgeous game to look at. The game isn't cutting-edge visually, and in certain places you're reminded that it's still running on some of the same engine FromSoft has used for over a decade, but the beautiful vistas make up for all of it. At it's best the game looks like a concept art painting come to life, and even if every last tooth doesn't have a million polygons, the artistry that goes into the world and character design is as good as anything out there. I recommend playing with HDR if you can (which goes for pretty much all games that support it, but still.) While the game's freedom of exploration is mostly a positive, sometimes it does get a bit too vague for it's own good. The lack of a quest log is usually fine, but can sometimes be a bit frustrating, and you can miss whole questlines if you miss a vague hint or don't stumble on the right shack. It's not a game where you're really intended to experience everything in a single playthrough, but it can still be a bit annoying to miss a whole questline by mistake. As I got further into the game I did find myself looking things up more and more often, which took me out of the game somewhat, although I still prefer it to the game hand-feeding me everything. Even with those flaws, Elden Ring is an incredible experience. At it's best, it really feels like you're a lone explorer a hostile, mysterious world. At it's worst, you're potentially dealing with hours of frustration and yank. But for me, the lows only serve to enhance the highs, and the end result is one of the most engrossing games ever.
One hell of agame /clap fromsoftware One hell of agame /clap fromsoftware One hell of agame /clap fromsoftware
Such a hard game with no ability to change difficulty, it made the game unplayable to me!! It looks so good and I really wanted to play it because of the writer George R. R. Martin.
Probably the greatest piece of media I've consumed in the last few years. Thank you FromSoftware.
An attempt to go full Skyrim via the boring route. Outdated graphics, no real immersion, another round of boring/obscure quests that didn't really give me the feeling of belonging in this world, and an endless cycle of boss fights(at least some of them are good, but it doesn't save the game). Only new mechanic is the **** the year 2022 the new mechanic is the JUMP! Animations are still lacking, hit boxes are still a random joke, it's not AAA, not even close to A. And the so called "lore" is still as vague and shallow as it was before the involvement of Martin.
Remember the date 11.11.11? Skyrim launched with a massive Fus Ro Dah! and hell it became a staple of the open world RPGs of that time. Well 22.02.2022 (ok I know, 3 days later) marks the beginning of a new era! Elden Ring will have the same effect on the genre as Skyrim did all those years ago. No game has managed to immerse me so deeply since Skyrim. Elden Rings Lands Between are carefully handcrafted, brimming with secrets, which it tries its best to hide from you as best as possible. Persistent exploration is the only mend. The visuals are stunning, the performance on PS5 is excellent. One of the best games I have ever played, must stop now, must get back to playing it
Absolutely stunning. This is my first fromsoftware game and I am currently 25 hours in and very much enjoying it, even if at times it is is absolutely insane on difficulty. Personally I think even with the difficulty it is worth a play, as with practice it becomes such a rewarding feeling.
it seems that i fight in a open world but the only rule to survive is level upgrade, too much RPG in this open-world or soul-type game.
The game is very challenging, they added the vibe of dark souls, sekiro, bloodborne vibe, everything is just best quality.
Everything i wanted and more. Ultimate souls game. Only problem is (like in every from software game) droping fps, but that is fixable and it does not ruin the experience. Absolutely love it!!
Incredible game. The open world feels gigantic, and the graphics are breathtaking. The story and side quests are a lot easier to follow than the dark soul's games, although not as much as Sekiro. It might not be for you if you haven't played a soul's game or might not be up to trying over and over on a hard boss, but I think it's the easiest "souls like" I've ever played. If you think something is too hard, you can level up and get better equipment somewhere else.
I've never understood people who put lots of time into finishing a game that offers nothing but difficulty. what is the gain here? Do you get an excellent and engaging story? no. unless you have hundreds of free and useless time to read scrolls. Do you get breathtaking and exciting combat? no. all you should do is die too many times just to figure out when and how each enemy attacks, which might be enjoyable for some minority of people, but for most of the people, it just doesn't worth the time and effort. so the only times you really "enjoy" playing this game, is when you have defeated a boss or when you enjoy the beauty of the world itself. despite all things mentioned above, I admire their risk in creating an open-world game this wast and adding some features like a horse to the series ... To conclude, this is only a good game for just a minority of people and definitely not a "must play" for everyone. This is what happens when all of the reviewers are die-hard fans of the series.
I've definitely been enjoying this game a lot, but I don't think it's really lived up to the hype. The combat is really fun and the world is pretty fun to explore, but the open world doesn't really do much but take you from battle to battle. It's definitely a good game, but not really sure if I'd call it a great one.
It's not a game for everyone, so if you don't like grinding you better pass this up. But if you're a souls fan like me, well, say goodbey to your loved ones for a while.
Cannot say more than This: Extremely addicting, rewarding, breathtaking. In one word It Is MASTERPIECE
the only open world game of 2022 that deserves to be played unfortunately day one it had a lot of bugs on ps5, loss of data, framerate, boss that bugs and no online for some players on ps5 as well as Xbox but unfortunately the best place is on Xbox serie X, the game is improving even if it still has a little bug but less framerate bug but still present...
OK, I got a refund from Sony for buying the Asian version without English screen texts. The game is OK, but the non-Engling version practice is making a lot of people feel bad.
Wow. Where do I start? Have you ever anted to play a masterpiece? It's here. Enjoy.
I feel this game is incredible and an unpolished piece of **** at the same time. Where the game shines, it does so beautifully in its wide range of gameplay styles, exciting boss fights, and well designed main dungeons. The game however is EXTREMELY unpolished. There's an early NPC which sets the entire early game story and direction which you can accidentally miss and have no idea what's going on. At the beginning of the game you're often beating dungeons and collecting items which you have no idea how to use and actually can't make use of yet, making the rewards feel very unfulfilling. There are a bunch of game mechanics that are hidden behind obscure optional texts, or random unmarked NPCs and you don't even get access to the nexus and most of those basic mechanics until like 6 or 7 hours into the game. Over 30 hours into the game, I still don't know how to use some basic mechanics like cooking. Basic things like explaining new game mechanics, quest logs, comparing items to current items in the store, knowing when npcs have new things to say etc. are all missing. Again, these are lacks of basic game polish that deep gamer masochists treat as features, and most people used to modern games will find frustrating. That's not even mentioning the graphics. Which frankly feel like DS1 graphics which can run on a switch, yet this game has random visual bugs and performance issues all over the place on expensive hardware. DO NOT EXPECT A POLISHED GAME. The game also suffers from a complete disconnect in tension. You go from being afraid of most enemies and having to work for everything, to being an untouchable speed demon on a horse a few hours in. Now rather than having to sneak past, or fight enemies in the overworld to access the loot they're guarding, you can just ride around, pick up items with no pickup animation in super overleveled areas and gallop off on your merry way. The horse is OP OP. So much so that there is actually a way to beat a lvl 80 boss, AND get enough exp to get to near lvl 50 as a lvl 1 scrub within an hour of starting the game, all without having to swing your weapon once! Honestly some people might enjoy just riding around aimlessly on an open world copy paste landscape for hours on end on an untouchable horse for variable rewards, but that's just not for me. This game got really fun for me when I stopped treating it like a polished game that I should experience in the way the devs intended, and started treating it like the broken piece of **** it is! I now go online to find the coolest builds, discover how the game mechanics work, figure out the most broken exploits, look up where the most broken items are, and do my upmost to become as much a god yet not too much **** as possible. The game is such that even with the ridiculous exploits, most bosses are still challenging, and you can kind of make the game as hard or as easy as you want by exploiting exp hacks. If you want to grind exp for an hour and become way stronger you can, if you want to spread your points so you can do all the builds yet still be the same combat strength, you can, and if you want to be a deep masochist and wander around for hours finding a few cool things, and grind ****ty mobs and bosses and be frustrated for hours and hours because it hurts so good, you can do that too! This game is beautiful, hideous, amazing, poorly designed, with amazing design choices, with easy ass cheesable bosses, with riveting hard gaming challenges, with absurd exploits, and a lot of frustration and a lot of triumph. So what are you waiting for? This is the best game of the year! It's also the worst game of the year! ... Come check it out!
If you ever played any dark souls game or something similar and didn't like it. You're not going to like this one, same gameplay style. It's not similar to open world games. Metacritic have blocked the user reviews for at least a full week after its release. They are becoming more and more dishonest.
This is one of the greatest games I've ever played. It reminds me a lot of breath of the wild, but with dark souls mechanics. There are flaws worth pointing out such as the inconsistent frame rate and a lack of direction, but that isn't enough to drag this game far from perfection. There are lots of weapon types, bosses/enemies, room for exploration of the world and experimentation of your character. I personally went with a chad strength build, but you can also do magic, faith, dexterity builds etc. Also please keep in mind that this is a fromsoft title, meaning that it can be very difficult, but don't let that discourage you from playing this master piece.
I haven't played this game, but with the amount of people giving scores for this game that they can't justify, I'm just as qualified as anyone. We got people giving this game a 0 because it isn't in Arabic or because they didn't do enough research before buying the game. This is where I insert the Eric Andre meme of him shooting Hannibal Burress where Eric is a gamer that doesn't play RPG open world story games and Hannibal is Elden Ring, and Eric goes "Why does this game ****?" when in reality they were never going to enjoy the game to begin with.
Incredible game, it’s fun and entertaining and there’s so much you can do and the bosses are incredible. Definitely give this game a go!
great game. not woke. seems like this game is being negatively review bombed. be careful with fake accounts. Great game!
Holy **** this blew me away and cause of this I bought the game on pc also and my god this was amazing the visuals, the fact that it lets people learn instead of holding your hand, actually getting people to think instead of forcing stuff down your thought, get this game and don't let there be a easy mode
Every enemy in the game has an unfair advantage against you. I decided to test this theory out and used cheat engine to give myself a huge advantage. Game doesn't get easier. It's almost enough to make me wonder if all the role playing aspects of the game are just there to trick you in to believing you're progressing at all. Sorry, but this isn't fun. This just feels like playing D&D with a Dungeon Master dead set on having you killed, one that doesn't care if you're enjoying yourself or not.
This is my honest opinion. I have played 30 hours in just 3 days and i force myself to sleep , because the game is too good. Its a wonderful game full of atmosphere , challenge and wonder. Its marvel.
I have no idea why most people keep praise up this game as a masterpiece. Sorry for that I don't know how to enjoy this game because it is too hard for me. This game is just a mission impossible to me. Sorry for the bad rating. I am an 80's, I have my works to do. I not always free at home and sit on a sofa for whole day to play my PS5 from the morning to the night. I need to go out for work, to earn money. PS5 for me is just for relaxing, game is just for entertaining. Sorry for quite dissappointed why all the reviewers keep praise up this game? I can't even beat the first boss. I have no time and no endurance to beat the same boss for whole day. Why people so enjoying for death so many times? This is a nightmare for me. I can't get this game accomplished because I'm so tired of beating the boss, which is mission impossible to me. Please don't follow the trend to see your friends or which gaming host recommend this game, then just follow them to buy this game. This game is not cheap, it is selling around US$59.99. You can't beat the boss in this game doesn't mean that you are a noob player. Game is just for enjoying but not for challenging.
i was sceptical but they did it. will list rational pro-contra eventually (still playing atm, might be the first 100% after dark souls 1 I attempted in the whole souls franchise)
I'm 50 hours in right now and it feels like the end is still not in sight. Everyone who loved soulsborne will find the culmination of fromsofts experience in their hand. Beautiful and interesting areas, frightening enemy designs and challenging but fair boss fights. But the huge open world design doesnt come without some flaws: Sometimes it is very slow, you really have to commit to exploring, taking your time and be amazed by many hidden areas/dungeons/bosses and loot. Also i got lost a few times, and the game did not gave me very useful orientation where to go to progress in the main quest. And the last problem for me is that for my taste some enemies/bosses got recycles a bit too often. Performance on PS5 is disappointing, 60 fps should be no problem but is rarely the case. But other than that it is really a masterpiece. The build variety, the really precise gameplay ,the tons of content this game has and simply the fun you have while playing it outweigh the problems the game has. Without performance problems it would be a 10/10
This is the game I expected from FromSoft. It's gorgeous and as engaging as you want it to be. There is so much content to go through and is paced wonderfully. The controlls are *chef's kiss*. I can understand why this game isn't right for some players, but it will keep me occupied for years to come.
I cannot describe how smart, fun, surprising, engaging, challenging, rewarding and addicting Elden Ring is.
Absolutely beautiful And to the fellas that are criticizing the hard combat, the environment etc. Remember, these games aren't for everyone, and if they aren't for you, that doesn't mean that they are bad. This isn't a Ubisoft title to have dozens of map markers and quest markers, easy to master combat etc, this is a soulsborn, remember that.
If you liked any of the Fromsoft games starting with Demon's Souls you'll love it. If you didn't, then perhaps Elden Ring is not for you. While it is more forgiving than some of FS's previous titles, it's still a "souls" game... Be ready to spend hours trying to figure out enemy's movement patterns and die a lot. If this does not sound appealing then again, this game is not for you. What differs it from previous games is the world, which is not only open but manages to avoid the ubisoft formula. There are very few icons on the world map marking locations, and they only pop up once a location is discovered. There is no filler in the shape of find-all-flags or collect-all-logs and so on. There are no objective markers, a journal, quest log, character dossiers, collectibles etc. You are expected to pay attention to what NPC's are asking you to do, often indirectly and often in passing. I found this refreshing, as most games these days seem to be going out of their way to force you to experience everything they have to ofter, and they will remind you of the things you haven't, every time you open a map. When you discover a new location in ER, it's your discovery, rather than an inevitable stop on a theme park ride prepared by the devs. I liked it, would recomend it to a friend.
Whomever is giving this a low score (much less a zero) either has a nefarious agenda, or is just a Troll. This is bar none the greatest game I have ever played, and I am just a few hours in, i know it's going to get even better... no joke, this is amazing. Ya, it's hard, ya you need to do a little research, but that's part of the fun.
The game itself is amazing after spending some time with it. It's completely unlike all the other "production open world games" from Ubisoft, Sony, Microsoft, and others, with it's waypoints, quest log (chores), and being guided through what the developers want you to experience. In Elden Ring, you control the narrative. It's your adventure. It's fantastic! I just wish the framerate was more stable on PS5.
I wish I hadn't seen any reviews prior to playing the game, as I think it has left me disappointed. The reviews got me to expect a transcendence. Like going from Final Fantasy 6 to 7, or Fallout 2 to 3. What I found was a good game. Better than average to be sure, but not what I was hoping for. I am lacking in fun. Right now the drive to beat it keeping me going, but I am not finding myself going, "Wow that was fun." There are many things the game does well, and I think it is fantastic for the souls community, but I think it lack appeal to the non-souls community. I don't regret buying it, and I think I will beat it, but if you are on the fence, I may hold off. If you enjoy Souls, you are in for a treat.
Legit best game of all time. All the people complaining aren’t familiar with souls games and want a casual game to hold their hands and baby them, or they’re complaining about graphics. Are you serious? Graphics is your reason for a zero? Please. If you’re not willing to break out of your casual shell then go back to playing Pokémon. If you are open to it however then get this game and be absorbed.
Honestly, fighting some bosses hitless in this game is just horrible. Margit has overly fast swings in phase 2, and Renalla spams way too much magic. This is work-around-able by having some x-factor such as a ranged attack or summons, but being fair to fist/broken sword only is what made dss, ds1 and ds3 (or even ds2) fun. In Sekiro it only gave you one option, so all bossfights were based around this type of playstyle too. Otherwise, I REALLY like it, but having some bossfights feel to passive or even **** really hurts the enjoyability of Elden Ring as a whole. P.s. I hate that one Godrick attack in phase 2. You know the one.
Everything Fromsoft is famous for ramped up to ten. More beginner friendly than previous titles without babying the player.
The best souls game ever. Giant map, much bosses and the difficult i here like the others. Congratulations From software for this masterpiece.
Wasn’t a fan of Dark Souls, but I’m having a much better time with Elden Ring
As a long-time fan of Fromsoft since DS1, my hats off on this incredible open-world adaptation of their winning game recipe. Great implementation of everything they've learned along the way. I am in love with this game!
Zelda: Breath of the Wild in new and dark setting! The level design is perfect. In total, the mix between open world and classic Dark Souls linear gameplay is very well made. It is a perfect game for one who never played a Souls game before but want to try it out once.
I love, love, love this game. Playing Elden Ring is like playing a work of art that lets the player experience development rather than just the character. No elitist woke preaching, no agendas, just an amazing game worth every penny and second.
I don't review many games as but given the high profile of this and that I have put over 30 hours in, I wanted to chime in. I've never played a Souls game so this might be useful to someone who is intrigued by the stellar reviews. I have played a ton of open world games. I feel that we have two concepts that don't fully work together. How can you champion exploration and experimentation when a brutal death (often with a steep cost) lies around every corner, many of them unavoidable the first time through? In addition, the combat gameplay doesn't benefit the open world environment. Each enemy has different moves, meaning you can't use your past experiences with other enemies to help you against new ones. Many enemies have unblockable kill moves that until you've experienced them multiple times, you won't be able to avoid. Each foe is starting over, and the only way to learn is to die over and over. It also feels like a single-player MMO. Enemies sit around or follow simple patterns, and respawn constantly. They lack any personality or real interaction. It's super-gamey. The world is super-moody and the boss design and animation is fantastic. But this just isn't the RPG/Open world experience I enjoy.
There are only 3 types of players in the world: those who love Elden Ring, those who don't like Souls-like titles and crybabies who complain for the sake of complaining, repeating what they heard from their favourite youtube reviewer that has decided to try to become cool by complaining about Elden Ring. Game is a masterpiece. Full stop.
Just wow. I’ve played the other Soulsbourne game maybe for a total of 5 hours, I just wasn’t really that into them. Elden Ring however, has me completely engrossed. FromSoftware hit a home run with this title. Games have flaws, and by no means is Elden Ring flawless. Those flaws however don’t affect gameplay in the slightest. If you’re able to ignore the **** on social media about this game, and just accept you’re going to die a lot until you figure things out, then this game will blow you away. Graphics may not be the best for a game released in 2022, but I haven’t found a game that just makes me stop everything and just look at the depth, the artwork, the sheer volume of detail put into these landscapes. Mob design is thrilling, I would be hard pressed to find the imagination going into these assets anywhere else. The story leaves a lot to your interpretation near the beginning and quest lines are hard to follow. I kept a notepad and pen with me to keep track of NPCs and locations. I haven’t done that for a game in years and it made me so excited. With that being said some quests left a bit to be desired, but the main story. I found myself wanting to find out more about locations and the main bosses. Gameplay. This is what it comes down to me for games. Bad story? If there’s amazing gameplay I can look past it. **** has the best graphics the gaming industry has ever seen, but terrible gameplay, I won’t even bother. Elden Ring does not have the best graphics, or the best story (not saying either are awful, they are both great), but the gameplay just has you coming back for more. If you’ve died to a boss 20 times, you don’t give up because you think you have just figured out how to deal with his moves. You didn’t, but you try either way. If you get frustrated you can go off and fight smaller mobs and get stronger to meet that boss again. This is one of the best games I have ever played. That’s completely my own opinion, I was extremely happy with my purchase and the replay ability is there. So I will be enjoying this game for the foreseeable future. Graphics 8/10 Story 8/10 Landscape 10/10 Gameplay 10/10
This game is the best game (in my opinion) that has come out in recent years
Definitely this game show the growing split between press/influencers and the majority of gamers. This is still a hard core game (even if the difficulty was « lowered » with an open world approach) that needs a lot of investment. Finally after 15 hours of game, you manage barely to beat Magrit with the close combat approach. It could be easier to play a magician but I don t like this approach. So you end rolling to avoid aoe strikes, then you strike max 2 times and you do it again and again After that, you keep wandering in a depressive world praying to not lose your runes.. Finally, I think this games could be great if you have a lot of time. For average gamer like me with 5-7 hours a week (this is not negligeable however ), it’s nonsense. Not very rewarding, a bit repetitive, a bit sad.. I wish I would have loved this game but I can t !
One of the Best games ever made. Taking inspiration from Zelda Breath of the Wild`s open world, Combining with From Software`s well known formula, Elden ring builds something truly special here. the sense of discovery, exploration and mystery are all there, the whole time. After Zelda, it teaches other open world games, once again, that you don`t need a map full of points of interest, quests and marks. It kills the sense of discovery. Let the player explore. Let the player discover. Let the player struggle. Let the player Thrive on his own.
Absolute stunning game, runs even very well on my PS4! The Atmosphere is very unique and the world ingame design reminds me a lot of Zelda BOTW, which I fairly liked a lot too. Although its not completely my type of genre and just a handful of few things I couldn’t get warm with, personally seeing the game overall more like a 8.5-9, I‘ll give it a 10 just to counter all those butthurt reviews.
Elden ring is a great game I'll start by saying that however it is nowhere near the 10 out of 10 that the soy boy fan boys have the dark soul series tend to give it. If you're looking for an honest review from a person who actually hates dark souls games because of how unrelentingly difficult they are and inaccessible they are to the vast majority of gamers then you've reached the right place. I've put 35 hours of game time into Elden ring and I'm a pretty high level and have beat the 1st 2 major bosses including about 15 or 20 other Mini bosses and I'm here to tell you that Elden ring's overall combat And open world is amazing.. For a new gamer it definitely takes getting used to and you will die but Once you accept that it is a difficult mountain to climb with the satisfaction of standing at the top of the peak at the end of your grueling efforts you'll come to understand the beauty of the soul's franchise. Now I'll get into the major problem for me which keeps this at an 8 instead of the 10 that everyone seems to give it. This game is almost inaccessible for new players, when you're dropped into the world you don't understand anything and no cut scene made me care enough or gave me enough information to truly understand my purpose. I've played the game for 35 plus hours and still I do not understand what it means to be tarnished what the Lands between even are or why I am in pursuit of the Elden ring. The few and far between NP c's that you do meet have 0 lip syncing and are not presented in well choreographed cut scenes and also oftentimes speak gibberish or nonsense that is difficult to understand. On top of that seeing as you don't even have something as basic as a journal to help you you often times get vague representations of Someplace far off in the distance with absolutely no true idea of where to go and because you have no quest book or log or journal of any type oftentimes the side quests that an NPC gives you are so difficult you end up having to go to YouTube instead of truly exploring the open world and finding the quest. Another thing I didn't like was the music you hear essentially the same score of music for your entire playthrough no matter what environment you go to or what part of the map you go to the music is the same thru and thru with the same track on repeat. And even with all of these problems even with the story being essentially an afterthought and and you essentially wandering around during around not knowing what to do I still find myself coming back to play this game hour after hour, Fight after fight, death after death, because the open world is on a skyrim level I'm level of discovery. Around every corner, atop every mountain, across every plane there tends to be something no matter how small worthwhile a much needed item, a new ashes of war, a new spirit summon, or maybe just maybe you get a new weapon. Bosses are so unique and so challenging that regardless of these few flaws I've told you here today which most certainly keep this game away from the fabled 10 out of 10, it is by far a great game worth playing . I know most of this review might have scared you away but I want to be completely honest when I say there are flaws that most newcomers to the dark souls franchise will not like And will not be ready for, but if you can get past that there is so much greatness here And I for one won't be the person to stray you away from such a gem. Elden ring is a great game and is a lot of fun and is worth every penny
This is the Lebron James of video games. Unparalleled pre-release hype, one of the most anticipated games ever, and somehow managed to surpass all expectations. And then when you think it has nothing left to give, it hits you with another spectacular set piece or boss battle. This is truly, without question of the best video games I've ever played and one of the best games ever made. A 10 out of 10 doesn't do it justice.
A true masterpiece by from software. Everything that previous Souls games aspired to be
This is my first review ever because its the first time in 20 years of gaming i want my money back because the market and the overhyped ratings out there just doesn't fit at all. The game looks and feels really dated. The combat mechanics feels clunky like an early 2000 game. If you are nostalgic and a Souls fan from the beginning this game is for you. If you search for a immersive game experience with a story and modern combat mechanics dont be fooled like me and dont throw your money out of the window. 2 Points for the Boss Design.
I expected this to be great but it surpassed all my expectations. The sense of exploration is unparalleled. The map opens up before you and distant features beckon you onwards. Sneaking throw forests and swamps, scratch plans ara abandoned to the intense curiosity that comes with discovering an unexpected ruin, spectral boatman, cave or castle. Razor-sharp combat mechanics reward perseverance and skill whilst punishing the impulsive with the swift admonishment of death. There is almost too much to do yet still, there are no dull moments. A masterpiece of game design and ingenuity. it is hard to see how anything can stop this from being GOTY. Indeed, it may well be the greatest game ever made.
Really enjoying Elden Rings, as someone that "liked" Dark Souls I really love Elden Ring. The minimalist UI makes you pay attention to the environment even more. The boss battles are great and challenging.
This is the first time I have felt compelled to review a game on this website specifically because I bought Elden Ring for 2 reasons: I love Fantasy RPGs, and the strength of its reviews. I bought this game upon release and have been playing it almost every day since then. I am an experienced gamer and would rate myself above average in terms of skill level, but I'm no Pro. I work full time and I have a life outside of work. I think I represent your average adult gamer whose free time is limited but still enjoys playing as a hobby. I also passed over two other nearly simultaneous big new releases because I chose this game. Now, all of that being said: think carefully before purchasing this. I think that prior to Elden Ring's release, the difficulty of the game was downplayed specifically so as not to discourage people from buying it. This game will be EXTREMELY CHALLENGING for the casual gamer. Unless you are a gifted gamer, playing Elden Ring will require many, many hours in order to succeed. You may make 99 attempts at a boss before finally getting lucky and succeeding. Or you will spend hour upon hours searching out remote items in order to give you an edge. Often times it will feel like beating your head against a brick wall. Unless you enjoy playing games on the hardest difficulty setting (I don't!) then this game is not for you. And that fact is being obscured by overly-laudatory reviews and condescending fanboys who do not recognize or appreciate the amount of time it takes to make basic progress. An additional deciding factor for me in the purchase of this game was the multiplayer. And let me tell you, multiplayer is a total blunder in Elden Ring. To start with, the process involved in joining your friends is unnecessarily complicated. And then, the game punishes you for playing together! Significantly reduced health potions, totally losing the ability to call your horse, no longer able to summon your pets (spirit wolves/jellyfish/etc), no ability to rest at the "sites of grace" to recharge your health/potions, AND THEN. Each and every single time you die, you will be separated from your friends and sent back to your home world to start the convoluted process of cooperating all over again. The multiplayer system is the single biggest fail Elden Ring can make claim to. I legitimately felt bad for convincing a friend to buy this game and play with me upon release, and I will not be recommending it to any others for this reason. Now, after listing my complaints, I should at least, to some degree, acknowledge the game's strengths (although they are surely glorified in great detail by many other reviewers). The game is beautiful. A bit too perpetually dark, but beautiful nonetheless. Truly gorgeous (except all that ugly armor). Second, although it is completely a fantasy RPG, it still manages to be unique and original. This is not a cookie-cutter fantasy game. Character creation is another strength of Elden Ring's. I don't know about you, but I love customizing my characters, and their character customization is A+. Finally, I will admit that the game still manages to be fun. That is, when you're not busy trying to stop yourself from throwing the controller at the TV, or from smashing it on the coffee table, or flipping off the "YOU DIED" screen for the ten thousandth time. It is fun, but it is tiring and frustrating to a degree that potential buyers need to be aware of - a fact that I think was intentionally obscured by pre-release reviews, and is condescendingly dismissed by the "get good" groupies who, quite simply, have more free time than you probably do.
The game is so big and beautiful that the main story gets behind the exploration feeling you get.
The game is fun. However it is not. The game has way too many unfun parts. So many enemies just spam ranged attacks and it ****. The crystal cave part with the centipede guys just spam the needles and can also attack at the same time. Also Raya Lucaria academy is lame. All the enemies will spam spells at you making it not fun after a while. Also it is not clear where to go and I ended up spending a long time to find and item instead of progress. No but really its a good game 10/10 except im not going to give it that score.
A dream come true for Souls fans. Elden Ring perfected nearly every feature.
Full transparency, I have not played the game. I would like to point out that all the negative user "reviews" actually complain, for the most part, about all the same things complained about in the user reviews for Breath of the Wild in 2017. No narrative Very few quest markers Shallow combat crappy graphics tedious exploration. As we now know none of this was the case. I think I need to buy Elden Ring
Great game. Truly a masterpiece. Crazy japanese game developers come up with the best ideas
FOR THOSE WHO DON'T LIKE ELDEN RING: It is normal to hate this type of game at first. If you give it you challenge yourself to finish this game no matter what (even watch a video of it to help). And if you do, at 10% of the adventure you will love it so much, it will be hard to like any other game. It did that to the rest of us. The video game is a masterpiece for so many players, is the game bad and we're blindfolded, or did you miss something? Instead of a review with points that you can find anywhere, I will give my feeling about this new FromSoftware: Amazing graphics, let's be honest, it is breathtaking. And I'm not talking about the definition of textures because you can find better textures in other games nowadays. The world they've created is literally stunning! The topography gives a lot of verticality to the game and you find yourself wanting to go to a place just because you can see a crazy looking castle or tree from afar. Animations, particules, shadows, wind in nature, enemies, there is so much to see. The gameplay itself is so flowless, switch from one weapon to another, invoking spirits, the hit/parry is brilliant. However the camera can be finicky sometimes, as well as the "lock enemies" that can sometimes lock an enemy far away while you wanted the one that is in front of you (happens sometimes but it can be anoying to die for that). The game alternate extremely well between outside environment and dungeons, forcing you to diversify your way of playing. The loot is great, just great. They found the right dose of rare equipment (it's not a Diablo III) and being able to find some randomly or by exploring. The rewards at the end of big side quests are crazy but of course require stats you can't afford yet and that's excellent because that let you enjoy the ones you have right now but still looking forward to it. The beginning story is good for now but hard to follow, there's so many names. Sekiro had an easier story to follow, so it feels like a downgrade to me here, but I'm not far into the story yet to judge. Overall an amazing game that I will discover for the next years to come. Thank you FromSoftware.
GOAT game. The only people who disagree most likely are literally ****. You want a deep story? Read a book. You want photo-realistic graphics? Leave your mom's basement and go outside. Boom, btw. I win.
as close to perfection as a video game or any other media gets for me Elden ring is a masterpiece in its combat, storytelling, (open) world design, and music the combat is simple yet the actions of the enemies makes ever single desicion in combat important, do you strike now or bait out their attack first so you dont take the risk of trading damage? do you heal now or maybe wait one more hit so you dont waste your limited healing recourses? every moment in combat has a desicion to be made and that makes the combat never boring because you are always on high alrets on what your next move should be. there is also a massive amount of options to consider when partaking in combat what kind of weapon will you use, a greatsword with amazing range or perhaps a kitana smaller but faster and easier to evade with how much armor will you wear, will you put a lot of heavy armor taking less damage however being more difficult to dodge with? perhaps your feeling like long range options, a bow or crossbow function diverently and and multiple way of attack and arrow types which are all useful. magic more your thing? have 2 different version in sorcery's and incantations both of which have powerfull offensive abilities and more passive supporting and defensive abilities you options in this game are insane and all of them are viable and i haven't even covered all of it like the ashes of war which can completely change how you use a weapon. The main story of elden ring is a simple but effective one its when you start reading the descriptions of the items, armor's and weapons you collect and look closely at the world around you is when the smaller details of the story are shown and the fact you can get the basic premise of the story if you wish or delve more deep into the story to uncover what trully happened is amazing. this game has the best open world out of any video game i have ever played the previously mentioned storytelling is one of many reason but there is so much more open world games have for a long time carried the stigma of them being empty or having nothing to do expect reach missions elden ring has a massive world to uncover and thankfully it is never boring or not helpful you will always find something that will help you in your future journeys like new weapons, armors or ashes of war which massively shake up the gameplay. these are also very well placed and spaced, there is no place or area in elden ring that does not hold something either interesting or helpful it perfectly filled with goodies to collect and enemies to conquer the graphics may indeed not be the greatest on the market however that was never the intention of the developers of elden ring (FromSoftware) they let the beautifull design and amzing art direction carry their games and elden ring has both in spades. no 2 area's looks alike and all of it feel like a different world to explore a lot of this games design ties back to the storytelling and the world crafted within its story is beautifully crafted what a lot of people consider a negative in this game is it's difficulty but this is no random occurrence by poor design FromSoft has stated multiple times they aim to create hard games and they want their players to overcome the challenges set before them the difficulty in elden ring is perfectly crafted (for the most part) all enemies have a wind up to their attacks that shows when, how and where to dodge THIS is video game difficulty done right there is no cheap enemy that ignores the rules of the game to cheapshot you, there is not isntant kill attack that you cannot avoid. by using death as a learning tool the player will slowly learn how to properly evade and conquer the enemies before them, as long as they never give up. it's not a matter of live and death, its about what breaks first. your will or the barries in your way the one objective problem this game does face (at the moment of writing this review) is the frame rate problems this game is stuck at a capped 60FPS and will sometimes dip to 45 for a second this happens maybe once every 20 to 30 minutes this isn't a massive problem (not to me at the very least) however it is still a problem that needs fixing FromSoftware is steadily pushing out more updates to help out this problem which hopefully shouldn't exist in the near future. and to the person considering buying this game, please read both sides of the reviews and see which side is clearly trying to review bomb this game over things it was never meant to be or has no control over and look at the side giving detail on why this game succeeds in what it sets out to do. miyazaki and the entire fromsoft team has trully outdone themselves here, for any fan of their work or newcomer this is their masterpiece and i cannot reccomend it enough. all in all elden ring is a beautiful, intense, expansive and immersive masterpiece that i implore any fan of video games to try out
Horrible game! The graphics are from 2006 at best. The game has no guidance what so ever. No quest logs or anything to show progression. Do not waste money on this game like I unfortunately have.
A brilliant evolution of the Soulsborne formula. It makes sense the critic scores are higher than users' - critics are professionals who don't feel bound to give a 0 for effect. I ask someone who gives this a zero - what make you choose that over a 1/10 or 2/10 for a game that has been taken forwards from already critically acclaimed titles like DS3 and Bloodborne? For those who criticise the emptiness and drip-fed story - these are also USPs of the successful Soulsborne series. And Shadow of the Colossus and Breath of the Wild are relatively "empty" but also brilliant. I'll listen to the experts and my own experience thank you very much.
Great game!! Very hard not for everyone but for the players who honestly what to give it ago and up for a challenge with game that does hold your hand 24/7 then this is for you!!! Graphic not out of this world but no From Software game is like that...
Miyazaki managed to create the absolute best game ever, he did it, the absolute mad man. I just don't get how or why people are review-bombing this masterpiece, it's just so sad and pathetic.
Generation defining masterpiece. This game singlehandedly reboots the whole stagnant gaming industry.
Thank you FromSoft for not making a dumbed down game catered to the entitled and lazy community. A lot of crying going on about game design aspects like UX being nonexistent, and not having a quest log... really? It's a unique game design, deal with it. There are some performance issues yes, but it has in NO way ruined my experience, hope they iron out the kinks and then it will be perfect. This game is genius, and truly hope they don't cave in to the negativity. There are plenty of hand-holding games out there. This is my jam and I am loving every minute of it.
What can i say this game is goty 100% and probably game of decade. Love to see dlc to play another houndred of hours
This is my first FromSoft game. I think I might have played Dark Souls 1 when it FIRST came out for like two hours before quitting and never picking it up again (I say this just to show my lack of any experience with FromSoft games) but Elden Ring has completely immersed me in a way few games are able to do anymore. I used to LOVE open world games, but the last few years they’ve become a chore to get through, I’m not invested in the story, and it’s just endless fetch quests. Elden Ring has completely reinvigorated my love for open world games and what they can accomplish. This game is HARD- like I died at least 80-100 times on one boss. But, it rewards perfecting a strategy and learning how each boss moves and when you finally do win in a hard fought battle, the satisfaction and happiness lasts long afterwards because you know you didn’t just have to button mash to get the win. I think I played a full 16 hours yesterday and didn’t want to put it down but needed to sleep. I woke up and immediately couldn’t wait to start playing again. If you want a real challenge and the immense satisfaction of overcoming some of the hardest boss fights I’ve ever faced in gaming, I highly recommend this game. I think after I play through a new game plus I’ll try the other FromSoft games
So I have had a colossal amount of fun with this game and went on here to read what others are saying and boy was I surprised, until I read the reviews. They have fundamentally misunderstood what this game is, and isn't. And some complaints are just petty. Most of the negative reviews seem to not understand the well established formula that FromSoftware games have had for 15 years. Why would they change it now? No the game doesn't have a quest-log. For me this adds to the immersion and my curiosity. How do I reach that tower? Where did that NPC say he was going next? This is also a formula that FromSoftware has worked with since Demon's souls and harkens back to RPG:s and adventure games from the 1990:s so I don't understand the outrage. The game can be hard, yes, but why should all games be for all people? I don't particularly like Naughty dogs games but if you do then more power to you. I'm not gonna write a review on Uncharted saying I wish it had enormous swords instead of guns and rate it 0. That would be dumb. I understand that those games are not for me. There most certainly is a story. Again, this storytelling technique might not be for everyone but it has worked for FromSoftware for a long time and I for one quite like it. Why do people think they would then release a linear cinematic experience when that is not the kind of game they make. This honestly baffles me. This is already my favorite game of the last few years and on my top ten. And I'm not even close to done with it. There's so much to explore, bosses to kill and upgrades to get. It has given me a sense of childlike wonder like no other game has for ages. It does have some performance issues but I haven't encountered any game breaking or lasting issues on PS5. I'm also sure that the frame rate issues are gonna get patched out in a matter of weeks. This game is huge and is getting bigger with every stone I turn. I accidentally found a huge hidden city with two boss fights in it. I was in that moment awestruck by the sheer scale of this game. In my opinion, if you like RPG/adventure games and is OK with dying as a game mechanic, this game is a must play and for me the experience is a 10/10. Sorry for the long post. I got so confused by the reviews I had to write down my thoughts.
Best game of this generation hands down, aswell as the most fun, filled, and intense open world experience.
Even though its only my second FromSoftware game (1st was Bloodborne), I must say I'm absolutely thrilled about this game. The atmosphere, the gameplay, the audio and the size is totally 10/10. I subtract one point due to some minor performance issues on PS5, as well as the absolute worst part: almost no integration of the dualsense features. I really don't get this, they used it in Demon's Souls with great success (from what I've read).
Frame drops are so annoying, graphics are stuck in last gen, sounds in game when killing someone are like other games of from software there are issues for connecting controller to pc the screen just rotates around.
This Game is soo beatifull, the bosses are hard but not rlly unfair. Ive spend so much time just riding around and explore the big world. I hope you‘ll love this game too.
The least useful user score you'll ever find. This is one of the best games that have ever been made for so many reasons. And I can only be sorry for those who think this is fanatism, because they are the same that didn't enjoy BOTW for the weapon breaking or avoided Death Stranding because they thought it was a game about walking that only hardcore Kojima fans would defend. Really, really sorry for you, seriously. You are missing a big part of videogame history for the stupiddiest reasons I can think of.
The game is so good. The open world is huge and never feels empty. You always have something to do or **** art direction is beautiful despite the slightly dated technique, without being horrible, but you get through it quickly. I just wish the menu was a bit easier to use. If you like games that don't take you by the hand, play Elden Ring!
Greate game good bosses all around and great music to go with it, the only thing I can say that is bad is that sometime I get some lag but that fine with me it’s still a great game and I’ll keep playing it for a long time. Also hope there some great DLC for this game as well
Got the platinum trophy after a week and a half. This game is such a beautiful culmination of everything from software has been building. I do empathize with pc players dealing with bugs on launch but I don’t think that deserves a review bombing. This is from softwares final fantasy 7. Well done!
If you lack taste and think that an open world game must have fishing Do not buy
The game is the real meaning of trash and waste of time and cost Don't be deceived by the advertisement and screenshots
Quite simply one of the best games I've ever played. I am around 50 hours in and still have so much to uncover.
It's breath of the ring. What more could you possibly want? Absolute masterpiece.
The game is good but not to the extent the reviews have shown it to be. The Game starts great but gets dragged on after say 15-20 hours . Many of the bosses are repetitive & recycled (esp. later in the game) & are cheap in the sense that they are quite easy. A fun gameplay is the one where you have to work out to come against challenges but here if you are just a bit smart enough you will be moving like an OP player most of the time taking away all the fun of the game itself. It has a tedium quest system i.e. you need to explore open world to defeat story bosses . This is a very old structure & many a times it has been been criticized & condemned as poor game structure but none of the reviewers is pointing it here ..why because its a souls game. The game is saved by its art direction, it is praise-worthy otherwise the Graphics are poor, many parts it is generic & shows no work is done on the graphical department just used the Graphic editor output as it is, overall quite poor it is in parts. NPCs & story is actually forgotten . We are still not over with it. The Icing on the cake is the performance , it not only stutters at 4K but also at 1080p(on a 2080ti), Damn what these reviewers are doing ?? that being not pointed out by reviewers is just bad, totally bad ..Are they paid?? It just lacks polishing compared to other titles. What’s bad and lazy in the game is just plain bad and lazy. I believe that developers got this advantage that it is a souls game so even small or big things like camera issues etc are planned in the game intentionally . Overall the game is quite overhyped with all those giving it a 10 have never played a good open world before or either new to gaming or have just gone with the trend of high rating it. Be careful. Its a game which one should try out after the game is around or below 20$ . Its nothing close to Bloodborne or Sekiro. Gave it a 6/10 because of its performance issues otherwise its a solid 8/10 . Graphics - 2.5/5 Art Direction - 4.5/5 Story/NPCs - 2/5 Gameplay - 4/5 (not counting the recycled & repetitive stuff) Discovery & Adventure feel - 3.5/5(your mileage will vary) Sound - 4/5 Music - 3/5 Open-World - 3.5/5
This is one amazing game. I had to request a refund on PC and buy it for PS since the PC port was horrible. The game would not even start. However, now I'm playing it on PS and I am enjoying it so much. The design, game play, lore, and the secrets and the scenery are simply impressing. By the way, there is no "surprise mechanics" in this game, so Dice, EA and many others should start taking notes! The inventory system needs some updates, the community of Elden Ring is strong and very helpful, and this is definitely not a game you want to rush. Take your sweet time because you are not competing with streamers, enjoy it at your own pace. Good luck and have fun.
This game is the culmination of all the latest From software games, incredible art direction, world building, game play and designs overall. A big dark souls with a vast, dense and amazing open world. Props to From software for keep delivering us such amazing games.
Once again, the game did not disappoint. Interesting and challenging bosses, great open world and so much more to indulge with the game.
Best game I have played in a long time. Ran great straight from launch, and is more engaging than any other recent game I’ve played.
Just amazing. Second best From Soft game. Rhodan is **** though. Dumb bossfight
Initially I gave it a 4 but after approximately 80 hours of gameplay I've had to adjust the score a bit. If you play the game like a normal Dark Souls game where you follow a linear path, you'll end having the worst time of your life with this game. There are certain dungeons that I have skipped entirely because of the frustration they cause even after levelling up (mostly due to other than combat-related mechanics), and the rewards you get from finishing dungeons in general often end up being very disappointing, but I would still say that it's a worthy addition to the Soulslike genre. I also tried multiplayer for the first time ever (coop only), and offering a helping hand feels very satisfying.
Graphics : ★★★☆☆ Review : It's not the graphic of the next generation.(PS5) Game Scenario : ★★☆☆☆ Review : Where is the story? Game Play : ★★★★☆ Review : If you don't jump and ride a horse, you can call it Dark Souls 4. It means it's fun.
Elden Ring is one of the best games to date from Fromsoftware. It's up there with DS3 and Sekiro. I am almost 35 hours in and loving every second of it. There is so much to explore and do that I don't even see an end in sight. 10/10
This game is absolutely amazing. I love the world design and the enemies are so cool looking. It feels so good to play and grind until you become the ultimate champion.
Imagine writing a 1 star review for one of the best games of our generation and maybe even our lifetimes
The best open world game I’ve played, fromsoftware did it again. Game of the year for sure, it is a joy to play and I can’t wait for dlc.
just dark souls but open world, which seems unnecessary. I've been to four caves so far and three of them had recycled bosses, petty disappointing.
The best game offering yet from FromSoft, a true masterpiece ****. Enough content to keep a fan satisfied for literally YEARS. Thank Mr. Miyazaki
have a good way to fight. But you only fight. dont have any story. You cant see your dialogs. its so simple combos.
This is the ultimate souls-like experience. 50h in and I already consider this as best From Software's game. Thank you, Miyazaki, for this masterpiece.
English not supported in Asia, not even in countries with English as an official language.
As a long time FromSoftware fan. I must say that this game is phenomenal. It has everything any 'Souls-like' fan would like. For newer players it provides the opportunity to approach these games in a different way. You can go off the beaten path and level through "easier" mobs before taking on the bigger challenges. FromSoft truly out did themselves with this one. This game went far beyond my expectations, and I am looking forward to truly exploring The Lands Between further. Congrats on the love FromSoft, it's much deserved.
This isn't a game for everyone. There is no hand holding but a vague sense of direction. You will be punished for being greedy but rewarded for patience and tenacity. The game is beautiful and immersive. I'm currently 60 hours in and more than half of tbe world still needs to be explored.
I just love every second I'm playing this game. There are times where I stopped and thinking "Is this game really made by humans? It's so good, it's almost like god created it himself". I don't think any other game can top this for me. It's just the ultimate experience for action-adventure RPG.
This the perfect version of Dark Souls as far as gameplay is concerned. Lots of systems that didn’t quite work in the previous games now make perfect sense. Exploration is continually rewarded. Boss fights are challenging and just like people wanted them to be. The problem is really me, I’m not most people. In fact, I’m downright weird. Which in this case means I actually played these torturous games – Demon’s Souls, Dark Souls, Bloodborne, and Sekiro – not for the challenge, but for their worldbuilding, their characters, in short, the stories they had to tell. Don’t get me wrong. All of that is still there. But it’s buried underneath dozens of hours of exploration and venturing into mini-dungeons. These are, in theory, well-designed. After all, all of them are handcrafted. They aren’t procedurally generated Chalice Dungeons like in Bloodborne. Some of them even have lore significance. But most of them have very little in the way of that upon closer examination. Oh, you’ll be amply rewarded for going in and clearing out the baddies. This is not like Breath of the Wild where you get the same orb 100 times. But see, I’m just not the type of person who cares. And that’s where my issue is with this game. Exploring the open world is required so you can level up and defeat the real bosses of the main quest. I’d rather not. The ratio of “just another item I won’t use because I already got the Heater Shield and Longsword at the start” to discovery of important locations and encounters with actually interesting characters is about 5:1, being very generous. Note that I did not finish this game, and I think that that’s unreasonable to expect of a single human being. But I did put 40 hours into it and reached the capital, thoroughly underleveled. I’m dropping it now, even though it hurts to never see the development of all these characters go anywhere. I know that for lots of people, this’ll be a 10/10 experience. Just not for freaks like me, sorry to say. And as you’re probably also one of those, don’t buy this game. It’s not worth it for you. And I know I’m talking to one of you because you actually read my entire thing. Toodles.
First off, I can call myself a Soulsborne veteran at this point. After Bloodborne I went back and played every game since Demon’s Souls and even recently completed the remake. But the formula is getting boring and Elden Ring does literally nothing new outside of being set in a directionless open world. The move to an open world also destroyed everything that was actually fun about the earlier games. Secret shortcuts- almost none. Great rewards for defeating bosses you spent hours defeating- nope but hope you like getting a bunch of useless crafting materials or NOTHING AT ALL. The reviewers major outlets chose are mostly Fromsoft veteran fanboys who believe every Souls game is a masterpiece. If you’re a veteran like me and felt the games were getting a bit stale DO NOT BELIEVE the 97 score. This game does nothing revolutionary for Souls games or for open world titles.
This was one of the best games I’ve ever played almost have the platinum trophy. And wish I had way more too do the only problem I had was I had to look a bunch of stuff up
This game is incredible, but unforgiving. I have never played a From Software game before, and they are definitely not for the casual gamer. If your looking for an easy ride it’s maybe best to replay ratchet and clank. The graphics for this game are phenomenal, anyone saying otherwise clearly fails to recognise the art style, combined with the sheer size, details and depth of the world available to explore in Elden ring. As of writing this review I am roughly 20 hours in, and will update as I finish in what could easily be a 60+ Hour play through. My only complaint would be the story, which has so far left a bit to be desired. As far as I can tell I’m all about getting this ring, cus then I’ll be Lord and all the other tarnished can **** it
Never played a souls game. Watched lots of people screaming in frustration whilst they played them and thought that's not for me. Saw the promise that Elden Ring would be a more approachable game, designed for regular gamers to get into. Turned out that was a big fat lie. It's no more approachable than any From software experience. The world is, ironically, pretty souless and a drab sepia colour. Every enemy is overpowered, the hit boxes, lag, and aiming are in dire need of fixing, leveling up is obtuse and painfully slow, and the general gameplay was the pinnacle sometime in the 90's. You can jump though, so that's novel. From software seem to have missed the point that games are supposed to be fun, they should really take some notes from more sophisticated games like The Witcher or Cyberpunk, Elex etc It's a game built to frustrate, one that punishes you if you attempt to wring any enjoyment out of the world they have built. If you have a masochistic streak, enjoy games that lack any sophistaction, or just harken back to the gaming era when games were hard because that was the limitation of the hardware then this is for you. Otherwise hang on to your cash, there will be much better games to spend it on soon.
Masterpiece, I'm 30 hours into it and every second of this game amazes me. It's huge, pretty and the content is gold. One of the best game ever, period!
The best Dark soul experience, I've played since dark souls 1 and this is the way to go I'm very pleased for everything
One of the best video games of all time. Shame that paste eating trolls have to swoop in to try to ruin it. The game is beautiful. Better combat than pretty much any other game. Music has a sense of unparalleled grandeur. Open world is wildly exciting. I can definitely understand non-souls vets thinking the game is “ok” but anyone giving the game a 0 is a worthless degenerate.
I'm 90 hours in. And I can't stop thinking about this game. The amazing places we get to see, the amounts of different fights, the insane amounts of possible gamestyles/builds, the exploration, oh my god. This game made me gasp so many times... So far...! Also kinda Made me rage quit several times. Had to do some meditation and get back to it. Praise the fingers.
Honestly didn’t have fun. I expected this to be a step up from the other FromSoft games. However, the movement is the same, the bosses are the same weird FromSoft design they’ve always been, the mechanics are still somewhat clunky, and there’s still very little story to be had. If you like DS games then you’ll like this too but as a long term fan I really wanted this to be difficult but better in all the other ways too.
I bought the game because of the hype created on the internet, but I found the game to be very tedious and dark. I forced myself to play for 70 hours to try to find everything they were talking about but I gave up. incredibly disappointing
Enough of the unreliable, emotional review bombs from users. I use to consider users just as if not more credible with their reviews **** than critics, but these days they seem too quick to complain about a game than post any sound criticism. Elden Ring has a story, a beautiful open world with next-generation art design And graphics. The controls and action are smooth, and there are loads of content to keep players exploring while developing and honing the skills to survive in the unforgiven Lands of Between. I left my wife to.
Very artistic game with dark soul energy. Love the boss fight and a bit different than the traditional soul's bourne genre. The storyline is interesting. Love the gameplay.
Ignore review bombings it’s a phenomenal game with lots to explore and for the people who think that not having a quest log is terrible this game is not for you otherwise if you like souls games or a newcomer you should try this out I can easily recommend this for newcomers to souls genre because instead of fighting a boss over and over until you beat him you can go explore the world level up gets stronger and return to fight the boss it’s really fun and I recommend it but it’s challenging so if you hate challenge I don’t like a lot of mechanics for leveling up Then this gives not for you otherwise I strongly recommend it
A great game overall, regarding fake reviews about an empty world, that's totally false. The world is massive filled with dungeons and enemies. The only issue is performance, it'll prolly get fixed in the near future. It's nearly a perfect game, the first one since rdr2
I am well aware of other people's gripes with the game, I am not massive souls fan but I have played each of them and quite enjoyed them. I agree with others reviews that the games reuses models, even from Dark Souls 3, that there are pop ins when you load into an area. However the main complaints seems to be that people don't know how to play a game that doesn't hold your hand. People who expect to be guided like a baby and told what to you, this is not the game for you. Everything is about exploration and beating a challenge, or learning when to move on and return later. It is true that there are NPC quests but the game doesn't mark it on the map. The NPCs will tell you or hint at what you have to do and its is up to you to figure it our or stumble on the location like I have most of the time. I don't really care about graphics, but the game is very beautiful. Is it Horizon levels of gorgeous, of course not, this is a game where gameplay seems to be the main focus and graphics second. Which is fine by me, as no matter how gorgeous a game may look if it **** ass I will get bored quick. As far as gameplay is concerned, its very FromSoft. You can be a giant hammer wielding sorcerer, or a shield only lightning faith build, or a dual wielding katana, one dealing bleeding damage and another poison, a fire wielding double lance user who throws holy dame when two handing. There are many ways to play the game and yes unlike other soul games, you can respec. Don't let salty reviewers who don't know how to read or have no patience tell you what to do or think, but do keep this in mind. If you have no patience and don't like dying over and over, need to told what to do to enjoy a game then this is definitely not for you. Regarding story, it is fine. Its not as hidden or confusing as in Dark Souls or Bloodborne. I understood the overall plot, the smaller details I will learn through VaatiVidya, as will most likely all of use giving a high score, like I said above FromSoftware games aren't loved by their story but its gameplay. If there is one issue I do have with the game, is the NPC quest component. Unlike previous games this world is huge, having at least a journal in game with the last conversation has with each NPC would be good enough for me. On the other hand, I'm going old school keeping a journal myself with areas and NPC met, its pretty fun and I've never been much of a notetaker.
An absolutely master piece! The very game that kills any soul-like game existing, even those by From Software. When the whole industry is trying replicate the success of Dark Soul series, Hidetaka Miyazaki just show us the ultimate version of soul game. yyds!
I own both PC and PS5 versions of the game. For PS5 version i will ignore the technical aspects. To call this game Open World RPG will be huge misleading the gamers. It is not a story driven RPG. The "world" is not lived in. It is not a meaningful representation of any world setting. Best way to explain what it is a Lovecraftian nightmarish realm with bosses and monsters spread around the map. Only meaningful anchors for a human players are the occasional NPCs that are as vendors. They are incredibly out of place, literally and figuratively. So this cannot be the best Open World RPG game ever, since it is neither a open world nor an RPG game. It is a soul game takes place on a open area/field. It is more like a monster fighting arena game with skill progression. It is not something you can compare to Witcher3 or Skyrim etc. Let's get that part straight first since professional media is misleading players who are not familiar with Soul games. Defining characteristic of a Soul game is "extremely hard" boss fights. And not its story. Not so surprisingly that is also the case here. There is no meaningful story here, there are tons of obscure and non sensical narrative. Part Japanese translation, part source material. Whatever GRR martin has written (if any), clearly developer just tromped on it and what is left is nonsensical garbage. You will enjoy this game, if primary reason you play the games is challenge and skill progression. The game is closer to MMOs than single player open world RPGs. You need to farm a lot in this game to give your character a chance to kill next required boss. It has even same MMO raid zoning type setups in the game. Now i know i sound negative. But in reality game is an addictive and good game. It is more like 7 or 8 out of 10. That is if you like the unique genre this game is. Yes there is something like that. It is called "Soul like" games. You die hundreds of times and build the skillset to kill impossibly difficult nightmarish next boss. Graphics of the game is closer to Oblivion than Skyrim, much worse than Witcher3, or Red Dead Redemption. It runs on old engine. Developer tried to compensate this by adding "Silmarillion" style majestic light trees, and that is creating an illusion of fantastic setting. graphics are poor. But artistic style is good, with what is available to them developers created an interesting world. I wish they actually put some stories in there to explain the lore behind it. Overall it is the best Souls game. but it is no way the best open world RPG where all reviewers are lying about. Be aware before buying. Especially the ones that are not familiar with this genre. So how did this game got the 10/10 scores from all professional reviewers. It looks like there is a simple answer. Because unlike other games, only the "soul fanatics" reviewed this game. Why is that? Because game is so so difficult to play and beat in the given time frame for a preview of 1 week, for most media sites, only the Fans of the Soul like games have committed to the review, and result is magnum opus rating, for a not so magnum opus product. Now that said, i started to enjoy more and more as i play the game. It is extremely addictive and exploration and character progression aspects are well done. So i am altering my score to 6. I think if you are not uber fan of souls genre, this is more reasonable rating. Ultimately IMO Elden ring is not an RPG game, it is an Arcade game with similarities to modern MMOs than popular open world RPGs. Its biggest flaw in my mind it does not have a cohesive story, you can finish this entire game and you wouldnt know what the heck it was about. Every human you encounter in this world, save few NPCs are hostile against you. By definition the world is not immersive, it is an arcade battleground with focus on combat and killing bosses. Peace out.
oh man what an amazing gaming experience i hope people who are review bombing will have a car accident
Don't pay attention to the anonymous review bombers. This game is amazing. I just didn't give it a 10 because there's no option to play with a quest log and objective marker. As someone new to FS games but familiar with RPG's, this is the one thing that I will never get used to and even a bit annoyed with. Other than that, the game, aside from some performance issues on PC which I'm sure will be fixed, this game is fantastic. Amazing aesthetic, music, bosses, armor, weapons. Lots of things to do and a massive, and I mean MASSIVE open world. Every place feels unique with every area offering different enemies and challenges to overcome. Absolute must play and definite GOTY contender
Feels like a real world that you can lose yourself in, nothing is boring, its so addictive. Give it a go!
A game that will surely bring hours of joy if you have the time to offer it.
Unresponsive controls, bad graphics, i am fine with high difficulty but first few hours should be easier so you learn the game a bit, not just super hard bosses in first hour of game
Best open world game in recent years, you will get lost in the big big world and that's a good thing. Nowadays too many game hand-held you and tell you to go here and there, character's continuously talking to themselves what they should do, or like a giant pop-up tutorial that stops the gameplay completely to tell you how to attack, I'm glad this game is not any of those. You will see a lot of reviewers giving this game a low score because of complaints of "bad UX" or no accessibility, but in fact, if you miss the old game that are challenging and exploring how to clear a stage, this the the perfect game for you.
Great game. Still surprising me after 100 hours. If you are a fan of souls like genre, you will love this game. It's truly massive and a masterpiece.
Amazing! This game is a master piece! One of a kind. Probably not for everyone, but it truly sets the bar up.
This is my biggest video-game-disapointment ever. A dark souls game of extreme quality, that has been opened for the casual gamer. That was my expectation. Now, 30 hours of later, im deinstalling, and am not going to ever play this, nor buy any From Software game ever again... Honestly: I regret the 30 hours of frustration i had, and the hilarious amount i paid for it. It basically is just a fighting simulator. There is nothing more in this game. Run around, fight difficult to impossible (for me) battles, grind endlessly, progress extremely slowly, and, from time to time, discover items that may or may not be useful for you. You will die a lot, lose all character progress regulairly, and generally, have no idea what this game is actually about. The story is non-existent, the world is extremely lifeless, and just filled with enemies that wait only or you, and the storyline will come to an end pretty fast, because you will just not be able to beat the bosses. At least, if you are a casual gamer iike me. Which forces you to battle easy opponents forever, as rewards and character developement are hardly more than a cosmetic feature. Of course there are ways to exploit the game, but as soon as i need youtube in a tab to achieve any chance of progression, a game has failed for me. My last experience in this game, after exploring the whole starting region desperately, was a sorceress who finally enabled me to learn new spells. Which gave me hope, that the torture had come to an end. And guess what: Those spells are far weaker than the weak ones, that you start with. Its a slap in the face, and im sure, that its an intended one. This is Elden Ring in a nutshell...
Masterpiece! Meisterwerk! Game of the Year Inc. Great open World. Awesome Boss fights
Game is meh, too hard and kind of boring. Looks like a ps3 game. The "GeT gOoD" kids are just rallying around a developer. FromSoftware could give them a turd on a plate and they would rate it a 10
Holy crap this is 100% the greatest fromsoft game, and easily became one of my favorite games of all time, some people say that this is just dark souls 3 rip off but trust me its more than that. Elden Ring is simply a masterpiece
Elden Ring despite what I was hoping didn't do anything new to the FromSoft formula, besides add an open world. Alone that wouldn't warrant a negative review, but the combat gets clunkier and clunkier each new game as the bosses get faster and faster. It felt mandatory for each boss to have an AOE attack, a ranged attack, and some type of drawn out combo that afterwards gives you about two hits of room before it's back to unrelenting dodging. Exploring the open world was my favorite aspect of the game. It was fun getting sidetracked trying to get better gear or advance an NPCs quest. But after that it was back to running headfirst into mandatory bosses that are just way, way to fast for the combat. It felt like after Bloodborne Fromsoft wanted to move in a direction of more constant and relentless combat, but haven't found, atleast to me, an enjoyable balance between player and boss. It's not a bad game, it's just one that I feel falls very short of its predecessors, doesn't expand on the combat system that's becoming rapidly dated with new boss designs. The story is the same as other fromsoftware games but a new setting. Insert fantasy land, insert event that breaks it apart, mandatory magic/religious/intellectual institute. It's not bad, it's just not new. But the real story comes from the characters and there quests, which are on par with other Fromsoft games. After six previous games of the same story telling formula I would have liked to see a bit more direction with NPC quests, especially in an open world game, as when an NPC tells you to go meet this other person but without any direction it can become very tedious trying to track them down. Most people likely just went to a wiki or guide, and I can't blame them. Overall if you're a returning Fromsoft fan they're is a good chance you'll enjoy it, but don't hold your hopes to high about sizable change in the formula, and if you had issues with it before they're going to come back here.
Absolutly awesome. That's how an open world should be like. It's certainly a mix of BotW and Dark Souls. The horse combat is fantastic and well incorporated in the fighting. Couldn't recommend it more. I play on XSX and there are no issues at all. A bit of balancing needs to be done probably, spells seem so much better than incantations, but that's a minor issue.
Take your time at the beginning, introduce yourself to this open world. If you expect this game to be like other open world games that automaticly leed you through everything - this is not line that. But if you take your time, try to understand that this game is everything that gamers where looking for in terms of new experiences. This Game is a Hardcore Game by any means. And to all people criticising the Hardcore-ness of this game by telling things like bla bla it is not showing you anything bla bla ... Hardcore in terms of Souls Games is not "Witcher-3-on-Deathmarch-Hardcore". As I said, if you take your tome to lern the mechanics you will eventually understand how this game works. If you take it slowly and are nosy as hell you will be rewarded like you have never been rewarded.
Masterpiece Best open world game in history Best gameplay Best souls like game ever
Spectacular! I always wonder about the people that give games like this a zero. What is a perfect game for them.
No graphics issue on ps5. Stop review bombing this game based on pc performance! Throughly enjoyed my 10+ hours PER DAY in the last three days. Honestly think this is game of the decade. Open world is full of interesting stuff. You JUST NEED TO LOOK FOR THEM!
Not hardest or easiest fromsoft title. The cheapest and most unfair. You are constantly either being 1 shot, or instantly knocked prone and then killed while helpless by an automatic follow up. every third step you are being ambushed by design from enemies who appear off screen or behind you. The character is slow and plodding while all the enemies and especially bosses are very fast and hyper aggressive. This feels like a knock off game trying to get sales for being a "soulslike"
Lovin' it! Gets 9 from me for looking worse than Dark Souls 3. Other things are great! The world is massive. I guess this is what every fan wanted.
This is the ultimate version of Dark Souls thanks to its vast and gigantic open world.
no ultrawide support, trying to use 3rd party program like flawless widescreen gives you warning you must use a "different" exe to bypass the anti cheat, imagine using a monitor with a resolution that's widely supported by 99% of other games considered "cheating" what a joke
FROMSOFT delivers yet again. Please buy this; support this company, there one of the very few good ones left.
I’ve just wasted £50 unable to go beyond 1% of the game. **** feeling or being conned. It was my first and last ever game by FROM SOFTWARE. I have fallen to reviewers, not halted much by company’s PR team, talking how this title is a great entry point even for newbies. It really isn’t. Biomes look fun, graphics are OK and items do have nice soul/climate behind them. That’s why 2/10. Can’t add points for monsters: their concepts is cool but physics and animation break immersion really bad. Everything else is still too difficult for me to enjoy. I have just spend £50 on game that’s I’m physically unable to play due to my reflexes not being enough. Feeling totally scammed. And obviously there’s no way to return it. I had few other disappointments in last 2 years and I think it’s about time I stopped buying games. Either you give me a free demo or you’re in a subscription service - just say no to buying games. Seriously, feels of **** scam here surprise even me. I guess that’s 1% of how people scammed by emails about **** enlargement must feel like.
I have a love/hate relation with the soul series and Elden Ring is no different! It does improves on the « Pros » with the open world and amazing environment and ennemy design but the same old « Cons » remain! The game will hammer you with tons of very cheap deaths. Deaths you suffer from bad gameplay where you feel the « game » got you killed, not the ennemy. I died hundreds if not a Thousand times because of camera twists and turns that got me totally lost and stuck and unable to dodge or jumping off a cliff trying to. They often make you face big guys in narrow corridors/hallway where half of your weapon swings are gonna end up « pinging » against a wall/doorway while the ennemy attacks will pass right through them. Diying 10 minutes after last « grace/bonfire » in such a cheap way is beyond frustrating. Having to run back and re-do all the fights you had a hard time to reach your runes only to die again in a cheap manner makes you wanna rage quit every time. It’s sad cause the rest of the game is amazing! Graphics/sound/class/skills/spells/etc everything is 10/10. If the combat gameplay wouldn’t feel this clunky, that would be my best game of all time.
Masterpiece is all i have to say about this game, it has performance issues which I didn’t reduce score for because it usually gets fixed anyway.
Best game i have ever played in my life .I literally can't find better game than this game.
Elden ring is a great game with amazing exploration and it was overall a good experience. There was lot of times where the boss AI would break and freeze or just stop attacking etc which was a bit odd and the only reason I am giving a 7 and not a 8 is because of some game breaking bugs which made me go back many hours on a 50 hour save file because of a soft lock bug which was known throughout the community. Great game overall.
Hugely overrated game. It looks beautiful, and is definitely enjoyable, but has nothing that's actually new. The usual dodge/parry/counter combat we've seen a million times before but this time in an empty open world. No story, very little character interaction, and almost no dialogue. It does seem that souls-like games tend to get over-exaggerated scores because gamers think they need to be taken more seriously 'coz hardc0re'
Definetly the worst game from the soul series, as it even gets to be called a "soul series game" even though it pretends (or was marketed pretending to) be something new and different. It is not. The game is a poor mixture of Dark Souls 3, Bloodborne and Sekiro. It's absolutely generic, as it copies infinite secondary and mini-bosses from the previous games. The game is an eternal liop in a poor open word, boring and repetitive, with no plot (contrary to what was sold, using the name of George R. R. Martin). After all that, graphics were far better on Demon Souls. Even still, the game struggles to load scenarios, hardly runs smooth on 60 fps using the performance mode and has a lot of issues. For example, I had one boss, wich was so generic I can't remind his name, being sanding still at his final 10% of life waiting for me to put him out of misery (wich was probably being a part of this game). Never seen such an overrated game. I only recomend it if you are in for some dark souls copied gameplay, wich may be fun. Don't expect more than that.
This game truly is amazing. It has lots of memorable moments, it's very original and extremely fun to explore. I'd give it a 9.5 because it kinda reuses a little bit too much enemy designs, despite already having an incredibly wide variety of them. Definitely a must play.
Let me start by saying I'm not a Soulsborne fan... I like difficult games but I can't stand being made to repeat 20+ minutes of drudgery just to get back to the boss that killed me! That's where Elden Ring makes the game so much more accessible! Not only are there sensible checkpoints in this game but thanks to the open world design, you can mostly run past difficulty spike foes and come back for them when you've levelled up. A few of my Soulsborne gripes are withstanding... You still need to grind/farm to level up and you need to rely heavily on Google/YouTube to figure out how to do stuff, so I've knocked a couple of points off for those irks.
Greatest game I have ever played. It has all the classic soulsbourne elements and then some, and the most detail ed open world of any game.
Masterpiece. I'm not sure if the Souls formula will work in an open world, but From definitely nailed it. There are secrets and bosses almost everywhere, and exploration is super rewarding. And the game gthe. More we play, the moe dense it is
This is fantastic, beautiful.. With beautiful lore, monsters, characters, npc, difficult.. Beautiful at 360°
Dark souls 4 it's the best! The games looks awesome, Playstation 5 version it's the best.
Dont usually write reviews. Never played a souls game in my life. This game is absolutely amazing. Solid 10/10. A master piece.
A masterpiece in gaming that will never be forgotten. This is generation defining.
I gave up because Sekiro was also difficult. However, after playing the Elden Ring for 6 hours, I am very satisfied. This is because, despite the extreme difficulty, it provides various alternatives by taking advantage of the open world.
Overrated, DS3 in open world. Horizon FB released the same month makes is more inpressive. Of courses totally different type of game but overall is better prepared.
I wanted to like this game as someone that platinum'd the previous titles and played through multiple times but it just misses the flow the previous games had and artificial difficulty, especially in endgame hinder any fun. Bosses are too fast spamming aoe, spam ultimate oneshot moves, tank insane amount of damage and more. Either have a slow, tanky and hard hitting enemy, a fast low health hard hitting enemy or a fast, high health but low hitting enemy, that is balanced not what elden ring does here I have beaten malekith last i played, tried malenia and am now am at a point where i lost all interest, not even planning on making a new character playthrough with a different build as i would normally do. Lazy, cheap and overtuned design, recycled music themes and bosses and more. This game falls under the same trope of being overhyped but not satisfying. Too bad that other reviewer are biased and scared of the community as of past embarrassments and falsy give this game top notch reviews despite major and obvious flaws. If you played other fromsoft titles and expect a good time, forget it until some patches come out, you wont find what you are looking for despite performance issues that might get fixed. dissapointment can't even describe what i feel on this game .
It's dark souls 3 with an open world with a lot of bugs. I don't know what these so-called reviewers are smoking but this is not a 97 masterpiece... it's an 88 at best
If you've played dark souls then you've played this game before. I don't think it does enough new to validate its own existence and the combat is not nearly deep enough to carry it for the 45+ hours required to finish it. Also, the atmospheric storytelling from BB and DS is lacking a bit in this game. I've played all the from soft games and this is a strong meh from me
I hate the style of the graphics and he dullness. Ok the bosses are cool. But that doesn't make it a game on its own.
+10 pts for the art and design. -3 pts for the mechanics being all over the board. -2 pts for terrible PC port -2 pts for bad multiplayer setup -1 pts excluding players just because they're not good at the game and you don't want to add a lower difficulty. I will say, the world building is amazing and crazy how much there is going in it. The art looks amazing and one of the best looking games I've seen. So artists for the game should feel proud. Beyond that the game just **** and people really think it's amazing only because they are so distracted by pretty graphics they ignore poorly balancing and bugs. Sadly the game when working perfect isn't even that horribly difficult. The majority of the times I've lost to a boss and I didn't dodge the wrong way or something is because they glitch out. This goes both ways to, some are to easy because of the bugs. One of the first little dungeons I went in the boss wouldn't even move no matter how many times I reset it so had to just kill it and move on without even fighting it. Today trying the first big story boss and his dragon arm grabbed me multiple times when I wasn't even by him. He picked me up but I was floating in the air over 10 feet from him and killed me. Of course the game is hard when bosses don't work right. The bosses that don't bug out are usually a challenge but most of the time I win after only a few try's at most. As far as difficulty goes, it just pisses me off when my girlfriend would love to play the game and see the world they crated and enjoy the story. But she can't because they think only elite gamers should be allowed to play it. She just isn't that good at this kind of game no matter how hard she try's and can never play the game because of that. I'm sorry, but to me that's just being a bunch of stuck up **** who think to highly of themselves. Plus, any dev launching a game on PC with that many bugs doesn't deserver any praise.
This game is nothing short of magnificent, FromSoftware’s magnum opus. It is a culmination of all the work they’ve done over the past decade, but it is so much more than just that. The world they have created is colossal, absolutely oozing with content and secrets to uncover - and what makes this experience so great is that you’re free to uncover it all in whatever way you please. There are no rules, only tidbits of information and guidance to help you along your way. This is an absolute must play, a genre defining piece of work and Miyazaki & the team at FromSoft should be immensely proud of what they have achieved here. I am simply lost in the world of Elden Ring; the feeling of wonder and discovery has a hold over me and I don’t see myself leaving anytime soon.
As a From Software fan this was as close to perfect as I could have wanted 10/10
Boring and clunky. Technical issues everywhere, terrible camera and boring exploration with no real rewards. No idea what people see in these games.
Elden ring is as fun and addicing as Bloodbourne, with the exploration and excitment of BOTW..Playstation fanbos can be as salty as they want that it cracked Horizans back, but that doesn't change the fact that this game is a ****'s the puzzle piece the Souls games were missing..Grinding is gone, replaced with adventure and exploring..
My god this site is full of garbage review bombers. This game is an amazing achievement by Fromsoft
Keeping it simple because people don’t like spoilers but I’ve never played a more completed game. Raises the bar in every way possible and no game has taken over space in my mind like this one
After years of success, which each entry into fromsoftwares legacy, Elden Ring was hyped to be the pinnacle of the Souls experience. Unfortunately, the game doesn’t live up to the hype. It feels like a step back from the progress sekiro and Bloodbourne made. The open world is bland, empty and boring. Finding reasons to continue playing the game gets more and more difficult as time goes on. It is nowhere near FromSofts best entry, arguable being their worst. It feels like open world dark souls 1. A major step back. Completely disappointing. Rampant with performance issues and bugs. I could not see myself recommending this game to anyone.
Best game I have ever played since Ocarina of Time. Simply a fantastic game, that one can get lost in for days at a time.
“Survival Odyssey”- From software have created a new genre. This is the most engaging world I have very been thrown into- and yes, you are thrown into this world. Th sense of immersion is unparalleled, I can barely sleep at night because I just want to get back into Elden ring and continue to explore. Unlike other games which aim to give you a false sense of accomplishment by offering an illusion of a challenge, this game offers you the chance to earn a sense of accomplishment. The sense of danger makes the stakes feel higher. When I defeat a boss or open a chest I am eager to see if I will get something that will help me to better survive in this place. The combat and gameplay is hands down the best.
It is not a must play unless you like Dark souls like games but if you prefer more traditional RPGs like Dragon Quest, legend of heroes trails of cold steel, or Persona avoid this like the plague. Graphically the game looks great on PS5 particularly if you like Dark gritty games. The battle system is hack and slash with dodge rolls and timed dodges. If you are bad at dodging plan to die alot. If you aren't good at games like dark souls then you probably will die quite often. It feels like a darker version of Zelda Breath of the wild mixed with Dark **** game has quite a bit of customization and you get to design character at the beginning. It is essentially a more advanced dark souls 3. If you're looking for a challenge this game has plenty maybe even enough to make you rage quit.
I am by no means a Soulsborne veteran. I mean I olayed several of the FS games but I am not a pro or someone who gets REALLY deeply into them. That being said, for a casual gamer this FS game is the nost fun and accessible. It is still challenging, but I really enjoy that if something is way too hard at the moment, you can just do something else. This way the game is far less frustrating and repetitive. Exploration is rewarding, this is the first FS game shere I really discover every nook and cranny of fhe map. One thing I still cannot get used to is the style of storytelling. Especially in the terms of very obscure story events. Talk 3 times to an NPC to unlock. A dialogue option, do things in weird soecific order, otherwise the NPC dies, etc. I am not saying it is bad, it's just not my cup of tea. But all in all it is a very solid game, I really like thay you can approach battles with different tactics. Mounted or on foot, using summons, spirits, etc. It give real variety, if something is not working, you can actually change tactics. Oh and I found no performance issues on PS5
Praise the Sun! This game is 100% amazing and has alot of graphical improvements over DS3. And the world is soooo beautiful
Best game ever. Just finished it. Don’t listen to the metacritic trolls who always review bomb games because they are bored, this game is a masterpiece like no other. It will change game like Zelda Botw.
The game is everything I have been waiting for as a soul/bourne fan. I love it.
The Lord of the Rings of Video Games Sadly, a bunch of crazy people with a lot of time and no girlfriend, who have nothing better to do, tried again to review bomb a great game without even having played it (or just being to bad lol). That’s why I made the decision to make my own rating to support one of the best games ever. This game is phenomenal. From the world creation, to music, to art design to gameplay. The lore/story is inspiring. I’m a writer myself who works on his debut (not in English) and it was truly inspiring. I always had the dream to play lord of the rings first age. This comes veeerry close to my dream scenario only with fresh lore and new paint. This game is absolute amazing and like Breath of the wild, it will change openworld games for ever. From Software is the most creative studio in the world which makes the most fun games ever. Thank god casuals are still too incompetent learning them. I dont need call of duty players in this community anyway. This game has moments where you won’t believe your eyes how beautiful it is and how unique the moments are. It’s stunning.
Masterpiece! Can't see myself playing anything else from now on. Just get it!
Fully reviewing this now after many, many hours, and all I can say is... I heartily regret not being able to give it a 10. It should be a 10, on so many levels, but I can only score it a 9. Why? Well, may as well get the only negative out of the way first - the performance is ropey. I've seen people defend it, and seen some pretending it doesn't even exist, but the brutal honest truth is that the pop in on display here is staggeringly bad and takes you out the game on a consistent basis, and the frame rate is also patchy - not as bad, not enough to make the game unplayable (at least on performance mode) but it is certainly a factor. That's the only negative. In every other respect - gameplay, world building, level design, controls, writing, literally everything - Elden Ring is an absolute masterpiece. It is, without doubt, the best open world game I've ever played, bar none. Breath of the Wild, Skyrim etc. etc. don't have a patch on it - this is a staggering achievement from the developer. I lost count of the amount of times my jaw hit the floor playing this thing, how I was constantly surprised, intrigued, thoroughly lost in its' world. It's not graphical fidelity that draws you in. Elden Ring looks wonderful, but it's because of art design. There are so many games that have wondrous ray-tracing, all the bells and whistles and yet don't look a tenth as good as this thing because it has no visual pop to it. Compare this to, say, Death Stranding - miles upon miles of photorealistic dreariness - and it's chalk and cheese. So many games have combat that is challenging through sheer cheese, or gear gating etc. Elden Ring does it by simply having outstanding combat design. This is a game you could beat without taking a hit, and speedrunners will be doing so before long, because it is brutally difficult yet completely fair. You can count the games that achieve that on one hand, yet Elden Ring makes it look simple. I'm gushing about it here, but I'm not a From Software fanboy, at all. Dark Souls II is one of my most hated games ever. I scored DS3 an 8/10. None of their previous titles break my top 20 of all time, with Bloodborne coming closest. Before now. Elden Ring breaks my personal top five, because it has taken everything good in their prior games, discarded the bad, and polished it all into a package so ludicrously good that it's actually difficult to imagine how this can be bettered. It earns the term 'masterpiece'. Astonishing. ------ (The below was my review in progress.) I'm writing this as a review in progress and will revisit the score if needed - I'm doing it now to counteract the ridiculous reviews from people who I'm 99% sure haven't even beaten Margit, the first boss yet. This is a massive game and needs more than a day or so to review, from anyone. So yes, first impressions - a flawed masterpiece. There are technical issues - the frame rate, even in performance mode, is occasionally janky, and the game is basically unplayable in 30fps quality mode. There is a fair bit of pop in too, and graphical fidelity isn't the best, but the art style is absolutely phenomenal, and that's more important. For the most part, on PS5 the frame rate holds up, and when it does the controls are tight, responsive and the difficulty as such is completely fair. The world itself is astonishingly well done, beautifully crafted with clever enemy placement and always something new to find round every corner. I'll come back in a week or two and review properly, but those scoring below 7 or 8 are well off the mark; even early on you can tell this is a top tier title, and the only real criticisms of it are a lack of accessibility due to difficulty (but not every game has to be for everyone; the developer should be free to make the game they want to make and not have to compromise authenticity) and technical hiccups.
overhyped game, pretty mediocre gameplay, not much innovation, I get the pretty graphics, and the lore isn't for everyone, but even Zelda breath of the wild was more revolutionary than this texture and DLC pack. meh
For soulsborne veterans and new players alike. This game has everything. I’m probably 50 hours in to this game and I’m guessing maybe barely halfway through? Maybe less. It’s an incredible experience. I am trying not to rush through it. This game could easily be 100 hours long, maybe more if a person wants to do every single thing. So much content! Challenging but rewarding and fun gameplay. Intriguing fromsoft story telling. Immensely customizable character building and development. Beautiful awe inspiring moments. Magnificent boss design. I honestly can’t find the words for how good this game is. I’ve played for 50 hours and I haven’t felt like any of it is tedious or boring. Went with the confessor and turned it into a paladin and now a faith/melee hybrid battle cleric type with lightning. Really fun to play and looks so cool. First time using magic and it’s been really fun having all the skills and magic spells as well as melee dueling. Love this game. Love that there’s that option in this game. I am someone who started on sekiro. I think that will always be my favorite fromsoft game, but I went onto play bloodborne and dark souls 1-3, so this game feels very familiar in the best way. I am someone who loves the soulsborne series. Love the new open world design. Very cool to go exploring and just roam around. Well done fromsoft team! Thank you!
If you want an Open World Dark Souls this is the game. It combines all off the good aspects of the Souls Series as well as tiny bits of Bloodborn and Sekiro. I would 100 % recommend it if you want a hard game. The only manco this game has for me is the laggy/bad koop part of the game
Sorry this game is overrated. Grafik, Gameplay and soundtrack? Very boring. It's only dark souls 4 with open world.
This might be the most overrated hyped game ever! Controls are outdated, player movement is sloooooow! Graphics look great in the trailers but in game it doesn't even look next gen. It is rewarding when you defeat a boss but there's no fun in it and the story is confusing. If you want a fun game with better graphics, gameplay, and story then buy Horizon Forbidden West.
Do you remember your first? Mine was Dark Souls, following its' predecessor Demon souls (Widely considered a harder game). I've thought each Souls game released since has become easier in small steps and, whether this was due to my consistent meat grinder educational sessions or the actual lowering of the difficulty of their games... I'm unsure, it left me with a desire for something that gave me that same desperate, clawing feeling that the first had given me. This game is absolutely it. It seems that some might also find it "too easy" and others "too challenging", a CONSTANT discussion to be had among fans and those who hate it alike, but I think one of the most common feelings among the fanbase is the sense of ACCOMPLISHMENT. Which comes at the end of your blade, staff, depravity, cooperation... and how ever long it take you it feels great and, I feel, exponentially more so when you are punished to perfection. I have spent the lion's share of my free time over this last week delving into Elden ring, and have not felt once like I had ENOUGH time. Always wanting for more. This game has already sparked many, among many conversations and each of them are worth their own salt, or gold, or bin stuffing, or what ever! But one of the most common topics I see elsewise, the last I'll address in this particular review, is simply: The wrong way to play. Which I VERY strongly suggest would be to not play it at all. I hope to see you out there, Tarnished. -T EDIT: I would like to add, not wanting to risk looking like a total fan boy, that there are certainly some issues. I've been playing on PS4 and have genuinely seen no performance problems. I haven't tried it on any other platform so my review reflects my experience. If I had to pick something apart it would be that there seems to be some balancing needed in how runes are distributed. Sixty seconds on your preferred search engine will yield you several results as to how to grind at ludicrous rates, some not requiring any fighting even. I think this might be more a nitpick than anything since how other people enjoy a game means very little to how I enjoy it. Now PVP.... PVP is a whole different animal... and once I figure out how to counter the maidenless sub-tarnished that shows up into my world in only tattered sack pants, surrounds themselves in an impenetrable barrier, and spams lightening bolts I can't dodge until my squealing death... I will make them pay.
This game is good but to call it the greatest game ever made is an insult to the industry, there is nothing impressive about this title, it is another GOOD souls title, re-hashed Dark Souls with an open world.
Absolutely fantastic game. The best the souls series has ever offered. To make it even better it has 100+ hours of gameplay
I fully played the game on YouTube and it was very fun. Dont have the money to buy it tho.
If you activate multiplayer features in this game you also get the invasion system which is nothing but a feast for grievers and can‘t be deactivated. Which makes it impossible to play a relaxed coop session. If you don‘t care it might be a great game.
It's open world dark souls, I have to love it. But it's even less beginner friendly than dark Souls 1-3.
The game is too hard for a casual player. It’s a shame because everything else is great, I don’t know why not giving players options… not everyone have time to grind hundreds of hours just to get good enough to beat the first boss
Other than the occasional frame drops (which are really that big of a deal), this game is an absolute gem. There's so much to do and see. The side content is just as good as the main story, nothing feels unpolished or half-baked. Classic game right here.
Fantastic. Uses the open world, but doesn’t make it boring like other publishers. It’s dark souls with a new, sometimes “B” horror like theme (fingers??!) but I don’t care at all because I love it, and they did add new things to increase depth of gameplay. They should get a refund from hiring George Martin though because his ass is a one trick pony who doesn’t finish **** he starts and this story is blah lmao. If you like souls-borne you’ll love this.
Its a world with obscene polish given its level of density, combat is visceral and satisfying, and checkpoints are plentiful. The people complaining either live in the SEA region(very valid complaint) or haven't beaten margit and want to try to make a comparison to cyberpunk to seem like its a game problem
Beat the game at about 80 hours and I'm completely blown away. I think this is the true sequel to dark souls 1. This game, ds1 and breath of the wild are the only open world games that have actually made use of the open world structure and understands what makes exploration fun. There is just amazing content after amazing content at every turn. Not for everybody but still one of the best games ever made I would say.
dodge dodge hack, dodge dodge slash, repeat until you get to a boss then it's dodge dodge dodge dodge hack slash dodge. really was expecting a bit more regarding gameplay. also the "open world" is pretty empty. boring.
This game should be called Elden Souls. if you are a fan of the souls games you will love it, if not stay away. It was marketed as NOT a souls game but a new IP. It is not. Immediately sold it to a Souls fan and he loves it. Not for everyone else. New story maybe. Game played great on my PS5, no issues with quality just that it should be titled ELDEN SOULS. 1 for Marketing
I haven't played a souls game for more than a few hours...this game is going to make me go back and play them all. Fantastic experience.
the best game yet this year and don't forget there is still 1 game on the way that I guess will be a real contender god of war Ragnarok . this year is on fire. 2022 games awards is going to be the best and I guess better than 2018
People are praising a game that does not do anything diferent than Dark Souls 1 - 3. I mean if you like Dark Souls you may like this game. I played every game from fromsoftware except Demons Souls and at the time I liked each and everyone of them. Apart from Sekiro, wich is the best gameplay that I ever experienced, the Dark Souls mechanics feels really dated nowadays and make no mistake: Elden Ring is essencially Dark Souls in a open world. This is basicaly Dark Souls 4. IF YOU LIKE DARK SOULS AND IS NOT FATIGUIED like me, YOU SHOULD BUY IT. But if you thought that after titles like Sekiro and Bloodbourne, Fromsoftware was ready to bring yet another exciting game with diferent mechanics and more over the top Boss fights, this isn't the game for you. This should have been a 5, but performance is really poor so a 3 should suffice.
I love this game! No matter what corner of the world you go to it always looks stunning and you always want to discover more.
the game has a lot of technical problems it was a hassle just to make it not crash on lunch and many haven't even been successful with that be aware before buying it for your PC
A truly masterpiece. I had no crashes or bugs in 25H playtime. The open world is fantastic at every corner you can find something.. just beautiful.
Probably the best Open World game as of yet. No useless fetch quest. No generic story and character. No stupid collectibles that are just there to drag out the playtime. No useless weapon, every weapon is unique in its own way. No handholding. Its not you typical generic open world game like AC or Horizon. Its not you typical open world game with another texture pack, it's something original.
Top notch **** of the best game ever.This is the ultimate version of Dark Souls thanks to its vast and gigantic open world.
This game is just Dark Souls 4. I've been playing for a week and there's nothing special about it. Don't fall for the hype it's just Breath of the Wild Dark soul edition. At first yeah it's fun and it's a pretty game, but it's still Playstation 4 graphics on a PS5. Not to mention the performence issues like texture pop in, frame rate dips, and worst of all it doesn't save properly. The more I play the more it feels like Dark Souls. They say you can avoid bosses but after a while you run out of optional bosses and you gotta keep fighting the main bosses which are OP in most cases. Where as the dungeon bosses are a complete joke. The power scaling in this game is unbalanced. The game just isn't that fun and I put a week in it.
If a Fromsoft game ever needed 'Patches' (sorry) it's this one haha This game should be rated higher but due to the serious technical issues on all systems it has to be a red **** now. Let me explain. Im a huge fromsoft fan and trust only them for day 1 preorders. I've platinumed all their games. Buy It really worries me that blupoint demon souls remaster can launch at 4k 60fps or near to it but elden ring can barely hit 30fps and often dips as low as 15 in sadly the areas where you need consistent performance. I bought a ps5 for improved graphics but all I get is decade old issues which on pc ive left behind with a 3080 though I've Elden ring runs worse on a 3080 than on a ps5 lol There is a whiff of cyberpunk about the game where fans are blindly supporting and conveniently ignoring the serious technical issues which also include a few progression stopping glitches / bugs and the occasional game breaking issue. And post launch the patches are not addressing these issues. It still looks and runs like a...ps3 gen era game but tlou was ps3 and that ran and looked far better so...elden ring just looks ugly. Great art design but everything else is far from the beauty of sekiro or the grandeur of bloodborne. The open world simply fails in 2022. If it was 2010 then I'm sure it be far more impressive as it has 2010 graphics. It's not remotely as good as botw or rdr2 which are games that existed before ER development even started. The latter alone is worrying but the large empty space which witcher 3 dlc would laugh at...isnt much fun to play. Yes You can explore but you'll only find Skyrim like identical copy and paste areas. Forget the wildlife of most open world games or npcs with compelling stories. The George Martin element is inexplicably non existent making the game effectively a dark souls 4. The latter isn't a bad thing but it's not as good as ds3 in visuals / performance or gameplay so where does this leave us? The game isn't suitable for noobs or non fromsoft fans. It's a game seemingly more for fan boys, compromised journalists and shills to scream "goty!" while they wait for gameplay saving 'Patches' (sorry ;). It's not a bad game by any means but it has bad aspects to it or lazy maybe. Bloodborne launched in a rough state so this is nothing new but it's still not acceptable. Wait for a sale a year from now when it's been fully patched. Eventually maybe 7-8 /10 but a 4/10 !t launch due to poor technical state :(
Best Fromsoft game so far and the best open world game I have ever played. I still like the gameplay of bloodborne a bit more than elden ring's but the world and the story is much more engaging.
Great gram! The graphics are outstanding. Incredible story, and world building. The atmosphere, and game play are also outstanding. The game is very hard, and difficulty settings cannot be changed. This is definitely a game one should try next-gen systems.
Overhyped and overhyped again and again. This game is not interesting in the slightest. What a shame.
I’ve got platinum for every Souls game , including both remakes (Dark Souls and Demons Souls) and Dark Souls 2 twice , for ps3 and Scholar of the first Sin for PS4 …… plus BB and Sekiro … and this will be my most proud achievement in gaming , when I do finally platinum it. If that doesn’t say something.
This is a rare exception **** that actually meets the hype, (looking at you cyberpunk 2077, bf2042). I will very surprised if this does not get game of the year. Its sad to see people giving it 0/10 because they do not offer and English version in SEA. If you love the unforgiving world of dark souls this is a must.
After listening to all the hype about Elden Ring, the legendary G.R.R.Martin was involved in the story and this game is likely to be the best RPG open world game ever, I thought I would give Elden Ring a go. I booted up the game and was instantly impressed with the character creation so was excited to get stuck in. Now, I have never played a FromSoftware game and I am aware that their games are very hard so I kept that in mind when I died the first few times and accepted my fate. However after hours upon hours of dying, my excitement soon faded. I was getting pretty sick of getting instantly destroyed and was not enjoying myself at all. I decided to read some guides and endless 'GiT gUd ScRuB' comments for some guidance. Souls veterans were saying that the enjoyment comes from finally defeating a tough enemy that has previously been killing you with ease. Yet when I finally managed to defeat the challenging foe, I felt more annoyed with myself that I hadn't killed it sooner and was angry that I had let a game annoy me so much. As I moved on following my victory, I was then able to relive this ordeal and experience the same emotions when I fought my next, harder, nemesis. This revolving door of death, death, small victory and death plunged me in state of anxiety and stress which made me feel legitimately nervous whilst playing this game, eagerly awaiting any enjoyment. To add to the stress are the other game mechanics. There is no quest log so I struggled to keep track of what I was doing, who I have spoken to or where I was meant to be going. Some souls veterans advise new players to use a diary/notebook when playing a FromSoftware game to keep track of quests... Something that could be achieved by having a quest log built into the game. Secondly, the controls often feel pretty sluggish/janky. For example in the heat of (losing yet another) battle, when trying to change my weapon from one-handed to two-handed to deal more damage or mount my steed to make a hasty getaway only to accidentally use some useless item in my pouch has proved to be fatal several times. Also in the same frantic panic, I tried to pause the game to get a bit of respite and check my inventory. As I tried to navigate to complicated pause menu, I quickly learned to my horror that this game does not pause and continues to run which inevitably proved to be fatal. When I finally managed to traverse through the poorly constructed inventory and equipment menu, I found my summons which I had unlocked earlier. I slotted them into my pouch and ventured forth, only to find out that the summons get to pick and chose when and where they can be summoned, which of course, also proved to be fatal.. yet again. Visually, despite being far from 60fps on the PS5, Elden Ring still looks really nice in places and discovering new areas can be exciting. However this excitement was soon replaced by the familiar anxiety and stress of being permanently close to death. Trying to take in a new view was often cut short by a new type of enemy one-shotting me from a mile away or some giant using me for a soft landing. I truly was excited to play this game as it has been hyped and marketed as the best RPG ever. The customisation of your character is brilliant and (although feeling empty and devoid of non-hostile NPCs/towns/markets etc) the open world does feels very explorable. BUT as I've mentioned a few times, the difficulty ruins this game for regular RPG players who are not familiar with or fans of Souls-Borne games. Personally, my free time has become limited due to life taking it's course and I play games to enjoy what spare time I have left. I do not find being held hostage in a constant state of anxiety, stress and annoyance until I pay the ransom of endless trial and error an enjoyable experience. Because of this I have since returned my copy of Elden Ring so I can spend my refunded money on something that will not waste my time.
Most epic Dark Souls ever! Ignore those bad ratings, it's all the same whimpering mob it's always been... they can't take challenges, can't take failure, disappointments, being lost or other "unjoyments" and mock around about everything they can find, just to ignore the most important part: THEY ****! ;) This is the greatest adventure with REAL emotions I've ever played so far. It's gigantic and you will find the best of Dark Souls, Demon Souls, Bloodborne AND an living open world combined. If you seek out a true adventure, with all it's ups and downs you'll love it. If you wanna indulge your lack of perseverance or just be a constant loosing winner, go play Assassin's Creed, Far Cry or anything alike. You will NOT earn a place at the table of Soul-Seekers.....
From Soft have taken the best bits of their previous games, the variety of Dark Souls environments, the more aggressive combat system of blood bourne and the stealth and traversal systems of Sekiro. Dumped them into a open world you cant not want to explore and added some new mechanics, such as horse combat, ashes of war and spirit summons. The result, (if you're a fan of the gruelling nature of the games) is a opus magnum, a game that will be referred to in years, not months, to come. Some New players will undoubtedly overwhelmed by the mass of unexplained menu **** took me 15 minutes to realise I had the ability to summon my steed and then had to work out how to equip the ability. My best advice to newbies is to realise the biggest attribute to level up isn't your strength or Intelligence of your avatar, rather than level up the actual players patience level.. If you're not patient, the game will destroy you...Enjoy :)
they promise to add your language and then without any warning they pull it off with no explanation and don't even apologize for it, some unreal **** attitude and PR
One of the best games ever made, from software are on fire yet again, the open world is amazing there's so much to see and do, it's hard and challenging but fair and with all the builds you can create this game will be played for years to come. Simply a masterpiece.
A buggy mess that is extremely overhyped because of childish fanboys. The souls community is probably the most toxic gaming community and they will worship any souls game as long as it is hard and repetitive. To them the quality of the game is irrelevant. This game runs on a very old engine, overall it looks worse than dark souls 3, it runs best on ps5 compared to all other systems but there are still many issues in ps5, the frame stutter issue is extremely problematic for a game like this where good latency and smooth frame rates are essential in order to dodge attacks and act quickly, the game was visually downgraded after launch and none of the patches have fixed the major problems.
The absolute pinnacle of FromSoftware and their games. It incorporates the best aspects of each of their previous games and provides different and extremely interesting and entertaining bosses and NPCs as well! Highly recommended
In all honesty it's more of the less the same souls stuff just in a big open world. It's good but it doesn't innovate the series. From all the reviews and playing it myself. I just don't really get what the fuss was about. Don't get me wrong it's a good game but it's definitely not a masterpiece. Same Combat you expected from a souls game. They need to in ovate by adding new animations and moves you can chain to make combos. Open world aspect is good for souls game. I love it but It personally doesn't offer a wow factor because the world is kinda lifeless outside of the NPCs, the classes are awesome, customization is always nice despite the armor being the way majority of the time lmfao. Difficulty is good for new comers this time around. That's about it I don't really talk about the lore because that's not the forefront for these style of games kinda got to roam around the world to find it. Classes are pretty awesome.
Unironically the game of the decade. It's x10 bigger than the previous Souls games in terms of weapon variety, spell variety, enemy variety, boss variety and sheer size of levels. Even if you only count the dungeons and castles, the game is still far bigger.
The best open world game I've ever played. It has exceeded all of my expectations.
I’ve never played any of the souls games in my life, so this is my first experience on a From Software game. I have been having the most fun I’ve had on play station in a while, I am finally hyped to be playing a beautiful open world game with so many different things to come across and explore, a masterpiece ****. Btw anyone that rated this game one star is because they don’t have enough patience or skill to learn how the game works, once you just enjoy the freedom and learn the mechanics of the game you will be indulged in excitement.
It’s my first souls game and the level of freedom really helped me get into it. There is so much to see and do, and I can’t really remember when was feeling excited all day to get back home and play some more. A wonderful new experience.
Towards the end game the game gets less fun and more frustrating as leveling gets harder as enemies and bosses 1 shot you despite your rune level and armor making it more frustrating than fun when exploring towards the middle of the game. It losses the game loop as you find more things that don't go towards your playstyle. You also can't summon less of you need help and grinding becomes mandatory. Also you start getting repeat bosses only they have more health and do more damage causing bosses fatigue. An explorer mode needs to be added for those that like exploring lore rather than being forced to deal with repeat bosses already defeated
Overhyped, empty mess ****. It is not fun in any traditional or post-modern sense of the word.
After putting around 60 hours into this I can honestly say this is the most fun I've had in a game for a very long time! Absolutely love this game!!
I have about 50 hours into the game so far and I’m about halfway through. And I’ve missed a LOT of content. I went into this game with unreasonably high expectations and they’ve been met or exceeded across the board. This game is so insanely massive while also rewarding you the more you look, so the world feels far from empty. 9/10 if you see something and think “I wonder if that leads somewhere/does something” it does and it will. Combat, like all fromsoft, titles is fantastic. When you combine ashes of war with the new crafting system or countless spells/items you have a lot of opportunity to create really unique combinations. While bosses can feel unfair the first time you fight them they NEVER are, they’re balanced perfectly so when you defeat them you actually feel like you’ve accomplished something. Also, you can just go and do any dungeon or explore completely (ridiculously large) optional places to build xp and make any fight easier. The world design is fantastic. The map gives you clues as to the direction to go in order to get to an important boss or follow the main path but other than that you are left on your own to find the way. And god how refreshing it is to not have your hand held every single step of the way and to actually just figure it out for yourself. I’ve seen users complaining about performance issues but I haven’t had any so far, no crashes or obvious frame drops (PS5). I’ve also seen users complaining about graphics which I really don’t understand because it has great graphics, just not “next-gen”. But, for me, artistic design will always have more impact than graphical fidelity. I don’t want to talk much about the story yet as I’m still putting all of it together and I don’t want to spoil anything but I’ll just conclude this by saying this: this is my favorite video game ever, and I feel like I’ve barely scratched the surface.
Elden Ring requires you to explore before continuing on with the main story. You cannot play Elden Ring without exploring the world it has set up. For example, Margit the Fell requires you to explore and learn the combat system and gain experience by fighting the mini bosses and you use that experience to fight the main boss (Margit) using everything you learned fighting the mini bosses. The game is an easy 10/10. It is honestly one of the best games one can play. I have never played a souls game before but after playing Elden Ring, I am sure that I gonna give other souls games a try.
Good game and my first soulslike game so I think I’ll start playing more of those after playing this.
Absolutely amazing game. The open world souls game starts here. Immersive and memorable giant open world. I had a rough start but I remained patient and willing to learn the mechanics and am still mastering my character and his style of destroying enemies. This is a game that will be remembered 30 years from now and be regarded as one of the best games of all time.
good better than other games. I love this game. It's masterpeice. Game of the decades.
This game is brilliant and disappointing at the same time, I feel like a lot of these problems is the symptom of being a open world game. I won't go into technical issues as those could be fixed later on and I want to review the actual game instead of how it looks. Most bosses are amazing and fun to fight while others are some of the worst I have ever seen and I'm surprised they made it into the final game. The early boss fights to me seem higher quality and less gimicky/unfair than the later ones and I found fighting them going from fun to incredibly tedious and boring. The dungeon design is incredibly frustrating with the way forward being chosen a random it seems, I think this was done to encourage exploration but it just leads to multiple times you run loops around a dungeon while getting very confused it makes me thankful for past souls games level design (mostly). I would say this overall is the worst dungeon design in any modern FromSoft game. A lot of the enemy placement in dungeons feels very spiteful as well, It gets tedious where there is a ambush every corridor or a instant kill trap you would not know is there until you died from it. Random enemies normally don't give enough rewards to fight them leading to me just simply running past because I don't feel they are worth my time. I think this is due to the fact there are soo many enemies to fill up the world so they can't give that many rewards to balance the game. Enemies also get reused a lot in the later areas leading to them feeling bland and lazy, including bosses. Like once you fought one dragon or Erdtree avatar you've fought them all. The map did make me want to explore with landmarks but I often found myself saying "That was it" or "That's disappointing" the map looks more interesting than it actually is to me because I was always getting gear or weapons I will never use. The level differences between areas is extreme where one minute your fine next you do next to no damage and get 1 shotted by everything, I think they should of had a gradient as you went further into areas where enemies got stronger the deeper you went instead of a line where a dog from one side is as weak as a pug and the other as strong as a wolf on steroids. Fighting bosses you can often tell if your underleveled for them since their health goes up a ton leading to a test run of a boss and realising "Oh I guess I'm too low level". The bosses are doable at lower levels but incredibly tedious to fight since they take ages since the health bosses have is very generous and one mistake and you get one shotted, but also this works in the other way where bosses you missed feel way too easy and die in seconds. This often makes bosses feel like they are stat checkers. Getting gear is a mixed bag, The builds you can do are amazing and I like the choice but getting that build is another story. You either have to get lucky with what you find or look up a guide since they are so spread out often leading to you feeling really weak cause you don't have anything decent or synergises well. Ashes of war are a good addition and spice up the gameplay is unique ways. Spirit summons are a good feature as well to help out those who need a little extra help. However having as many upgrades as they do for weapons is a little ridiculous and not enough resources drop to give the player much freedom to upgrade loads of weapons to test them out. Sorry for the rant but I love the game just like the other souls games but I am not one to sit back and not admit any of it's mistakes because this game makes many mistakes, and ones not learned from past souls games as well.
The English language is the most perfect linguistic system ever devised by man, and yet no words exist within it that could possibly do this game justice.
Best video game i've ever played. It reminds me of the joy and wonder I experienced playing Zelda 64 for the first time as a kid.
Bloodborne is one my favourite game of all time, and I after playing Elden Ring for 55 hours, I can't even describe how beautiful this game is, it has tons of contents. My only take is the graphics whicj is" ok " but other than that. I'm really loving it n_n
Fromsoftware have learned and improved with every game they’ve released since Demon’s Souls. And they show it masterfully in this game. The best game they have ever released. Who knows what their next project will be but one thing is certain, it won’t disappoint. That being said, if you’re not familiar with their work. This title is perhaps their most approachable. Provided you come at it with some patience and won’t rush to some online forum to cry when you keep dying because you refuse to learn what the game is trying to teach you.
The world is dark and everything wants to kill you. You will die a lot, you will be lost almost constantly but you won’t care because that’s the point. Those that have rated it poorly should sell their gaming devices and take up embroidery cos clearly gamings not your thing
This game is absolutely incredible! I can’t recall the last time I enjoyed a game so much.
Best open world game since RDR2. The world is immersive, the graphics are impressive. Nearly every corner of each area has a mystery to find. The game doesn't hold your hand. It vaguely tells you where to go next. There are clues spread around the map randomly about interesting places. Exploration is nearly always worthwhile. As for the "soulsborne" aspect, combat is solid and more forgiving then in past titles. I love being able to refill flasks from certain mobs or clearing out packs of mobs. Co-op is the easiest it has been in a From Soft title ever. My only real negative and it isn't huge is the lack of haptic usage for the PS5 Dual Sense controller. Sure it vibrates, but really want to use the controller to it's fullest. Hopefully a patch will fix that.
PLEASE STOP ALL THIS DIVISION! Both this and Horizon FW are incredible games and we are lucky to have them both to play! Masterpieces in their own right. Enjoy them play both like me just stop fighting and review bombing one another its petty and shameful. Anyway well done Fromsoft its a pleasure to play so fun. I just hope you fix the bad framerate and poor texture quality soon so it can loolnas good as it feels becauze Horizon does look alot better atm
I had high hopes for Elden Ring but it surpassed my expectations. This game is incredible. I think it will be game of the year, and if it is not I cannot wait to see what beats it. The game manages to be both innovative and true to its roots. Where it departs from the Dark Souls mold, it does so brilliantly, and it retains the best from the Soulsborne franchise. It is a shame and an injustice that people are giving this game 9 out of 10 over minor launch issues that will almost certainly be addressed in short order.
Currently 50 hours in and have only done two of the major bosses. It's the typical feeling from fromsoftware games, that is, oh, whats over there? Only this time it's alot bigger and open. The lore continues to pull you in, being deeper the more you decide to look into it. I thought bloodborne was always going to be favourite of the games. But elden ring really is stapling itself in my head
Game is getting review bombed, coincidentally by people who can't beat the first boss lmao. Game is at least a 9/10
Best game ever made. The user score should reflect this. Let’s get up to the 90s guys.
FromSoftware has refined all the mechanics from their past games to make Elden Ring the Ultimate Soulsborne game!
One of the best game i've played in my entire gamer life. From Software masterpiece
Complete souls experience Perfect open world Beautiful& diverse gameplay Just what I need from a game
I am keeping it slow as I already played 30 hours in Limgrave. Interesting ideas in every corner. I love how I need to keep in mind all the places where there could be something interesting. I am playing the game blind which is the ultimate way to play a game (at least the first playthrough) in my opinion. Amazing game!
Elden Ring is a masterpiece of an open world action-rpg! Up there with other open world juggernauts like Zelda or Skyrim,... with Souls DNA
I’ve spent 40+ hours in game so far and Elden Ring is honestly incredible in every sense. The world is beautiful, stories it tells are compelling, personally I have nothing but praise for the game. However, Elden Ring clearly isn’t a game for everyone. If you liked the Dark Souls trilogy you’re likely to enjoy this. If you’re going to compare it to RuneScape and complain that it isn’t exactly like RuneScape, you probably will not like it. After going through and reading some of the most positive and negative reviews out there, here’s my breakdown of who is reviewing this game: 0-3: Just salty, plain and simple. Isn’t good at the game and feels is sad and bitter. 4-7: Just not a souls player, have objective critiques but not the target audience for this game. 8-10: Souls veterans, there was no way they’d hate have ever hated game. End of the day everyone doesn’t have to love every game. Saying Elden Ring is “the new Skyrim” I think is attracting an audience who thinks it is an entirely different game than it is. Elden Ring is hard, plain and simple. If you’re going to be salty about that go back to RuneScape.
Love Dark Souls and any soulslike game, Elden Ring is like all of them at once. Definitely recommend to play.
Ignore the review bombs being thrown around here. This game is really something special and is a once in a lifetime type of game. That statement is not hyperbole. This game is a stone cold masterpiece and for some reviewers to claim that the developers were lazy in crafting it is absolutely absurd. The story, map, characters, enemies, and bosses have all been masterfully designed to provide an unmatched experience of adventuring through a hostile fantasy land. I am playing on an Xbox Series S and the game looks fantastic and has not had any performance issues whatsoever. I am very picky about what games I occupy my time with and the more I play this, the mote I realize this may be to date, the greatest video game of all time.
Dark Souls + Breath of The Wild = Elden Ring. If that sounds like fun to you, then you'll love this game. There's too much good in here for the bad to bring this game to a solid 8. I'd give this game an 8.8 if I could. The Bad: Occasional frame drops in prioritize graphics mode (I only noticed two in 60 hours of gameplay so far so I changed to prioritize frame rate and haven't had an issue since). One of the most detailed character creators to date, however Dark souls type graphics limit what it could be. Multiplayer needs to be updated with some quality fixes. There are occasionally cheap deaths like rooms filled to the brim with hidden enemies. My big gripe is commands in combat should NOT stack especially in a game where a split second decision can mean life or death. It's annoying when the player character does a command you wanted to do 3 seconds ago which is a lot of time in a boss fight. Lastly, I'm reading that a-lot of the enemies are taken from other Souls games and thrown into this one, but i've only played DS1 and Sekiro so it hasn't been a noticeable issue for me. However, these are all nitpicks in what has been an otherwise fantastic experience. The Good: The world is massive, beautiful, and there is so much content that I'm only 16% completed 60 hours in. Enemy variety is unbelievable; No game I've played has even come close to having this many types of enemies. The bosses are tough but (mostly) fair. The game heavily rewards players who explore with better weapons, armor, mechanics and obviously extra levels. If you think you can just run through the main story without exploring you'll get destroyed. Weapon variety is outstanding. There are so many different ways to fight especially with the ashes of war system, which will lead to lots of replay value. Elden Ring is subjectively the easiest FromSoftware game to date (though some players think it's impossible), however the combat is still very challenging and will keep you on your toes any time you venture to a new area. The lore building is fantastic and interesting. There's a sense of wonder that I haven't felt since Skyrim. While the non hostile npcs are few and far between each one is unique and feel important to the games themes and story. Especially since you can summon these npcs in pivotal boss fights. The game makes me want to explore every little thing and I normally skip a lot of side content but the side content in this game almost feels like part of the main story. For players having trouble, if you get stuck on a boss for over an hour that is your queue to leave go out, explore, find better items and level up. Some players review bombing this game don't seem to grasp this concept. I'm not a great souls player and only played DS1 and Sekiro but I beat Margit on my 4th try and Godrick on my 1st. Use summon signs to help you I really don't understand why so many people are rage quitting the game and then crying online "game bad too hard" because of these bosses. You don't even have to be good you can just over level if you have to which is very easy to do if you go out of your way to explore the world. Sure it takes time, but this is a massive game it's meant to take a while to finish. At the very least look at a guide on how to build your character to your strengths it only takes one google search. Also, PC reviewers need to stop review bombing the PS5 version. We get it, the PC port has lots of issues. I can't say the same for PS5. Overall this game has been superb. It's not a 10/10 masterpiece like the critics say, but it's very very good . 8.8/10
First FromSoftware game I play. Very well done, one of the most immersive experiences I had. It's hard? It is, but you get it at some point. The narrative, options, world, all feel very real and with my 12 hours of gameplay, there is a LOT to do yet.
Was fun at the start when everything seemed more balanced and all builds were doable. But as you get late in the game you're forced to use certain elements and playstyles. Magic isn't nearly as good as in the other souls games. Game has dozens of spells but only a few are good to use the entire game. Co-op is a joke. Both the host and spirit people have their damage and vials reduced by half. Game doesn't give any reason to do co-op other than to play with friends. Game is a lot about exoring and learning to mark on the map where to come back layer to due to being a lower level than what the game expects in areas. I explored and killed all bosses I found and got to the final boss. This game is a joke compared to other souls games.
There is little to no story in this game. The world feels dead as there are hardly any friendly NPCs and every NPC exists to kill you for no reason. Hardly any A.I. Nothing new in this game. You would have thought if George R. R. Martin put his name on it, you would have seen something new and innovative. Nope, guess not.
Lol, the User Score Wars continue. "If I feel disappointed in any way then it's a 0/0 score!" Look, this is absolutely a 10/10 game *if you like Souls games*. Yes it's only a moderate upgrade to DS3 graphics and the gameplay is very similar to previous FromSoftware Souls games but what did users expect it to be? Of course that's what it is. All the gameplay footage and teasers showed exactly that. Why would all these users giving it a 0 or 3 think it was supposed to be something that it has never claimed to be? Again, if you like previous Souls games, this is a fantastic entry. It has all the mechanics explored in DS, Bloodborne and Sekiro thrown into a fun and addictive open world platform. If you disliked those games, you'll dislike this one. If you're simply giving it a 0 score because it was "overhyped" then you weren't paying even a little attention to its development. If you expected "Skyrim" gameplay or "Horizon" graphics then you know nothing about FromSoftware. It's a great game for Souls fans exactly in the way all the previous Souls entries have been great.
The game is wonderful. I have about 60 hours put into it and I am still finding little secrets scattered all over. If you don't like a hard game or having to look for your lore its not for you. The world seems empty at first but once you play Elden Ring instead of just trying to beat it, you see the beauty. Praise the Sun.
Dont let these incels who review bomb fool you, this is the best game of all time.
Absolute masterpiece, i cant think of a single open world game that comes close to the scale of this game. The gameplay mechanics are so good, the voice acting, the story and the aesthetic of the game are perfect. This game is the only game that i would give a 10/10 and i can say without a doubt it is my favourite game of all time.
This game provides the wonder, amazement and excitement that a child feels when they first play a good game. I am a veteran of gaming but this has far exceeded any expectations. A towering achievement ****.
Copy-Paste, Boring and repetitive gameplay, old graphics and pop in everywhere.
This game is made for only a specific demographic and no one else. It doesn't have enough "living" in the open world to feel alive, the bosses and enemies are really the part where it shines. It's not as good as Sekiro by far. The plot is lackluster, it seems like they wanted to push the BOTW + Dark Souls angle but the problem with BOTW is that the story suffers for the wondering, explorative world and it was 'okay' that the world felt empty. It feel like a single player MMO experience and you are all alone. I do not feel the game deserves the 10/10. A 10/10 game means that people who are not just dark souls players could enjoy it. I half enjoyed it, half got bored of the empty world. I was so hyped and it has nothing to do with the mechanics, it's just not what I thought it was going to bed. I think it got a perfect 10/10 because people want to relive dark souls. If you wanna relive Dark Souls + BOTW type stuff? This is your jam! If you want more than beautiful scenary and dark souls, go someplace else.
This is a game that will be remembered for ages to come a benchmark for open world Games and definitely goty for 2022 also just here to laugh at these normies Or casuals who couldn't beat one boss and gave this game a 0 lol
This game is amazing! I’ve been playing it for about 50hrs now and I’ve barely delved into everything the game has to offer. The open world (and the steed) are huge game changers. I love exploring this new and vast world filled with mysteries and surprises. This is definitely my favorites Souls game so far. I appreciate the fact that I can creat my own path and decide what to do first as well as which bosses to take on. Everyone will have a unique experience playing this game. And yes, it is very difficult. That’s FromSoft for you.
Absolutely dynamic gameplay and graphics! Gonna have a hard time playing other games after this one.
An absolute masterpiece, aggregated all previous souls games while adding innovative elements, including but not limited to the imaginative storyline, character build, and challenging gameplay. Totally addicted to it!
This is the greatest thing I ever have, and ever will experience. My entire family left me, I was fired from my job and I owe thousands to the bank as I'm I debt. None of that matters for I have the luxury of enjoying this masterpiece ****
This is one of the best games of all time. Masterpiece. Thank you From Software.
Gorgeous, imposing, dangerous and full of adventure. Everything I love about video games in one package with awesome tonal background music that amps the mood, tight combat and so so so much to do. Best action RPG of the past 2 decades at least. Absolutely a must play. Be aware: You must have grit to get through the game, it's part of the experience. Triumph and be rewarded.
If you are a souls veteran, this is a must play. This game recipe is the best anyone has to offer and until someone comes up with a better game recipe, this game will dominate. And now, back to the game.....
For all those saying this is a ds3 clone, that is completely false. There has been vast improvements in balancing, with all strategies being viable and effective. An example of this is guard counters. In past games, even when using great shields, you would have to dodge roll to create openings to attack, as there was no way to counter large enemies after blocking an attack. This made blocking Almost useless against larger bosses and enemies, as dodging was almost always more effective. This has been completely solved in elden ring. Performing a heavy attack after blocking an enemy strike activates a guard counter. This attack deals massive damage, as well as having a chance to break your opponents guard for a critical hit. This gives defensive players who prefer to block attacks rather than dodge a very effective way to deal damage. There are many other ways that this game expands on the souls formula (such as bow jump attacks, mounted combat, and more) but this is the best example. Elden ring has the best open world I have ever experienced. It's vibrant and full of life, with many hidden secrets and npcs to discover. The dungeons are great ways to reward exploration. With unique rewards varying from helpful spirit summons to special weapons, I always feel incenavized to explore every nook and cranny of the beautiful open world. While the graphics aren't groundbreaking, the art direction certainly is. The environments are stunning, and the enemy design is grotesque and amazing. I found myself enjoying how the world looks in elden ring much more than horizon (of which many people are comparing elden ring to) simply because of the art design and uniqeness of the landscape. This game is everything I wanted it to be and more, with improved souls combat, a vast and secret packed open world as well as amazing enemies and bosses.
I'm 60 hours in, on the final boss, and I can honestly say this is the best game I've ever played. I'm not sure what everyone else is talking about in these low review scores. It's like we are playing a completely different game. I'm playing the PS5 version on PS5 and have had no problems with dipping frames or any graphical errors at all. The visuals are absolutely stunning. I've found myself just stopped and staring at the gorgeous surroundings more than a handful of times. The bosses are difficult, but it never feels unfair. The story is the easiest-to-follow story of any FromSoft game. There are many NPC sidequests to do that make the world feel fleshed out and lived in. There are completely optional areas that make you engage with the world and figure out a way to get there and when you finally figure it out, you feel super accomplished and the game often awards your curiosity with a boss or a rare item. I haven't had this much fun with a game in a long time. Don't listen to all these low reviews of people who haven't even gotten past the first area yet. Elden Ring is a must-buy for everyone.
I've just finished this game on the PS5. Just like all FS games, this one is ruthless, it will be challenging to long time players and challenging to newcomers. Don't fret, though, please, this game presents you different ways to play, some easier than others and it can be like a puzzle sometimes to decide how to continue, with so many options and enemies that have different weaknesses, you might just need to find what works for the one you having difficulties. Bosses aren't unfair, seriously, they are very predictable, the animations linger long enough to make it clear what will happen, and, again, like a puzzle you just need to discover the correct way to solve it, where to dodge, when to attack, all those are very important, and it is fine to take your time to explore the solutions until you find your own. Most FS games aren't extremely linear, to begin with, but path choices were very conservative, so you could find yourself not able to continue in any avenue, but Elden Ring is open from the very early beginning, allowing you to explore many avenues to explore, you want to go to more difficult parts of the game and try getting loot to help you succeed in the early game? Sure, that's just fine! With so much great content, there will be other stuff to do at any point in the game, so if you are stuck, you can just try it a bit later, with a new weapon. DS3 allowed you to relocate your skills (I sincerely don't remember that about the other FS games), but it was, sincerely, not in the best way possible, forcing you to spend hard to come by items (only a very small amount in the game, earned through PvP), which made it hard to change classes, for fear of not having enough to go back if necessary, however on Elden Ring they help you on you trying different approaches, giving a lot of items used for relocation. Through my playthrough, I was many different things, mage, samurai, Guts and that helped me defeat bosses I was having difficulties with, and it is great to change stuff around, try new things, I enjoyed that. The graphics are great, it's not an FFVII remake, or Guardians of the Galaxy, but, sincerely, it is way bigger with much, much more content, a huge amount of weapons, armour, animations for attacks, bosses, enemies, I mean, it is crazy all this game has, and also, in my opinion, stuff is way more intricate, everywhere you look has something interesting or different worth of your attention, I think that it is fair for games with different scopes and focuses to have different graphics qualities. That said, the graphics are not bad at all, they are a huge step from DS 3, not even close really, bosses I just died while admiring them. The art design went above and beyond, there isn't a single place not telling a story through the architecture or current state of chaos/destruction. The small grass is kinda meh, but I particularly don't care for details that wouldn't add much to the kind of game Elden Ring is. In my experience on the PS5 stutters can happen. However they are usually as soon as a huge open area is loaded, and then they stop, it never occurred to me in any of the dungeons, caves, forts, etc, I never died to any enemy thanks to it, it never lingered long enough for me to get to combat while it happened. That kind of stuff doesn't bother me, it is just while the game loads. That was only my experience on the PS5 though. About the open world, in my first two hours or so I did think it was empty and had nothing to do. However, it was because I hadn't grasped yet the type of open-world it is. In BOTW you go to a high place and scan the surroundings to find new places to explore, in a lot of open-world games you climb something and then the map is revealed to you. Elden Ring is not like that, you need to be attentive, look out for caves and mines, you have to open the map and mark the places you suspect could be interesting, you need to talk to NPCs and try to find where they are leading you, things aren't hidden, but they aren't glaring and out of place, they exist on that world, and they feel like a part of the world, and you have to search for them. When you open your mind to the open-world style of Elden Ring, you understand how fantastic it is to go exploring, and that is innovative. The horse is not only for exploration, it adds a whole new depth to combat, where every weapon has different attacks and combos that are better for different types of enemies. So it was an amazing addition that is also innovative. The story is there, and it is very deep. You go to a town and there are mad people and mad rats on a church with the scroll teaching an incantation that makes others mad. This one is easy to put together, but the whole game is like that, and it is the opposite of lazy, it is fantastic and genius. Try to understand the lore, it will surprise you. Do play Elden Ring.
Absolute masterpiece. I’ve played each and every Fromsoftware game since Demon’s Souls ever since I broke through the difficultly barrier and it all finally clicked with Bloodborne. It turned into a massive addiction. I have since played all of them over and over again. I have essentially exclusively played Fromsoftware games since 2015. I’ll continue to do the same. This game is incredible. It is the pinnacle of souls. This makes the prior six games look like trials. They took every great piece of every game they made it put it into one. It doesn’t just feel like Dark Souls III or Sekiro. It feels like Elden Ring. Congratulations Fromsoftware. You have created an absolute masterpiece that continues to subvert my expectations with each passing day I have with this game. I never want it to end. Fromsoftware fan or not, give this a try. It might not be for you but if it is; it is truly something special. I will be playing this for years. Don’t mind the negative reviews from people who don’t have the patience for the difficulty and/or have the unrealistic expectation for a massive triple A game to run flawlessly on day one. That just doesn’t happen. Frankly, it runs beautifully for the scope and scale we are dealing with. It will obviously be patched up in the future. Whatever technical issues I may have noticed didn’t once take away from the grand experience I was having.
Awful Rip-off of RuneScape, the game isn't even that hard but I can't be the first boss due to poor controls.They really try be darksouls but fail horribly.
Exactly what it is supposed to be. Insane open world. Punishing but fair gameplay. Great character design. DEEEEEPPPP in every sense of the word. Just an incredible accomplishment.
Just an awful game. No story, ps 3 style graphics. Enemies use cheap spam techniques. I wish I could return this game but bought it on digital
This game is very hard, I feel that those who made this work are suffering from sadism, the game may want to make something like GOD4, but it's not a good game at all and has no balance. It's a pity to spend money to buy this game.
This is the fourth dimension of Dark Souls 3, exceeded the previous titles in every way, a huge open world filled with activities and rewards, new travel system and respawning near boss fights, this game will not disappoint souls fans and will be a new entry to newcomers. Highly recommended.
I encourage you to please, ignore the negative review bombing on this game. You’ll notice most negative reviewers will have elden ring at 0, but the rest of their reviews are very high, and alot of them have rated Horizon very high, I’m assuming for ratings sake. This game is absolutely phenomenal, I’m over 50 hours in and there’s still more to explore! Of course be aware that this IS a soulsbourne game, so it’s gonna be challenging. If you don’t like a challenge, this isn’t for you, but other than this is my new go to game recommendation!
Amazing game! Can get lost in its world for a very long time, don't get me wrong, it's probably one of the hardest games I have ever played but so rewarding.
If your planning on buying elden ring and playing in between working, family, and having a social life, this is not the game for you. Unless you have endless amount of time to roam around the game and slowly but surely level your character up then this game is certainly for you! As a person who can’t and won’t spend countless hours on a video game, I find this game specifically to be increasingly harder then any of the other dark souls or any other games related to dark souls. I enjoy the mantra of feeling extremely accomplished once you defeat a hard Enemy, but this game takes it to a new level. For anyone who has not played or completed any of the dark souls games, this game will basically be unbeatable. Honestly I cant seem to understand where the 10/10 ratings came from, the graphics are sub-par and the character ability vs enemy ability is just so out of proportion. For a game that i was so unbelievably excited for, this game has ultimately let me down. I expected a sever challenge and was ready for anything this game had to offer, but after a week of being stuck in the same spot with no way to effectively progress through this spot has ultimately turned me away from this game. I congratulate and praise anyone who is skilled enough to be able to surge through the game with minimal pushback from enemies, but it seems me and MANY others do possess the skill or time needed to trek through this game effectively. In no way shape or form do I want the game to change, or have an easy mode or anything like that, i just wish there were ways to use all weapons given to you regardless of arcane level and such. The game needs to be more diversified and give you a fighting chance to be diverse in your attacks towards different enemies. A slow heavy fighter can do a lot of damage, and vise versa, but versus someone who is extremely fast with more health and more damage that you, it’s basically the same result every time. “You Died” over and over again.
Best FromSoftware game to date! Elden Ring consumes my every waking thought right now. Soulsbourne fans will see it for the masterpiece it is. It is still a FromSoftware game though, so if you don't like Dark Souls or Bloodbourne you probably won't like this one either. If you've never played a FromSoft game, this is a pretty good place to start.
Best game I've ever played, as simple as that. If you like videogames, it's a must buy.
This game is overrated and I don't think so it should be something like game of the year 2022 on PS5 (maybe only in specific genre). I was so excited to play this game even if I´m not soul player but after few hours... I was wondering, am I playing the game that was so presented by media via amazing game trailers and in game footage?? The story looks really lazy and it´s not something what is giving powerful impulse to keep going. The game throw you inside the world just with basic information or without some further story which would give some more explanation what you doing here or who you are... Or maybe I missed something. The next issue is the figures you meet in this game, they miss some big charisma or individual emotions, just walking puppets. Talking about enemies and its AI is so simple like just ordinary scripting of easy-hard fighting modes and nothing more, walking dead bodies. Absence of some kind of life (living persons) makes you feel that you are walking thru the valley of doomed in one of circles belong to hell. This is just about slashing of monsters, soldiers and other freaks on each corner. I can´t avoid a feeling in my self of repetitive action after some time. Like walking thru damn hell which makes you feel more and more bored and bothered in some moments. I have to use one citation: „dying 9000 times against a one million HP bosses all the time isn't fun…“. About fighting and physics of your avatar, ough, the mechanics together with reaction times should be much more improved bcs it really s*cks in some moments (especially at fights). To the next, I think that most of players would welcome an option to choose difficulty level. One more thing, where is some dual-sense effect within PS5? I didn´t notice anything of the character during game play. Graphic aspect of this game looks nicely done but not something of next-gen proportions or something what should blow out my mind. In overall, it´s very good made and looks nice but it´s nothing what brings some new aspects within innovations. I think many things are taken (copied) from other games of same character and retransferred to this game. Example is the placing of messages during game play by other players, this is exactly the thing which has already been brought by Kojima into Death Stranding. I have to admit this is not a game for everyone, you can love it or hate it, nothing between. I much more enjoy game play of Ghost of Tsushima than something like that. I don´t understand the rating of popular magazines, maybe good payed by other side... This game has big potential be a game of games 2022 but this stood in some half way of idea to bring it on this level…
Brilliant pacing that encourages exploration and provides more choices to sink your time into.
This is as close to a perfect video game we may ever get. Every second of my journey was uniquely challenging and jaw-droppingly beautiful. Combat and core gameplay has been massively improved from previous souls games. Yuka kitamura strikes gold yet again with the stunningly grandiose OST. Bosses are better than they have ever been, the environments are hugely open while still feeling very deliberate. This work of art will undoubtedly be remembered as one of the greatest video games of all time. 10 out of 10.
Definitively the best video game ever made, not my opinion. This game is being review bombed bc YALL **** **** AT IT!!! And it’s not doing much. In the wise words of Dr. Umar, whether you like it or don’t like it there’s nothing you can do about it BECAUSE ITS NUMBER ONE!!!
Amazing game that is challenging but rewarding. Very cool builds to come with the awesome weapons and armour.
Everything we ever wanted from a Fromsoftware game, challenging but rewarding difficulty, not for the heart fainted. Definitely a masterpiece, GOTY and a milestone for open world games.
Best game since Skyrim the world is massive. The enemies are terrific. I highly recommend it everyone should play this game. It is hard but it's satisfying
I've been playing for 70 hours, but I haven't finished yet, but I can already say that this is the best game I've ever played!
Eh... its okay. If you like Souls games it's amazing... if you don't play Souls games you'll struggle. For me the game play loop isn't great... explore, die, repeat. Ugh. I will say it is far more approachable for me this time vs other Souls games... but I still find it rather tedious and boring. It's certainly not a 97. But hey...
One of the best games ive ever played. Its a bit overwhelming in the begining but once you get going its amazing.
Elden Ring is phenomenal. While maybe not being the most innovative life changing experience some critics would have you believe. Despite all the technical flaws I believe it stands above and From Software have delivered a master piece. While I do feel it may be too early to post my opinion, I’ve spent 40 hours in the game with no end in sight, I felt the need to post in support as review bombers run rampant. Is this game for everybody? No it’s not. Is this one of the best souls experiences of all time? Personally yes, I believe From Soft has only gotten better with each entry, sekiro being my favorite all around. In reality this is just dark souls 4 but as anyone who was looking forward to this can tell you, that’s exactly what we wanted. If you want a game that doesn’t hold your hand and doesn’t stop you every 5 minutes to remind you of your goals or where to go, and a game that has a satisfying loop of explore, battle, loot, level. This is the game for you. With an open world that so far is unfathomably large detailed and interesting and some of the most interesting enemy and boss encounters in the series. With a ton more freedom to how to build a character. This is easily an all time classic soulsborne experience. The last thing I’ll say is a lot of people complain about the lack of quest logs, mini map, and general map markers, but the game does actually do a very good job of guiding you and keeping you on track. I am the kind of person who gets fatigued by seeing all the incomplete quests and areas I still have to explore, and Elden Ring simply allows you to wander and get lost without asking you to stop and collect 1/500 something’s for a reward. I only have maybe 1/3 or less of the map uncovered with 40 hours in and I have yet to not be surprised around every corner.
Elden Ring is an absolute breath of fresh air in gaming. It perfectly captures the magic of early Zelda games where you just wanted to explore the map to find things you haven't found. The gamr is massive on a scale that feels absurd the more you get into it, but it is presented in such a way that it never feels overwhelming. This game is a masterpiece.
This is more broader and better version of Darksouls. This time From Software nailed it.
The most fun I've had since Skyrim! Finally a game that is deserving of a 10/10 rating
The best horror fantasy game ever made! I'm truly impressed with how far the From Software team made ins this game... Script, gameplay, visuals... 10/10
Masterpice, all best from fromsoftware. Play this game is truly the best experience.
They managed to take everything about the previous games and turn them into a beautiful masterpiece.
A absolute masterpiece, if you are new to fromsoftware games i would highly suggest you start with Dark souls 1/3 instead of leaving a negative review becuase you are too impatient to learn that you cant always win first time
Overhyped. Same cryptic story telling from past games, same combat, same everything. Its open world dark souls. When reviewers said it was a masterpiece I thought it was in relation to games like rdr2 and gta v but its only a masterpiece souls fans.
Bland and empty. You basically run around in a mostly empty world looking for encounters. It’s the same as any old souls game, non innovative. If you like souls games, this is basically DLC for a previous entry. There is little to no difference Remember, anytime you see 10/10s like this is clearly either bandwagoning or paid reviews. This game is not remotely innovative, and thus cannot earn a perfect score by default. Even for souls players it’s just more of the same Cannot possible exceed mediocre rating. I’m a void, if it was the first ever souls game and breaking a mould, perhaps, but after entry, what?. 5? It’s just more of the same. People critique Farcry for being samey then vomit praise over this clone
The game is fun, no doubt. The boss battles are exhilarating and there is a good variety of enemy types- each with their own distinct feel. There is an underlying story somewhere, but it is told in fragmented/disjointed parts that only the most ardent fans will actually care enough to explore. The graphics are terrible. The animations are terrible. And the game is glitchy and poorly optimized. It feels like an early PS4 release title and does not have anywhere NEAR the style or the polish as other "next gen" games. With so many other great options, this is unfortunately a big miss on FromSoftware's part. Poorly told story, unpolished game, with fun gameplay (not necessarily good, just fun) 6.5/10
Is this the ring to rule them all? The game of the decade, the best game ever? The best Soulsbourne game from FromSoftware? That’s for fans of this type of game to decide. Are the graphics last gen? As a generational cross-platform title they are fine and the visual design is breath taking. Is it easier than previous games from the developer? Having tried a couple of previous games I’d agree that it is more ‘accessible’. I spent many hours roaming around the huge map – as long as I didn’t engage in combat (exploring, not lost! lol). I’m sure with enough (and constant) grinding and learning the mechanics and routines of enemies I could progress – maybe even finish the game. But having spent several increasingly boring hours ‘farming’ the same spot I’ve decided that it’s not for me and I’d guess some other gamers having been persuaded by the very pro reviews will be disappointed. Others will love the pain and eventual gain. The PS5 version is buggy. The game has been compared to Skyrim, however, apart from a fantasy setting the only other, significant, aspect it shares with it, is the distracting pop-in and other bugs that SR had on launch. Overall, ER reminded me not of SR but, in some elements, Dragons Dogma (which I enjoyed) - with a huge dollop of Farming Simulator 22 (lol). ER has a world and intriguing lore I know I would love to further explore, but not at the price of dodging the same rock for 5 hours to level up to beat some grunts. Perfect for FromSoftware fans new and old – who may see it as (their) 'the best best game ever'. Everyone else should take the hype and promise of accessibility with a pinch of salt.
Love it, i am a fan of the Dark Souls series and this is Dark Souls in perfection!
I really enjoyed the game until I closed the game and when I opened it again the next day, I was lvl 38 down from lvl 54 and from the 43 hours of gameplay back to 25. So lost progress on beating 3 bosses 2 night mini bosses and lots of time from my life. Of course because of the game build you cant try to get back any save file between the two time frames. If you played similar titles you know this is just simply unacceptable.
I mean , I don't think Open World works well for Souls games and it doesn't look that good either. I wish they could just stick with a more linear world like they used to do. Hence I cannot give a high score . 6 is a decent. Would have given more if it was like the predecessors.
It's the best open world I've ever seen. So pretty, dense, full of interesting things. The variety of combat options adds a lot to the rewards. The art and level designs are unmatched for a open world game yet.
maaaan they really outdone themselves withs this game, everything about it just leaves me speechless, Masterpiece.
this game is truly mind boggling in scope. the artistic direction and world structure is genial. at every corner i feel the need to stop the game and just marvel at the scenery. Truly feels like a dream experiencing this masterpiece ****. Thank you fromsoft, for making two of my favorite games ever made. Bloodborne and now Elden Ring.
Just can't stop playing this masterpiece. Fascinating wold , characters and gameplay all came together with miazaki and George Martin cooperation and this is the result.
This game is amazing. Performance has been improved since playing. But the actual game is so good.
Masterpiece! Best game in the world Open world is full of interesting stuff. Please buy this; support this company,
FOR ALL YOU HATERS!! THE GAME WILL DEFINITELY BE GOTY AND PROBABLY GOAT SO GET READY TO GET SOME PAIN TABLET TO CURE YOU TUMMY IT'S GONNA KEEP HURTING VERY BADLY FOR A LONG WHILE Stop saying that the game as no story or it's too hard. The story and lore is there, you need to understand and unfold the story. FromSofware is famous for challenging game so stop complaining or stop trying if you don't like difficult games. This game is for people who's sick of open world with ? ! and crap like that on open world maps. If you don't get it keep playing call of of duty and assassin creed ( I did like Odyssey)where they dumbly take you by the end and explain you what to do.
One of the best experiences I have had in a long while. I am so happy with this game on basically all levels.
This is the best open world game I ever played. There is so muh richness in the art design and so much to discover Game is hard. Know this. Also dont believe the 0/10 reviews. Theyre just fake review bombers that either are mad for minor pc stutters or just the typical casual normie who cant take a hard game that doesnt massage his ego.
I'm a big fan of FromSoft games so my opinion is little biased but i think everybody can agree that when a game that has as much hype as this one and it doesn't end up as a disaster like a certain(ehem...Cyberpunk) everybody is happy. Yes it has some flaws like any other game but it more than makes up for them by how good the rest is. Negatives: _bosses are repeated in dungeons quite often(but they are 100% optional so no big deal). _A lot enemies can be found in all regions, but all open world games have this(botw has bokoblins everywhere. _The pc port is pretty bad, this is just an L nothing i can say about that but i have the ps5 version and i only had a framedrop after 43 hours of playing. _Horseback battles are not the best (they're still very awkward). _Keeping up with character quests is a headache, a good headache but a headache none the less. Positives: _Insane boss veriety(i think there's like 80 unique bosses). _The most beutiful(not the best looking graphically) i have ever seen. _ Absolutely enormous build options, weapon types, sorceries, incatations, jump attacks, charged attacks, parries, powerstancing(dual weilding) and finally horseback battle. _Amazing story telling/story line(if you are curious enough) _An easy mode for more casual players in the form of spirit summons, coop, npc summons and OP weapons. _spectacular main story bosses. _Many plot twists. _Unparalleled sense of scale. _Great diversity in areas. _Top tier music(as expected of Yuka Kitamura) _Chalenging for those looking for a chalenge. _Jumping (Praise the jumping). _The amazing FromSoft level design. It's not a game for a lot of people but for those who like these games or those who want to give it a shot, it's something special.
One of the best games ive ever played. Yes i am a From Software fanboy, but the game does everything right. The urge to explore is massive in here. The graphic looks beautiful, some framedrops but after two patches it runs near perfect. The difficulty is perfect balanced and the open world is full of adventures. The Buildings and different areas look so well designed ive gotten a plenty of chills. 10/10 goty must Play
The best game we could ever expect from this insanely talented studio. The mix of the best aspects of the previous games adorned with the best art direction.
The open world game I've been waiting for so long, something that was lost since Gothic. Works great on PS5, pop in was there the first few days but is fixed now.
This game is the best game ever made by a mile - try it and learn it before giving up because you die once or twice
This is a true masterpiece. Probably the best action adventure game I have ever played. The open world exploration is like BOTW but with proper dungeons and a much better combat and enemy design that FromSoftware is known for. But beware some people will find the game difficult because it doesn't handhold you. There are no quest markers you only have grace guidance to give you a pathway that you can travel. That's really all the help you are gonna get. The rest is up to you
It’s funny to see people who clearly haven’t played anything more challenging than mainstream bait titles zelda botw, ghost of tsushima, assassin’s creed and whatnot, complain about a game that has a 10+ year long history of having the same solid mechanics set in stone. They don’t realize that the difficulty of these games comes from THEM being a **** player because they were seasoned with the titles stated above, titles that reward you for being a **** player. They are not used to challenges. They want quest markers, dungeon markers, npc markers on the map. They want a difficulty setting. They don’t get what “roleplaying” means in these games. You’re not playing as some killing machine that can crush every single enemy as if they were tin cans, you’re playing as a person who seeks to be that strong one day, and you DO become that strong come late game. I hate that this game became a mountain of hype. Sorry but, the souls series doesn’t deserve this treatment. I don’t know why they decided to open it up to the general, more stupid audience. If this game had the same fanbase DS3 had at its release, I guarantee you it would’ve had a fan review score of 98-99. This game is literally the closest game we’ve had to perfect in its respective genre. Sorry for the long comment, I just felt like they didn’t do justice to this masterpiece of a video game franchise.
This game is a very powerful experience. The exploration **** you in. I personally feel that the difficulty is lower than in normal souls game. Not because the bosses area easier (they are not so far), but because you can explore so much of the world, get stronger and get back to bosses you struggle with. As an open world game, this is the best i have ever played. I am not sure if it is the best soulsbourne game, but the quality here is undeniable. Playing on PC with controller.
This is the ultimate version of Dark Souls thanks to its vast and gigantic open world.
Let’s just get one thing out of the way. This game is not revolutionary, nor propels the open world genre forward. I don’t think it’s worth a 10 rating but it’s a pretty amazing game. Reviews are after all just opinions made by humans. Now with that out of the way. People review bombing the game while nothing new should really stop. Do you think this game is truly awful? Have you ever actually played an awful and broken game? Apparently not if you think this deserves a 0-4 etc Do I think the game has some issues? Yes particularly when it comes to performance. Honestly the game would get a 10 rating if FromSoftware innovated more, or changed up their formula by adding more variety to their games. The game at its core is still fighting and traps. Where are the inventive puzzles to break the monotony? Gave us a jump button but really didn’t make much use for it besides combat. Honestly I think they are afraid to change up the formula because their last game Sekiro, which was amazing sold less than DS3 and the Dark Souls fanatics are apparently addicted to the same thing. Also to add on to the performance issues the fact that this game has pop-in, and frame rate issues on PS5 or any other version is embarrassing to say the least. The game isn’t pushing any graphical boundaries and is devoid of shadows in tons of areas particularly indoors. Watching a bat flap it’s wings in the distance looking like a stuttering mess is a sight to behold. If I didn’t like the game I would score it lower on these factors.
Here we have it, the perfect game. It's like a love letter to the souls games only that they took everything that was good about them and improved it further. Lots of content that are well made and thought through. Interesting characters and so on. Unlike most other open world games this is actually packed with interesting areas with lots of bosses, dungeons, loot and more. Most other big open world games have vast areas that are boring and filled with dull enemies and a couple of trees. Elden ring surely improves on this entire genre and has probably ruined other games in it. This has taken my number 1 spot of favourite games of all time. those who rated this poorly are just mad that their favourite game got nothing on this. So you can either play Elden Ring and enjoy exploring or go and play something with boring areas. Up to you really.
It's open world Dark Souls 3 if you like it you'll like it horse riding feels clunky and even your character animations are the same it's the game where they just put together what people liked and is it me or the graphics are almost the same as Dark Souls 3 which was released in 2016
Miyazakis' masterpiece. Great for newcomers to fromsofts unique video games. An absolute masterclass and masterpiece in video gaming. Destined to become one of the greatest games of all time.
The best open world game I've ever played. Truly the magnum opus of what Hidetaka Miyazaki has been doing for over a decade. Praise the sun!
'ELDEN RING' is '2022 GAME OF THE YEAR Most awarded game'. so well made Brutal yet beautiful and cold The map of the game is huge and detailed, and the action and combat are the best among all games.
It's clear as hell that this game is a pure meta designed product from the bought reviews to the bought youtubers. It's basically a mash of all the assets and monsters of Dark souls 1-3, Bloodborne and Sekiro, packed up in a meta open world design that absolutely makes no sense for the designed difficulty. You never know if you are losing to a boss because you didn't explore enough or he was just easy because of that. All invasions are fked up, pvp is basically dead and even if not it's most of the time just 2 hit OP arts or magic. While you have 900 bosses it's basically like 30 that repeat itself again and again, as fire, ice, toxic, double bosses or all of that. All the dungeons almost look the same and quickly make no sense to explore since you are very limited in upgrade material. The game also runs like a dog FPS wise and eats inputs. The boss design is extremely flawed since you either get hit by a gimmick instant mechanic that has no visual feedback or you die to an one hit. Bosses onehit or twohit me all the time with over 60 Vigor and Heavy Armor, let that sink. Bosses regardless who never gave me a satisfaction for killing them like Sekiro did. Overall this game is not very outstanding in it's design and could quite honestly be a gigantic fanmade mod.
Im going to be honest, I was skeptic at first after I heard Elden Ring was going open world. The magic in soulsborne games to me is how FROM guides the players without holding their hands with their linearity. I was worried they’d take a step back from the level design and world building approach we all have been so accustom to. I’m pleased to say I was wrong. The open world is a breath of fresh air and beast of its own. Over the 60+ hours I’ve put into the game so far I’ve had nothing but good times and whenever I put down my controller I immediately want to pick it back up again. It’s intoxicating and anxiety inducing all at once. The vistas, the swamps, the crumbled castles, the dungeons, the lighting and the atmosphere and more is jaw dropping. The world feels alive. The open world fatigue has been a problem for many years now but FROM has managed to take something familiar and make it unfamiliar. They have superseded my expectations in every way possible. Is Elden Ring a perfect game, no. But it’s one of the best open world games ever made if not the best
Best game i’ve played in my life! The amount of things to discover, explore and fight is breathtaking. The mix of Soulslike and Open World fits too well, im currently at 40 hours of gameplay and there is so much more to explore. For the people complaining about the lore and quests, probaly never played a souls game before. 10/10 GOAT
I could argue this being the best game ever made, and I would do it with the research and passion of a presidential debate... I never, ever, thought it possible to have THIS complete **** experience. When I say complete? I mean in the way of FromSoftware making a game that can satisfy every gaming itch you could have, and ones that you didn't even KNOW you have. You want a game with a story and rich lore? This is it. You want a game with fantastic customization options? Its here. You want a huge open world that rewards exploration in every way? That is the best element of this game easily. You want a game that's an ode to the trial-and-error Nintendo era without it being cheap? Look no further. This game is not only the culmination of FromSoftware previous titles; It's a love letter to the entire history of gaming. They've achieved a level of momentum that I haven't seen since SquareSoft in the 90's. This studio knows what they are doing and they are masters of their craft, even as 3rd party developers. As a matter of fact, just give them all the "Game of the Year" awards right now because I am certain that no other game will get even close, not even the new God of War or any other triple-A title coming out this year. It is a complete gaming experience that can NOT be missed by anyone that's passionate about gaming culture. FromSoft has set a standard and I can assure you that all of the greatest development studios are studying this game. You could put this game in the Library of Congress now, it's THAT good.
Such an amazing game. I dont look at short term issues like fps but as a whole. Its flawless.
In 2022 and After demon suols, this game is terrible in fps, not accettable..79€ omg.
So either there are a lot of trolls or a lot of people who started the game died a couple times and then came here to leave a 0. This game is fantastic and this is coming from someone who has only completed one FromSoft game with it being Sekiro. I have played the other games and own most of them. And anyone saying that these games don't innovate have zero idea what their talking about. The reason this game works so well is because it is using and fine-tuning everything that came before it. Someone on here says, "All you do is spam L1 and R1". Yeah good luck breaking enemy guards without using shield parries, jump attacks , charge attacks, and your special abilities. "The world is boring" You must not have left the main menu. This is the most natural and varied world design of any open world game. Period. You can't go five minutes in any direction without running into something of interest, whether that be an enemy, hidden area or even just an amazing view. Sure the engine they use is dated and needs some serious updating. But they used their art direction to it's fullest and the game looks gorgeous for how old the engine is. The game has bigs and stutters but nothing I have seen on my Base PS4 that leads me to feel it can't be fixed with a patch or two. The music, character and monster design, the world flow and design. All of it is top notch. And then you have the different builds and abilities you use that give each character numerous ways to play. They also changed how progression works. Before if a boss was too hard you were pretty much stuck until you could get past them. Now if someone is kicking your teeth in, just leave. Yup. Go adventure. Find other things to do. Find new gear and spells. Come back when you're more prepared. That takes a massive load of of any new players because the fun isn't just put on hold until you can beat this boss. You can go have fun elsewhere. So yeah, as someone who was very skeptical if they would like this game let me say that this is a game that needs to be experienced and don't let some troll tell you otherwise.
There have been a lot of negative reviews from people for whom this is their first FromSoft title who clearly did not know what they were getting into. Do not listen to them. They did not take the time to learn the game and its many systems and just bashed it for not being just another Jiminy **** open world that holds your hand every step of the way like the stuff Ubisoft puts out. Elden Ring is the exact opposite of that. It may not be the largest open world, but it is DENSE. You cannot go more than 5 minutes without stumbling upon some old ruins, a random dungeon, a hidden secret, a roaming boss, or some other interesting encounter. It's genuinely insane how much stuff they were able to pack into the game with so few repeats. And this gets even more insane inside the big legacy dungeons, which are so sprawling and labyrinthine you could spend hours alone in each one. Every single weapon looks great and feels good to use, and with the ability to change their damage types, attribute scaling, and special abilities using Ashes of War, the depth of character customization has never been higher. These skills are also a lot more varied than they were in previous games, ranging from classics like stomp and spin attack to ranged elemental projectiles to duplicating certain spells to **** in all nearby enemies with the power of gravity. Combat has been improved in many other ways too. Guard breaks now give use to your heavy attacks, jump attacks now have an actual input, and guard counters are some of the most satisfying attacks to land in the entire game. Additionally, the best feature from Dark Souls 2, powerstancing, has returned with a vengeance, and it is glorious. Spells received a similar increase in variety, with a wide array of interesting effects from a spray of chaotic firey bolts that builds a negative status effect on the user to a telekinetic flurry of thrown rocks to transforming into a tiny moon and launching yourself at an enemy. Additionally, many quick-casting spells can be cast much faster after using another action, such as rolling, attacking, or casting another similar spell, while others can be charged to deal even more damage. The only two legitimate problems the game has are the inclusion of Easy Anticheat and the rather poor optimization on PC. At time of writing, I don't know if they've fixed that, but I run the game at medium settings on a PC that barely meets the minimum requirements, and I can play it just fine. The game will occasionally freeze for a couple seconds, but I've never had it crash (though someone I was cooping with at one point did crash once), and occasionally large chunks of the screen will change to a solid color (usually either magenta or cyan) for a single frame, but these performance issues are rather rare and become less frequent the longer my session. As for Easy Anticheat, it's probably the worst anticheat on the market today. While I applaud them for attempting to solve the hacking problem, Easy is hilariously bad at what it does and basically only serves to make it more difficult for players to mod the game in fun ways like the Remastest and Nightfall mods for Dark Souls 1. Overall, even with its performance issues, this is still easily the best game FromSoft has put out and a shoe-in for game of the year, possibly even game of the decade. Hell, it even briefly held the title of second highest-rated game of all time on Metacritic, and still holds #11 at time of writing.
One of the best games ever created l… The art, the lore, the music, the smooth combat system, the very dangerous open world, and the feeling of being humbled. Huge dark souls player and I have to say from software in the future will have a very hard time making a game better than Elden Ring. Elden ring to from software is like Skyrim is to Bethesda, a **** masterpiece.
Everything I was hoping for. Souls veterans will feel like they're coming home. Especially if they come from ds3. Newcomers might be daunted by the genre as its gameplay pattern doesn't fit the typical rpg and has a higher difficulty curve than most games. Not a game for everyone, but a perfect game for some.
Masterpiece. Miyazaki back at it again proving once again that he is a master at storytelling and making games. Words don't do this game justice.
This game is perfect, a masterful combination of every from soft game packed into one generous open world. Plenty of accessibility for newcomers while still keeping veterans in check as you progress throughout. Once in a lifetime title
This game is a heuristic nightmare for beginners and was misleading in how it's marketed. It does not feel like an open world when everything resets each time you die or use fast travel. The developer has admitted that George RR Martin didn't write the story, only the mythos. The story is poorly written, some things got lost in translation perhaps. There is an illusion of choice, but there's really only one choice that helps, you will be limited in what you can do in game if you make the wrong choice or until you go back and make the right choice. Your best weapon is Google and others have said, you will die constantly and stare at the loading screen. Defeating a boss feels more like a relief than a sense of accomplishment. I wish there had been a trial period because I never would have spent the time and money on this title. Skill is not as important as level and gear when it comes to defeating bosses, which encourages one to kill the same bosses over and over to level up, then take on the boss with higher gear. The graphics are pretty and that's worth two stars, watch this on Twitch for the best experience.
I wasted 60 bucks. Should have done more research! I was expecting them to take SOME of the souls stuff and make this sprawling rpg with an amazing story and add some new mechanics to the mix it being 2022. But holy hell. Fighting is clunky there is no sprint that i can find. if an enemy is in my face and i use a spell it goes right through them....I get that it's hard and you die a lot and its supposed to be difficult. I could look past that IF my characters animations weren't ps3 era garbage. Why is that when the bosses look amazing? The graphics are awful. Horizon deserves game of the year not this re-wrapped piece of half assed trash. Could have just written a book and put some of the cool artwork in there instead.
Elden Ring is just fantastic, the story the bosses everything a totally different and exciting experience
Really disappointed. Bought the digital edition from the PSN store Korea and turns out, the game doesn't support English language in the menus or subtitles. All the menus and options are in Chinese, so it is pretty unplayable to me. I asked the PSN customer support for a refund because of the issue and mentioned that they can check that I have 0 hours played in the game. They denied the refund stating that "the game has been downloaded so refund is not possible". Well of course the game has been downloaded, that's how I came to know that it does not support English!! Really terrible on part of the Bandai Namco and even worse on part of Sony to not admit the problem and grant a refund.
Put over 20 hours into this game where I would normally finish a lot of games and I feel like I've barely scratched the surface. I'm not sure about the PC port as From often has issues there but on the PS5 it is fantastic and I have not had a single issue it has been smooth as butter. Most of the negative reviews are from people who probably shouldn't be playing a game like this anyways and will whine about the difficulty or a few PC gamers with legit issues which are getting patched anyways. With all the buggy trash that has come out recently complaining about this game after Cyberpunk etc. feel like blasphemy to be honest. If you don't like soulsborne the game may not be for you I'm not going to lie its tough but not impossible. I don't get the people comparing this to Horizon totally different games like apples and oranges I guess they came out in the same release window (shrugs). From Software is the only game dev I honestly have faith in anymore and since they delivered after so many recently overhyped games crapped out I just have to applaud what they have done.
amazing game 2022 best year fromsofrwares game very good game must have year
Best game I've ever played. Some very minor frustrations but with a game as large as this for the vast majority to be this good is amazing. 11/10 game of the year for sure
Elden ring is a phenomenal addition to the dark souls/soulsbourne series. i want to first preface with the fact that this game has nailed the fundamentals, beautiful art smart and smooth game-play and solid ai. There are some issues for console users at the moment but i don't think that should destroy the release review given just how great the rest of the game is. Elden ring is a truly open ended and beautiful world with more stunning variety and play-style choice than any other Soulslike the universal difficulty system works perfectly i have found myself bashing my head against the wall of a difficult boss only to go around it and find dungeons and side bosses and items and then i return to that boss and kick its ass. the world is designed to teach you, if you are capable of listening and learning this game will hone your skill into combat supremacy without you even realizing until after you triumph. The world itself is also lore and story rich with exploration being reward with pieces of story, visage and character development. this game will be as good as you want it to be if you enter expecting freedom and fun you will receive that if you enter expecting combat and triumph against adversity that you will find as you improve. Elden ring is a staple of player freedom and capability, thank you from software.
This game is so addictive! Everything is so well done is this game. It’s not for everyone but it certainly worked really well for me!
Elden Ring is a great game with a lot of flaws. Great combat and exploration are marred by some boring areas and some bad boss fights. The game is great until you get past the Capital and into the Mountaintops of the Giants. From that point on, the game takes a serious nosedive. Areas become tedious, enemies are recycled and the game becomes riddled with artificial difficulty. With a 5-boss rush at the end, and some bosses that seem to be in the wrong game, they seem to have either run out of ideas or run out of time. While a 96 is definitely way too high of a score for this game, Elden Ring is one of FromSoftware’s better titles and definitely not to be missed. Even with its many flaws, the game is still easily a 9/10. It’s that good. *SHADOW OF THE ERDTREE REVIEW* Shadow of the Erdtree is out and while it is massive, it suffers a lot from overly-difficult bosses and severe balancing issues. It also suffers from frame rate dips and texture pop-ins. The map is huge. The DLC is full of content. I haven’t seen a DLC this large since The Shivering Isles for The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, and this is far bigger. FromSoftware clearly put a lot of time into it. It’s a shame they didn’t give the boss fights the same love and care. At some point, we need to stop pandering to the toxic, immature “git gud” crowd and focus more on making games (and DLCs) as good as possible. Stop making things difficult for difficult’s sake. The boss fights are terrible, even after the balance patch and the fragments and ashes you find in order to level up. The bosses in this DLC are utter garbage. I’m glad people are finally calling FromSoftware out on it. We let the poor balancing and sub-par boss fights slide in Elden Ring, but this is on another level. Overall, a good DLC that suffers from tediousness and overly-difficult, poor boss fights. I was able to beat the DLC and take down every boss and every enemy type. I did it offline and used only spirit ashes; no real people. Having beaten it, I can honestly rate the DLC a 6/10 for its tediousness and overly-difficult, bad boss fights. It makes it really unenjoyable.
Absolutely phenomenal game. It's combat is far more refined than in from's previous games, its story is huge and mysterious, and its open world is vast and extremely dense. Unfortunately, many people who think that The Last Of Us: Part II's graphics were low to mid-end appear to believe that elden ring looks like its from the 2000's. Although its graphics aren't the peak of the medium right now, I find it impossible to call them bad in good faith, and even if they were, Hidetaka Miyazaki's incredible art direction would make up for it ten-fold. Additionally, many people who have obviously missed the point are arguing that the story is lack-lustre because they can't be bothered to search for it, and prefer to have their story spoon-fed to them as if they were toddlers. there is nothing wrong with this approach to story-telling, but saying that a game is bad because it does not use it is simply childish. Additionally, many negative critics are arguing about other aspects of the game in the same way. they argue that because the game doesn't have swimming, or doesn't have climbing, or doesn't have flying makes the game automatically bad, even though the map was carefully curated with these constraints in mind. by the way, if you see any reviewers saying that the game has an empty open world, or that the environmental design is all the same, or that the combat is the clunkiest out of any of the souls games, or that enemies are recycled from the other souls games, it would be a fair assumption to assume that they have not even played the game or at the very least never left the starting area, as there were people planning on review-bombing the game before it even released, mostly in order to make Horizon: Forbidden West look better, and all of these things are so obviously false that not even a child would have the misfortune of thinking of this game in any of those ways. the one aspect of the game that all of the negative reviewers are saying that is actually correct (other than the language options in other countries and whatnot) is that the performance isn't the best. sometimes the frame rate drops to 30 fps, but it really doesn't take me out of the experience at least and it's pretty hard to tell the difference in my opinion, although I have a past of not caring about frame rates much, if at all. if you are a stickler for frame rates, then I suggest you wait until a patch comes out to fix it, but otherwise I suggest you ignore the people giving the game overwhelmingly negative reviews, because this game is worth far more than every penny of its cost, and I think that almost every person deserves to play it.
On PC I've had few of the problems, from my own looking into the problems it seems the problems are only with the highest end computers not the mid range computers like mine. On the game play it feels like a more refined and expanded Dark Souls 3, so for those familiar with From Soft think better DS3 with a massive open world. For anyone not familiar with the games, this is a game that takes time and skills that you'll learn by playing, from boss moves and when to attack, roll/jump to not get hit. When playing there's always a way to avoid damage but learning how to get around it will take time. That's to say the "Get good" meme is actually the advice due to every playstyle being just as viable as each other, but ultimately Elden Ring just like the other Soulsborn games they aren't easy games that everyone will be able to just pick up, but if you have the time and patience you can get good enough to go the whole game never taking damage at level 1.
A very "If it ain't broke, don't fix it" spiritual successor, and a borderline masterpiece.
Few games have such an atmospheric structure that captivates you in the game world. The gameplay is unmatched in the gaming industry and Elden ring sets new standards again, the controls are as precise as ever. Fromsoftware has once again outdone themselves and created a revolutionary open world where exploration is truly fun. It is one of the few games that are addictive and that you just can't get enough of. I have to say though that you need to know a few things before you enter the lands between, because Fromsoftware games can be frustrating if you don't take the right approach. But once you are in the game. Then you have the fun of a lifetime and really have an experience in the gaming world that you can’t find anywhere else.
This game is massive! everything I could have dreamed of in a souls-like game. Is a masterclass game in level design, art direction, music, and exploration in a super intriguing/mysterious world. I have never been so immersed before and the exploring is so rewarding, and it is great not to see all the points of interest markers all over the map from other games. On PS5 there is some pop in and small frame stutters from time to time, but other than that the experience has been peerless.
Tough break for Horizon Forbidden West, coming out a week before Elden Ring. Both are fantastic games, but from the moment my copy of Elden Ring arrived, I haven't touched the former. Elden Ring isn't perfect, but it is easily my favorite souls-like game, with Bloodborne coming in second. I'll quickly address the review bombers: most of these 0 scores are clearly bad faith and shouldn't be entertained. On the PS5, I haven't had any performance issues in my 80 hours of gameplay, although I have seen some minor bugs like pop-in which I'm sure will be addressed with future patches. And that's that. For the positives, there are so many. Here are a few of mine that I haven't seen mentioned: 1) HORSE COMBAT. This is by far the coolest addition to the game. It's not mechanically complex, but man it's entertaining to mow down an enemy camp like a 12th century marauder on horseback. And boss battles on horseback, of which there are MANY, take on an epic and high-stakes nature I hadn't previously experienced in a souls-like game. 2) Seamless blend of linear and non-linear gameplay. Some open world games, like GTA 5 and RDR2, do this very poorly. Linear indoor sections feel like an afterthought and the on-the-rails nature of the action kills any sense of tension. In Elden Ring, linear indoor areas and non-linear outdoors areas work seamlessly together to vary up the gameplay. For instance, you're free to wander the open map and engage or not engage enemies as you see fit. But then you venture into a massive castle, or an underground city, and the game takes on the tension, suspense, and danger of previous souls-likes, with traps, ambushes, and puzzles. It's great. 3) An open world game that doesn't hold your hand. Take Horizon for example. Anytime you arrive at a new location, NPCs and points of interest are automatically marked for you on the map with a ?. Quests are listed in the quest log. This is all very convenient, but for me it takes away from the immersion. Quests become a tedious laundry list to complete. Not in Elden Ring though. No quest markers. No quest logs. The only hints you receive are organically in-game and it's up to you to remember them. Just like in REAL LIFE, right?? It's a great concept and encourages you to scour every inch of the detailed world for hidden dungeon entrances, NPCs, merchants, and bosses. As I said above, Elden Ring isn't a perfect game, but it's probably my favorite open world game, BOTW included. I hope this short review has piqued your interest! Don't let the bad faith actors dissuade you.
elden ring is simply the best videogame ever made, is as simple as that. eternally thankful to miyazaki and the from crew
I am enjoying the game to the fullest! Great RPG, amazing environment
elden ring is simply astonishing i love the graphics and the bosses also the soundtrack is fantastic and the verticality added with the jumps make the game more ejoyable and adds variety to the gameplay
Apparently the review bombing incels are at it again. Adding my review to help. This game deserves it.
These 0 rarings are ridiculous. The game is fun, challenging and has a lot of content. When you start out it will feel intimidating, and the game likes to remind you where your place is, but as you get used to the flow of the game it gets a lot easier. As for the graphics. Its not a photorealistic graphicscard stresstest where every detail down to the sweat rolling down your characters cheek is megacrisp. But does it really need that? Its a unique artstyle with a lot of soul and character to it, and it carries itself beautifully. (Performance issues aside (those will probably be fixed soon anyways)). 10/10. Best game i have played in a few years.
Really so good? I have been playing it a couple of hours and i cant say that game is so insane. Dark Souls is smaller, but consist of more interesting things. I cannot find any fun in riding horse 3/4 of gameplay
Amazing. I wasn't ready for so much Awesome together in one package. It is From Software at their best.
Amazing game with a polish and tried and true combat system, with the introduction of posture damage, guard counters, horse combat and a more diverse and interesting magic system, the combat has never felt better. The world carries that classic FromSoftware Charm, and there is never a dull moment, and unlike other open world games, exploring off the beaten path seems to always result in a worthy and interesting reward.
Such a great game and really addictive. I’m a type of guy that would get easily bored after playing a game for 10 hours and I already played this for 30 hours.
Thank you Miyazaki! You made a Masterpiece! Mesmerizing landscapes and bosses! Mechanic is awesome! I'm enjoying a lot! After some changes settings in windows 10 and motherboard, it's working very well.
I would write a more in depth review, but i'm too busy playing Elden Ring. Feels like I'm in Berserk
Just finished the game. Had my doubts in the beginning about the open world and that enemys dont scale with you. But i have to say that i love it. But it takes time to get used to it. Performance was absolutely ok for me on my PS5. No issues in boss fights just sometimes a slight lag while exploring (just a second or so). Music is great, its extremely tough even for Souls Veterans. I played every single souls game and I must say that the Elden Ring main Bosses are maybe the hardest of the whole Franchise. I love it and can recommend it to souls veterans. Newbies should maybe start with a normal Dark Souls game. I find a more linear progressions system easier for beginners.
Best game I've played in years, very addicting. Leaving 10 to negate a whiner
This was my first Souls game purchase. I have to say I am glad i did it. Great gameplay, fantastic boss fights, incredible environment. Is the game challenging, YES but it can be completed. It takes getting adjusted to combat, playing around with builds. plenty of Youtubers giving advice how to get good and gear to equip. Do not let fear stop you from playing this masterpiece. This truly is one-of-a-kind game. I'm happy i gave it a chance. You should too!
After playing Horizon forbidden west I welcome this change in open world game. The fact that your map isnt full of markers is a great change from other open world games. The lack of quest log is also refreshing. It's nice that you have to learn to play and learn how to navigate around. I've only finished bloodborne before so not really a fan of souls games but this game will propably be my favourite all time game. World is really beautiful, controls feels smooth, lore feels interesting, boss fights are fun and different. There is so much great things in this game and I hate these trolls giving 0s and 1s because they propably didn't even try the game and watched some stream or the didnt have patience to learn after tutorial area.
Very sad that some users are giving this beautiful piece of gaming history bad scores because of occasional pop in or stutters. I honestly think that most of them didn't even play the game they just wanted an easy mode but ultimately didn't get one, either that or they just want their favorite game to be rated higher. Either way, I am 43 hours into the game and I can say without a doubt that I have never had as many "ooo" and "ahhhhh" moments while playing a video game. Elden Ring is an RPG lovers Dream, a very dark dream but a wonderful one nonetheless. Combat is a step above DS3 adding different mechanics and weapons. Ashes of war allow for weapon customization ive never experienced in soulsborne game and the spells offer some of the most stunning visuals to date. The big selling point for me is the amount of exploration that can be done while traversing the lands between. Continuously setting a marker on my map to go see what awaits me at my destination only to notice something lurking in the distance or a cave that I would have missed had I not been trying to avoid the enemies in the middle of the area. My only issue with this game is the way quests are tracked, please note I am very familiar with the works of Fromsoft and their approach to quests and the usual exhaustion of dialogue to progress a characters storyline so you can speak with them again in the next area. I just feel it could have been optimized better for a game of this scale. In summary, Elden Ring will be the standard in which I hold for all RPG's moving forward and is undeniably one of the best games I have ever played. Sincerely, your average (not casual) gamer with 27 years of gaming experience.
My response to negative review bombers: Mad cuz bad. Git Gud. You wanted something but didn't get it. Boo-Hoo. FROM delivered on everything they said would be in the game. If you expected more, that's on you. They don't have to hold your hair up when you puke as well. Get over it. 12/10 would stomp out the first nine bosses easily again.
Whoever reviews this game under a 7 is what we in the "souls community" refer to as a "filthy casual" and they really just need to "get good" But seriously, i as a souls veteran i absolutley love this game. it is perfection! My job asks me why i took 3 days off work and my reply is "elden ring came out" i'm back at work and they ask me why my work is slacking and i reply "i'm thinking about playing elden ring" i'm visiting my family and they ask me where i've been and i reply "in the land between" i'm taking a massive dump and i push extra hard so i can get back to elden ring faster . my landlord is wondering why my rent is late and i reply "because i had to buy elden ring" and.... nevermind you get the point. elden ring is great!
Please refrain from coming to do review bombing, this is not just a game, it is a piece of art that reflects the dedication and love of the developers, it is a large-scale dark fantasy world that will make you stick to the screen for hours if you have enough dedication. This is not a game that takes you by the hand and tells you who you should talk to, where you have to go, what objects you should get, basically nothing, because you are the one who must be observant, pay attention to the environment, discover things for yourself, in other words, think. The graphics are the same as what was shown in the demos and previews, if the graphics were not to your liking, why did they buy the game and then come to say that they are bad? The game features some framerate issues on ps5 and other platforms, but that will be fixed over time. The graphics are very good, enough to set us in its story. The gameplay is basically the same as the previous souls, which is more than fine, with more flexible mechanics and we can even jump! The designs of the enemies are excellent, some even scary. The design of the world is the best I've seen in any video game, much better than the Witcher or Zelda, just incomparable and it's going to take your breath away. In conclusion, this game is not for everyone, most of us got more than we expected from the game and beforehand it had already been communicated that the difficulty was going to be similar to its previous games, if you do not like the graphics because it is your opinion but not the absolute truth, because most of us love them.
Im new to the souls series, nevettheless I love this game. I have not felt a feeling of inmersion that this game gave me since RDR2. The difficulty is perfect, it makes you learn your enemies moves and weaknesses in order to beat them. 10/10
Best game ever .. deserve the game of year .. many of the review are just hating or cant hold souls game .. best souls game ever
30 hours in and there is lots to like about this game. It is visually stunning and the creativity/world building is 10/10. The whole experience is not perfect though. The game play is nowhere near as enjoyable as God of War or Ghosts of Tsushima. It feels laborious - more like going to work than taking time off. It is a game built for masochists - those who love extreme challenge - both in skill and in solving puzzles. I'm not sure a casual gamer (without a guide or some Google searches) could get through this game. I can see why professional gamers and reviewers love this game, but anyone who can't commit full time will not. I am not against the difficulty (I don't agree with not having a story mode) but a creator can do as they like, it is their world. It does take away from the experience though for many, including myself. I don't want to spend an hour unable to beat a boss only to give up and go farm runes for another couple of hours so my characters level matches my ability. The feeling of success is not worth it for me. I am also dismayed at the little character customization that is available. I played the astrologer character. I would love more options for my weapons and gear, in 30 hours I've gotten two outfits that I can't make any meaningful customization too and I had to go find a mid game staff in some poisonous swamp to have any chance against bosses. Looking up astrologer outfits, the first cool one is about mid game which I'm guessing I will never see. If you like weapon and outfit choice, choose a melee character with lots of strength and endurance. I beat both God of War and Ghosts of Tsushima - in both games I felt god-like. I felt strong and able. I do not feel this way with Elden Ring. I feel stressed, and overworked. The bit of a rush I got beating Pumpkin head or Margit was not worth the time I put in to do so. The experience is worth seeing but unless you are a committed gamer, I'd suggest waiting for God of War Ragnarok. If you really want to try this game, give Bloodborne a quick try to see what playing at this type of difficulty feels like. I know for a fact that many will feel disappointment after buying this game without reading reviews. The feeling when you beat a hard boss is great, but it is also awful if it ends the game for you because you simply cannot. Great game, that is not for the casual gamer. With GoW and GoT offering story modes/difficulty options, I am disappointed that this is not offered with Elden Ring considering how much money and time was put into this game.
Finally, the true successor to Dark Souls. Elden Ring is to Dark Souls what Dark Souls was to Demon Souls. It’s a masterpiece that renders Dark Souls 2 & 3 as somewhat redundant. Don’t expect fast-paced gameplay like Bloodborne and Sekiro; while Elden Ring retains some elements from those games, it’s ultimately about taking a careful and measured approach to combat. For those who loved Dark Souls for its sense of mystery and unparalleled loot, Elden Ring is unbelievably rich and diverse. I doubt any other RPGs exist with as many unique weapons, armor sets, spells, and abilities as Elden Ring. It cranks everything up to 11 and achieves the same level of excellence as From Soft’s greatest (Dark Soul 1, Bloodborne, Sekiro).
A lot of crying going on here... GET GOOD. The game is great and people who complain about it being to hard should go back to playing animal crossing. Graphics are fine. I swear some of the people on here are smoking rocks or got one to many participation trophy's as kids.
I've been playing video games since 23 years and this is literally the best game I've ever played!
Review bombers won’t be able to keep this from being remembered as a masterpiece. I gotta jump on here to defend it against the review bombers. This is my first Soulsborne game ever. I’m roughly 40 hours into the game right now. This is not for the casual gamer at all. If you like a challenge and you like puzzle solving and don’t get frustrated easily then you will enjoy it. It honestly is the best game I’ve played in the last few years. It’s not perfect and has plenty of bugs and performance issues but the quality of gameplay and world design absolutely outshines all the bad. People can cry on here all they want but this game will go down as a masterpiece.
beyond the performance issues and bugs, this game brings almost no new elements to the formula aside from a bland and quite boring open world, and a horse. The visuals seem almost downgraded and very last gen. The combat remains clunky and simplistic. The "difficulty" is fabricated by slow animations and opponents that deal outrageous amounts of damage, the "skill" required to "git gud" is memorizing animations the enemies randomly cycle through. the game is extremely repetitive and tedious the story is almost non-existent, you have to dig and piece it together yourself which feels like a chore. playing with friends online is a nightmare. i feel like this game is average at best. all of the 10/10 scores are baffling.
This is Miyazaki's magnum opus. Without question. I went into this game with very high expectations, and the reality still managed to blow me away. I haven't played an open world game this content-rich, with this much depth, since either Skyrim or Witcher 3. The world is so vast, there's secrets around every corner. Every zone has multiple sub-zones that you don't even know are there until you stumble onto them. There's even MASSIVE subterranean zones underneath the land's between that you don't even know exist until you find them. There's no invisible walls or plot devices that block your exploration. If you see something that looks cool in the distance, you CAN go there and explore it whenever you want, as long as you can survive the trek to it. The world building at work here, thanks in large part to George R.R Martin's input, is unbelievable and EXTREMELY refreshing to see in a FromSoftware title. Elden Ring feels like a slap in the face to the current game-design dogma that is plaguing the consumer base, where developers rush out half-finished titles lacking in content, only to properly finish the game later with paid DLC. I have put over 80 hours into Elden Ring so far, and I still haven't seen the credits. Seriously, there hasn't been a game that's taken me this long to finish, thanks to how content-rich it is, in over a decade. Easily GOTY material, depending on how good GoW:Ragnarok is. One of the best gaming experiences I've ever had. If you like the souls games, you owe it to yourself to experience Elden Ring. Even if you've only dabbled a bit into them before, you owe yourself a chance to experience it.
Every red review that I have read is obviously a troll, the graphics are very flawless considering the fact that it is supposed to feel old school, this is a Dark Souls game. 9/10 people that gave this game a 0 is just butthurt that this game is too challenging, so they opt for the easy alternative, Forbidden West.
Met and exceeded all expectations! In my opinion it is truly a masterpiece and my favorite game of all time. It has an inthralling story, a beautifully designed open world filled with hidden items and locations and the coolest boss designs I've ever seen. I will definitely be playing this game for years to come.
Such a downgrade, gameplay is so slow and it makes me sick. The character is heavy. I don't like the game at all
The culmination of FromSoftware games. If you like the genre, this game will give you everything you could ever want. If you don't like the genre, it's fine. You don't have to like enjoy a thing to recognize its values
Let's break into points: 1. A boring repetitive empty giant open world. Generic and recycled bosses and enemies; 2. The same old-style FromSoftware way of telling a story: a boring puzzle that has to be solved through reading hundreds of items descriptions and cryptic conversations with stoned NPCs; 3. Clunky combat system and light-speed bosses from Tekken: rolling through infinite AoE attack combos just to land one or two strikes, repeat; 4. Few pieces of equipment and terrible drop rates. You kill a boss just to receive some useless material; 5. Very beautiful art direction, BUT terrible graphics; 6. Poor performance; 7. Different from Dark Souls, and the others, Elden Ring is mediocre at building tension. Dark Souls is a game that has you always under pressure, theres is little to no rest. You can only feel safe when you're resting at a bonfire. When you play for the first time, you never know what to expect. Enemies are strategically placed, as well as traps. And they're everywhere, all the time. Elden Ring can't do this. There are long pauses to "commune with nature", because the big empty open world is not threatening. You can see the enemies from distance, and you're never caught by surprise. The way from Ruin A to Ruin B is safe and sound... And once you approach Ruin B, you know "ok, now I'll face some challenge", at this moment, there's no tension, it was ruined by the anticipation. You always know what to expect and when; 8. Multiplayer is the same old song: dependant on consumable items and limited to smoke walls. FS could have delivered a true multiplayer, but they are too addicted to the same old colorful phantoms paradigma. Am I saying the game is not good? No, I'm not. I'm just convicted that Elden Ring is far from being the Eight World Wonder that media wants it to be. Way too far from 97 on Metacritic. In my opinion, the worst among it's siblings.
Elden Ring! What a massive game of hot stuff. The combat and the horse riding is so smooth. It’s also very very fun. It’s so amazing riding through this massive world. The world is felt with microscopic details, several dungeons, big castles and churches, elves, cliffs, mountains, plains, camps and much much more. I never get bored doing it. The graphics is also fantastic. A souls-game have never looked better. The grass and threes are living. The same as every animal and creature who exists here. The people you can meet and talk with feels as humans and the lore is filled in these characters. You’ll meet kings, wizards, knights, traders and much much more. The music and sound design in this game is also mega iconic. It fits so perfect with the boss battles, fights and the exploration. It’s a very difficult game to manage, but it feels so good when you finally learn how to take them down and manages to kill them. It’s no more than a masterpiece. 10/10
Amazing world-building. Hard af but deeply satisfying gameplay. Played 10 hours so far. Here's to 100 more.
After completing all of From Software's library I can safely say this one has instantly become my favorite. I don't usually give 10/10 but this is everything i have wanted from a game for a long time! everything Fromsoft has learnt has all accumulated in this absolute masterpiece ****!. Praise the Elden Ring!.
The game is perfect, the sense of exploration and lost is great, the feeling of danger and lonely, the mystery and the very deep combat **** is so simple and so... magical. The powerful boss and the feeling you must be stronger and stronger to make it is so excite. Thanks From software, your games is always so special and different, stay on that way. Stay close with your fans and close your ears to all others.
This game is absolutely insane. It does a fantastic job of being challenging and hard without being frustrating and anger-inducing. Every time you think you’ve discovered all of the map, or searched a dungeon, there’s always one more thing to keep you immersed into the beautifully intricate world. The soundtrack is one of the only in games i’ve played that’s made me feel a chill down my spine, and the boss themes enhance the feeling of grandness as you fight monstrosity after monstrosity. Despite its stat and inventory limitations (which isn’t a bad thing, it’s even more of an incentive to find treasure), you’re given complete freedom from the moment you step past the tutorial. There’s a main story that can be picked up and dropped at any point in the game, allowing for getting better gear or weapon upgrades, general exploration, or just taking a break to buy more supplies. Almost every aspect of this game blows me away, and i think it’s an absolute must play.
A masterpiece! It makes me so sad that many players are review-bombing such an amazing game! People were criticizing on the day of the release without even really played enough to give it a proper evaluation (and make justice to such great game). I've read all kinds of nonsense like "it doesn't have a game difficulty setting", who said it should have one? The game offers a plenty of options to make your journey easy: the horse, you can summon spirits to help you, you can summon friends, so please, no lame excuses! The game may be still challenging(gladly!) but way more accessible than any other souls games. So of you write a review, please make sure to play it for at least 10 hours. Bottom line: a masterpiece! Not a game for everyone though. But what game is?
Truly, this is the amalgamation of every mainline FS game. Combat polished and improved taking notes from Sekiros stance breaking mixed with DS3’s options for weaponry and play style. The world is beautiful and filled with secrets. I’ve logged in over 24 hours and I haven’t even hit 16% completed. Bosses are ramped up for more rage quit moments. Most fun I’ve had in years.
the only thing i love about this game it's the open world and exploration but the rest of the game **** , the mobs & the bosses **** , same frustreation of all the souls game , i don't care and i have no hype. Zelda botw is way more fun btw good game but not a game of the year 2022
Here it is, one of the best open world games of all time. Did it live up to the hype? **** yeah! positive + Absolutely massive world with enough variation + great art work + some genius enemy designs + some of the hardest and best bosses fromsoft ever made + combat is now way more in depth , r1 spamming is still possible but against tougher bosses you will need more tricks up your sleeve. + Dozens of weapons , some are absolutely incredible. + great music again + the legacy dungeons are mostly fantastic negative - i consider this as my biggest complaint: pls fromsoft if you can't come up with a new boss, DON'T re-use them or put 2 re-used bosses in 1 room. Just come up with something new or don't make them at all. - i said most legacy dungeons are good because i found raya lucaria to be disapointing, it looked awesome in the trailers but it was pretty small and did not come up with anything new. - perfomance issues I see a lot of unknowing people in the user reviews that give the game below a 7 , they clearly did not do any effort in looking features up, which is not even necessary because this game guides you enough if you read everything . But people are to lazy to read anyway . If you are reading this then bravo atleast you put some effort in reading this review :) . The only valid criticism you can give is the ones i listed and if you just don't like open world games which i understand. Ngl i hate saying this but your opinion is invalid if you come up with trash criticism like "i am five years old and i don't know what to do in this game meeeh i give this game a 0".
It's Dark Souls with an open world. That's it. It doesn't do anything differently than the other From games. It just adds an open world to it. In fact, there isn't really anything new at all. Sure names and systems are changed but they are fundamentally the same. The graphics work, Sound design, animations, and frankly just all the visuals are very subpar. This game does not look good by any means but it does have fantastic art direction which go a long way. I think Elden Ring is a solid 8. It doesn't revolutionize anything. It's just a lot of fun and worth the money.
I've been playing these games since the first Dark Souls, and this takes everything from the previous Souls/Borne games and perfects it. Plays closest to Dark Souls/Demon's Souls. If you liked either of those, you'll love this.
Too hard game! The boss fight are not balanced!!! It is good only for frustrated people.
If you dont like the game you are just another fu*********** casul, git gud
After plying around 18 hours I can say that this Is the best souls game available, the game has some performance problems but they are not affecting the gameplay at all and are minor when you play with the performance setting enabled, the graphics are not great but the art style Is beutiful, in any way this looks like a PS3 game, the graphics are a little more like DS3 which Is not bad but not great like demons souls remake, when you explore the map and dungeons you find weapons and level up making the game not as difficulty as the other souls games, I love this game as a souls fan, this is not a game for casual gamers that is why we see a lot of people complaining here.
Everyone that is ranking this low are the people that are upset there isn't a difficulty scale
This is game is a masterpiece anyway you look at it. Contender for best RPG of ALL time
Besides the old graphik and at The beginning zur performance Problems Elden Ring ist a very good Game
Don’t let the user score fool you. It’s a masterpiece! If you’ve played ds3 or bloodborne you’ll love it
the big dark souls is here, incredible game the hype was justified thank you Miyazaki
Impressive and very well designed game details. Awesome atmosphere. Very refined difficulty curve.
WARNING! Don't trust any reviews that gave the game a score under 5! A score like that is insulting to the developers who spent a lot of time creating this game. I am a huge Souls fan so my score is a bit bias. Some people mention the outdated graphics and yes the graphics aren't as good looking as the new horizon game, and there might be some pop-ins here and there, and yet this is still one of the most beautiful games I've ever played, because of the incredible art style. Other reviews mention the difficulty as being a bad part of the game, the game is mechanically difficult, this means that the enemies have complicated and fast move sets and you will die a lot, so of you don't enjoy that, I don't recommend the game. I've seen a lot of people mention that the game is empty, that is also false, the game is full of content and secrets, I have to admit that the sidequests and lore are very cryptic, this is also something that people criticized as being something bad but that is also incorrect. The game doesn't shove the story in your face rather it just roughly explains what's going on in the world whilst hiding a lot of the details under the hood. The main problem with those reviews is that they're comparing EldenRing to other open world games that are great and then say that ER is bad because it does things differently. I'll give an analogy to the absent story argument, let's say there's a sushi chef and he makes the best sushi in the world, like it's perfectly done, the rice is perfectly cooked, the fish is fresh from the market and there's a perfect amount of sauce. That would make it an objectively good sushi right? Would it then make sense to criticize the sushi for not having fries as a side dish when that was never the point of the meal? Of course not and in ER's case the fries is the story, Miyazaki never meant for EldenRing to have a storyline as the main part of the game. So if you're expecting a deep story like the Witcher3 I also don't recommend the game. However if you want to immerse yourself in an incredibly diverse and challenging world, where you can play with tons of different playstyles and if you enjoy exploration, the game is absolutely for you, of course there's much more to the game than the previously mentioned points, but those are things you'll find out for yourself !
This is one of the worst games I have ever played in my entire life. Drastically outdated graphics Ridiculous frame rate drops and pop in Unresponsive controls that simply don’t work Do not believe the hype this is a very bad game
A culmination of all things From has done throughout the series. This is the true realization of what Dark Souls was leading to.
I love Soulslike games, but my expectations for Elden Ring were low from the start. Souls and Open World, does it work? Well, unfortunately not for me. What I like about Soulslikes is the intense combat, the danger that can lurk around every corner. In Elden Ring we can already see the opponents from afar, we can easily walk around them and even if they see us, we can flee in a flash with our mount. Only in the dungeons there is a bit of atmosphere, unfortunately they are designed quite repetitive and mostly have bosses that are not worth remembering. The open world itself is pretty boring in my opinion, there's a lot of idleness. Sure, you might say now, just ignore the optional areas. But that's not really possible, because every now and then there are more or less useful rewards waiting for you. So like any other Ubisoft game, it often feels like work here too. I scour the entire open world, putting in several hours to MAYBE find a better weapon, armor, or spell. Most of the time, however, it were items that didn't fit my build at all, which only made the disappointment even greater. I don't even want to start with crafting. Collect plants and hunt animals to make arrows? This might be fun for the first five minutes, but eventually you just roll your eyes when you run out of arrows. Luckily, you can later buy these from merchants and don't have to waste time farming. Elden Ring is not a total disaster. In its core disciplines, it is just as much fun as the previous titles. Only the open world makes the game too easy and fills it with too much idleness and boredom. Personally, I would like FromSoftware to go back to the menacing, atmospheric, yet rewardingly explorable and well designed linear levels. Oh, and a new setting would be very refreshing, I don't really need a Dark Souls 5.
The game is a masterpiece, reading people complaining about the game having performance issues (not my case at all) and giving it a 0 note just for that is just sad, also people complaining about the game being to punshing or being too much like Dark Souls, people, what did you expect, is a SOULS game after all, **** of course it will be like Dark Souls
Id rate this game a 9 but want to counter some of the review bombing. It seems like many people fell into the game because of the hype unprepared for how fromsoft does its storytelling. If you talk to npcs and read item descriptions the rich story comes together very well. The world is chockfull of great gear and unique encounters. And folks who think comparing the mechanics to previous fromsoft titles is a reason for a low score confuse me. There is plenty added to the combat system and a new degree of verticality that makes exploring better than its ever been. Im about 50hrs in and still getting surprised by things, and still feel engaged. Didnt have to grind once. If something in the map feels hard, come back to it later, not a tricky concept in open world games. I will say that the performance issues at launch are problematic, but nothing that wont get addressed in patches. The game is hard, but the open world helps with accessibility since you can try somewhere else. I will critique that the game should imply more thoroughly that following the main bath for a bit first nets you the ability to level, travel faster, and use items that help your progression. Missing those and wandering off is a possibility. Im probably a fromsoft fanboy, and this game requires time and immersive investment. But I think its great, and doesnt deserve to get review bombed by people who didnt bother to listen to the npcs talk about the world.
Things you need to know if you are a beginner: The game is not easy, but it is not difficult either. it's probably one of the most accessible From Software games ever. Take your time to learn the game mechanics and you won't regret it. Remember it is an RPG and tactics matter. For those who have already played DS, it could be a "more of the same", but it is much improved in the mechanics and in the possibilities of the game. The open world isn't perfect, but it makes you want to constantly explore it. It has some technical flaws, but it will certainly be improved with patches in the coming weeks.
How it is possible 10/10 for this game ? I am sorry but this game deserve max 7-8 score because this game is overrated and published with media inflation.
IF you like souls games it’s 10/10, if you’re a hypebeast stay with COD this isn’t your bag
Best game I've tried in a long time! Never tried any of the previous Souls games, but this is amazing. Challenging and frustrating at times, but always fun.
10/10 just for all these try hards throwing out 0's. Gameplay is fine, graphics are decent. Smooth as butter in performance mode. Typical From Software difficulty, but all of you clowns complaining about it knew that before pre-ordering, right? Right.
If you're bad its not games fault, its quite easy, just stop crying and GIT GUD
This game has 97/100 because the professional reviewers actually played past the first major boss before they left a review. If you like the standard AAA formula of 5 hours of tutorials followed by a bunch of side quests dumped on your map to walk between point A and B then this game is probably not for you. If you want to be able to kill every enemy straight away as soon as you meet them without practicing or having the discipline to leave it and come back when you're ready then this game is probably not for you. If this game is not for you then that's ok, but the game is not "unfair" or "outdated". It's very fair, but it requires patience, discipline and some intelligence to actually try doing something else if the thing you're doing is too difficult (people complaining they spent 40 tries on a single enemy, perhaps explore a different area first?) If you persevere past the first major boss then you'll probably think this game is 10/10. If you don't then you will think it's garbage.
After 40+ hours with the game, I can definitely say that it's one of the best open world games I've ever had the chance to play. Unlike most open world games that release nowadays, Elden Ring does not hold your hand constantly throughout your adventure, but instead gives you the core tools in order to go out and explore the huge world at your own pace. It really does feel like everywhere you go, you will encounter some interesting creatures, npcs, locations and bosses. I believe that this is the most beginner friendly game from FromSoftware, as everytime you hit a wall you can just go someplace else and get stronger. Regarding the difficulty, it's what you'd expect from a FromSoftware game. It packs a challenge, but it does provide all sorts of tools that you can use to ease your experience. Regarding the combat, you can tell that they have picked mechanics from all of their previous games, and it feels more fluid and developed than ever. The art direction is amazing, from the moment you step outside into the world you are hit with a wonderful scenery and this stays consistent throughout the game. I did not have any performance issues, the game stayed at a constant 55-60 fps on Performance Mode (PS5) and I've only experienced one minor bug. I would take low ratings seen here with a grain of salt, it appears that they mostly come from people who were not familiar with FromSoftware's game style but bought the game without any research due to hype. If you like a game constantly telling you what to do, providing no challenge whatsoever, duplicating the same locations and enemies throughout the whole map while using basic and clunky fighting mechanics (basically most open world games nowadays), Elden Ring is not the game for you. Otherwise, if you're looking for an adventure where you will feel extremely immersed and where you can feel like you are slowly getting better as you explore the world, please play it as soon as possible.
Amazing Zelda BOTW Open world, with Dark Souls mechanics... do I need to say more?
I was shocked to see people giving this game a bad rating. I am so picky when it comes to console games (games in general); however, this game appears flawless to me. I loved the look of darksouls games but they were so damn hard. I find this game challenging but not like demon souls games. The open world, ambiance, im speechless. Just an amazing game that has so much mystery i find myself thinking about the game when im not playing it. Been over a decade since ive been that into a game.
Don't let the marketing fool you, its still very much a dark souls game at its core, only with finely tuned and polished game play mechanics. Fantastic open world, extremely impressive for a the team's first crack at it. It doesn't reinvent the style like some claim but is defiantly a breath of fresh air from recent titles. All in all, its a nice and tight package that's worth picking up if you're into the genre
This game does not deserve a 97 score. It is very mediocre and the world feels empty. I have lost all hope in the gaming industry.
This game is amazing! I will admit that I am biased, but FromSoft did it again. I thought I wouldn't like the open world exploration bit because of how many games get that wrong, but I was very wrong.
Don’t believe hype, this game is totally BS. Terrible controls with sluggish animation make this feel like ps1 era 3D platformer. Graphics are also adopted from that era too. Enemy AI is at par with super mario 3. If this game would have been released in 1995 I would understand all the praise, but in 2022.. I don’t know how much from software pay for these ”critic” reviews. I don't mind playing difficult games, but with this one difficulty dosen't come with difficult enemies or level design. It comes from the never endeng battle against unresponsive controls and canned animations. Since when bad game desing is called artistic vision?
The definition of a Masterpiece game. An endless world with the best story telling of all souls game
It's a 10 because there's a lady who gives you free hugs. Finally female affection. Thanks Miyazaki.
Perfect. Amazing. Can’t describe how much I love this game! Please buy it, you won’t be disappointed.
As a souls fan this surpasses anything I could have imagined. Finally a game that delivered.
Amazing game if you like the typical FromSoftware formula. If you didn’t like Dark Souls, there’s a good chance you won’t like it. I don’t really understand why so many people are review bombing…in my opinion, it’s the best game to come out for PS5 so far.
If you love fromsoft games, this wont be any different, great take on the genre, you might have a little bit short of a hundred hours worth of content for a first playthrough, and a lot of possibilities for replayability. Great experience !
Don't listen to the review bombing BS. This game is actually amazing. The only people having issues are the cry babies on PC. On console the game runs pretty well. Also, I think the game is " hard" then they aren't trying to learn. For these people," go back to call of duty" .
Great game. I’ll be playing for hundreds of hours. I don’t even know how long it will take me to platinum
Elden Ring is a Souls game at its core, but it's the ultimate version of a Souls game. It feels like the culmination of everything From Software has worked on in the last 15 years coming together in one incredible package. A massive, beautiful open world with dungeons all throughout. Top tier boss fights, and combat that's been refined, adopting some elements from previous FS games and introducing new mechanics like the guard counter. interesting and complex level design that will have you obsessively searching around every corner, and now with a whole new element of verticality thanks to jumping being introduced. RPG character building and stat allocation, allowing you to customize in depth what kind of character you want to play. If you're a fan of From Software's previous works it's 100% a must play. The issue with the user reviews of this game is that it's the first From Soft game to truly catch the attention of the masses. These games do not hold your hand and they're not afraid to kick you into the dirt. I have a feeling this left a lot of people frustrated on first impression, who then promptly dropped the game and proceeded to write a negative review blaming their lack of ability on the game. If you're new to this series, keep in mind that it takes patience and persistence. It will be difficult at times, but you'll learn and overcome, eventually mastering the game, and I think once you do, these games offer an experience like no other.
Best game of the decade! I love the souls series and this game is the best one that FromSoftware has ever made. They have taken everything of their previous developed games, picked the best parts and put it in a gigantic open world free to explore for everyone from beginning. And there is a lot to explore. There are so many different types of weapons with different playstyles. Every bossfight is unique and challenging. I will definetly buy a dlc of this game if they will develop one.
This game is a MASTERPIECE!! Everything you can find is exciting, every corner has something. The exploration is very rewarding. Amazing world building. It is a Soul game in it's core, so you will die, a lot.
From soft just made this game to boost their own ego. Open world is pointless the grind at the start is ridiculous and ruins the fun. Half the time I’m fighting the camera more than the boss. About every boss is reskinned like 5 times to increase boss count. Doesn’t live up to their reputation
The game is good and beautiful in the style of Souls, and without exaggeration, the best, and I really enjoyed both the story of this game and the extremely beautiful gameplay of this title.
Dont waste your time with this dumpster fire. Play elder scrolls online instead. It's everything this game wishes it could be
Dont hear those clowns that rate 0 or 1 for this game. Elden Ring is a product of FromSoftware studio, and they are so unique to other games that they have their own catalogue name for it: soulborne. Those are the games you won't beat without dying. Those games demand you to get good and pay attention to the game since there are no quest log They also want you to explore the combat mechanic, and the beautiful yet depressive world. So for all the clowns that rated 1 or 0. Go do some research about soulborne game and instead of complaining, get good.
DONT BUY. Melee dex is completely freaking useless I had to farm endlessly as a dex melee character to beat the second boss, I farmed til I was level 50 while he is like a level 20. Meanwhile mages are one shotting bosses. This game is just beyond awful. If you play a melee character you will die endlessly, as every boss and miniboss and strong normal mobs have aoe attack with tracing! Oh and also 80%+ are faster than you. Not to mention theres both input delay and input que take when you dodge roll for instance so the roll happens 0.5 sec later (great design in a reflex game, real genius) and regarding input delay you will die many a time due to your character deciding to do a command 2 commands ago. Also this games design is just awful, damn awful. Lets compare this awful game to some of my favorite games like take dota 2, (the real hardest game in the world not filled with BS mechanics) and diablo 2. In dota 2 all heroes are free and everyone is at equal footing since everyone can pick everyone. This means that even though you might die to another hero you can just spam that hero from now on and realise his strengths and weaknesses after 10-100 games. In diablo 2 theres this frustrating mechanic called hit recovery. What it does is it stunlocks you if damage taken exceeds 12% of max life. Now it can be very annoying getting stun locked to death, but this leads me to my point: in diablo 2 the enemys ALSO HAS HIT RECOVERY. IN OTHER WORDS ITS AN EVEN PLAYING FIELD. I CAN STUNLOCK THEM TO DEATH ALSO LEADING ME TO NOT GET MAD IF I GET STUN LOCKED TO DEATH COMPLETELY UNLIKE ELDEN RING, WHERE BOSSES HAVE ENDLESS STAMINA (unlike the melee characters who can only do 4 hits, or atleast samurai can only do that the character im playing..). Enemys also often 2 or 3 shot me while I have put the last 30 levels into damage through dexterity and gotten ONE damage point per level. ONE. This game isnt even hard like the fanboys claim (and then just insult you and tell you to get good when you call out bosses tracing you mid attack during a dodge roll) its just watching, waiting to get a single or two hits in if youre melee then trying to bait out the correct range to do it again. The bosses have much more fun than the player characters they actually have cool combos and skillsets and get to play the game, the player character just stands and runs around waiting for the bosses endless combos to end. Buy this game if you love dying unfairly hundreds of times, cheesy out dated artificial difficulty mechanics, **** controls due to it being a console port, and running around aimlessly in an empty world.
Its one of the best games ive ever played! + Amazing open world + Amazing combat + Great bosses + Beatiful art design + Great soundtrack + Addictive gameplay + Great exploration - has some performance issues and stuttering
Graphics look last gen and totally bland. Clunky as hell and too hard for the average gamer. Would love to know the point of making a game so hard that people dont see content. I quit in 30 mins, Horizon forbidden west os miles more rewarding. I dont have time for this **** of dying 70 times on a boss.
Despite being an 'open world" this game feels more lineal than the other souls games! The main objective in this game is literally is to jump between "legacy dungeons" and literally that's the hole point of the game which gets pretty generic real quick, which is disappointing as the open world mostly feels empty with just ruins (with nothing interesting on them) to visit throughout the world and lame dungeons with the same boss for almost every dungeon. I genuinely was expecting something great as playing the CNT and seeing the amount of content we got on main Limgrave was massive, unfortunately, fromsoft baited us, because main Limgrave is the place with more stuff to do than any other place in this stupid linear map! I honestly would've preferred a linear game instead of this crap.
Calling this game a masterpiece is an understatement. Its the ultimate version of the souls formula that we all know and love
If you’re a fan of mythology, good combat, and a challenge then this game is for you. If you’re a lil Jimmy who’s scared to play a game without the game constantly holding your hand, telling you where to go & what to do, then this game is not for you.
Slash....slash...slash...roll.....roll...roll...I don't get the hype!!! The game is boring as hell. Enemies have weird hitboxes. Performance is **** how the hell did this game get almost a perfect score?? The only thing remotely good about this game is the enemy designs especially the dragons. The rest is outdated!!
Absolute masterpiece. I'm only 30 hours in and absolutely delighted with the world they created. The only flaw I see? This game needs a warning on its cover: "not another ubi-like game" No, seriously, I'm so tired of games that constantly hold my hand and treat me like I'm a child. Unlike FarCry, Horizon, Ghost of Tsushima, Assassins Creed and others, Elden Ring trust its players. Here you get to truly explore a world in ruins. It's a beautiful and mysterious land. You see a castle far away? An abandoned house? A cavern entrance? Maybe go take a look. And be sure you'll find a location that is so unique it doesn't need question marks or a compass pointing to it. Same for the non-player characters and their quests. They also feel unique and tailored to be memorable. Not the traditional "fetch x pieces of wood", "kill x boars" nonsense you see anywhere else. This game respects your time. What to say about the combat? Deep and strategic, simply put. Again, if you face your enemies like you would have done in Assassins Creed you're in for a world of pain and frustration. Combat in Elden Ring is all about observing, learning and committing to each and every action you perform. Take for instance Tree Sentinel. Bastard demolished me for at least two hours, but I eventually killed him, though not before I learned his attacks (and took some good rest so my brain could absorb what I learned). And that's how it was meant to be. Tree Sentinel is now a satisfying memory of a challenge I overcame. See you again in NG+ my friend. Sadly this game is not for everyone, and it's fine. Just know what you are getting in before you buy it.
This is the most fun I've had with a game in ages. If you enjoy Souls games, you'll enjoy Elden Ring. If this is your first time, it's the best time to jump in, as the open world allows you to come back to an area later if you're struggling with it. What I love about these games, is that it lets you explore the world without necessarily throwing everything in your face. It leaves a lot open for you to interpret, in the best way. I also love the feeling of struggling with a boss, but figuring out his pattern and moves step by step, until finally you beat him after you just feel so accomplished. Not to mention the different playstyles you can go for, the different weapons you can use and on top of that the improved magic system. Elden Ring definitely gets close to a 10 for me, personally, and with the fake reviews, and the pretentious people seeking attention by giving it a 0 because "it's DS3", I definitely think it deserves it.
Habitually, I'm not a fan of open world games, but this game is perfect. You don't feel like your an errand boy, you can really take the time to admire the details of this world. Boss fights are brutal you have think and not stupidly run into the fights. Of course if you like to be taken by the hand this might not be a game for you.
Not everyone deserves to become an Elden lord, most of the people who are saying this game is too hard or unfair have grown spoiled and used to being held by and pushed through without any effort on their side.. its okay, if you dont like the game give up and make way for others... let true Elden ring players take up the position of Elden Lords.
There is little that could be improved a excellent marriage of what worked well in the previous fromsoftware games brought together In an absolute masterpiece
The same game over and over and over and over and over and over and over...
Good For Me. Just signed up to show my respect. I just finished Dark Souls 3, and now Elden Ring brings me a lot of fun.
One os the best openworld game ever made this game is the kind of game that every owner of PS5, PS4, XBOX, XBOX SERIES, PC must have in your collection . Pros : history, gameplay, music, atmosphere, sidequests , everting related to the core game is amazing . cons : Bad grafics for next gen consoles, instable fps, lacked a less aggressive difficulty mode for new players . MY FINAL NOTE IS 9.5/10
At my opinion from software manage completely to make a open world soul game from another dimension. Despite the hard difficulty in every corner have a new opportunity and the curiosity sometimes will reward you with something awesome. The scale and the map you can easily compair it with skyrim. Overall i am level 70 and i dont even complete half of the map. Good luck feature erder lords
I was never a fan of the souls game series. And even after completing the ps5 remake of demon souls I am still not fond of the series. I would give demon souls a 8.5 because I really enjoyed it and I never played anything like it but the slow paced constant death gameplay is not my cup of tea. Elden ring combines souls combat with a very dense and detailed open world and a decent story in my opinion. I haven't finished the game yet but I have watched gameplays and review and though I do see why many regard this game as the game of the year. In my personal opinion I find souls combat repetitive and somewhat boring. Don't get me wrong the open world is amazing, in fact most of the hours I put onto the game are me just exploring what the world has to offer. If you are into souls games give this a try. If you are not into souls games then this won't change your thoughts on the saga. 7/10 not my cup of tea, demon souls was better in my opinion, boring outdated combat, bad performance, okay story. What carries this game is the open world.
i am very angry at the pvp. you can ONLY be invaded if you have a summoned helper (which i never do) and can only invade if the person has a helper. what is this? you have been ruining pvp with this rule since the travesty that was dark souls 3. the game itself is fine if you don't care about pvp at **** i did
A masterpiece. Definitely Miyazaki's magnum opus. Never thought anything could top Sekiro or bloodborne but holy
Amaasaaaassaaaaaaazing this game is phenomenal. I love it. Highly recommend you give it a shot. This is my favorite game of all time. Indeed.
The game is amazing, every evolution from all their IPs have gone into the game making it amazing. Yes it is difficult it is a From Software game, but it is easier than the rest due to the open world, giving you the ability to become over leveled for bosses to make them sit ificantly easier.. the only reason this is not a 10/10 is the lack of optimization, very rarely am I running 60fps on ps5 and texture pop in is every where you travel. But so far with 30 hours in it, it's my favorite game of all time, beating my old favorite, bloodborne.
This is just another perfect fromsoftware title. Most people i see complaining here in the reviews clearly never played another fromsoftware game before and just bought it because of the hype. People are crying about the fact that the story isn't obvious and that there are no clear objectives. But that is kinda the point in all of the fromsoftware games. if you want to know the lore you got to look for it yourself. people are also complaining that this game is just darksouls 4 with open world. thats right. if you don't like that, then this game is indeed not for you. the only reason why this game is a 9 and not a 10 is because of the minor performance issues. sometimes the fps drops to 30. and the game is indeed not as beautiful as other ps5 titles like demon's souls. but for me personally that is not really an issue.
The story seems really interesting, but the camera angles and the mechanics just make it frustrating and not at all enjoyable to play for me. Wish I'd waited to buy this instead of listening to the people who said it was a must play, as I feel I've wasted my money.
Elden Ring’s gameplay offers lot of fun with its challenging battles and freedom to play in the way you want. You can play as a mage who uses spells or even as a loincloth wearing guy with a giant club. Game offers also a horse named Torrent which you can use to travel even long distances in the vast open world that has many beautiful sceneries. Elden Ring’s graphics aren’t anything special when you compare it to other games on PS5. Game looks still amazing with the PS5 even thou there are few times when some things have lower texture quality. These little flaws game patches with its outstanding art direction. Elden Ring is 10/10 game that I would recommend to everyone who wants something challenging, new and non-generic.
A masterpiece. If you have a potato pc dont buy it monkey just have a gtx 1060
After 20 hours. After every playing session i end up feeling like I've just finished a chore. Empty uninteresting world. The really did peak with DS3. I gotta say the visuals mixing with the music is really breathtaking sometimes but actually playing it is just not fun.
First time playing a FromSoftware game and I am absolutely amazed by the game. I will admit, the game is hard, but it allows you such freedom to explore and come back later to those "hell areas", making them more manageable once you are better prepared. Been a while since I have been so submerged in a game. Definitely worth the purchase.
Is this game good? Yes. Does it deserve a 97? No. Last gen looking graphics with a fair amount of pop in and frame drops, cheap deaths i.e. bad hit boxes or being stabbed through solid walls, and the overall souls mechanic keep it from being a 9 or 10 for me. This game has made me realize that I just don’t like souls games. I don’t like the lack of difficulty settings, I don’t like the laggy/delayed button inputs, I don’t like not having real checkpoints, I don’t like losing all my xp when I die. It’s just not for me. However, I find myself enjoying the world they built. It’s interesting enough to make up for all the stuff I don’t like. The lore and character/world design is amazing and that by itself has kept me playing and invested, hence my rating. My hope is that by pushing myself though this to learn more of the lore that I’ll become better along the way to the point of not minding the souls mechanics.
An absolutely masterpiece in all aspects; combat, exploration, world building, level design, story telling, art style, and everything else you can think of. I absolutely recommend this game to anyone and everyone.
I don't think that my long-winded review may do this justice. So let me just say this. This game deserves all its hype. Despite the unfortunate performance issues faced by certain players, I truly believe this was Hidetake Miyazaki's and Fromsoftware magnum opus. It's the culmination of all the games that came before - Demon Souls, Dark Souls, Bloodborne and Sekiro, but the world is much more expansive, rich with lores, great gameplay, amazing locations, mind-blowing soundtracks, and grounded characters. Truly deserving its spot as one of the best games of all time.
So many options, so much to see. Truly a blessing to play blind for the first time, this game truly is an adventure.
Game is extremely boring with tons of time waster mechanics and an empty world. Same mechanics animations and graphics as the previous fromsoft games. I guess the dodgerolled innovation. Critic reviews are obvious bought reviews just like every game heralded as a 10/10.
This is such an amazing game. Loved every moment. Are you having a hard time? Explore and you'll get better. I hear PC has some issues, probably will get fix soon. Have not noticed any issues on my PS5 and I'm about 30 hours in. A bit challenging at times, but still an amazing game.
Absolutely amazing game I've always loved dark souls games but could never finish them this is the first I've been able to get past the 3 hour mark tho it's still crazy difficult the world is massive and beautiful bosses are challenging and fun the only flaw I see is the locked frame rate as I have a hi end PC that could most definitely be capable of pushing out more then 60 fps
This game is a dark souls game with open world. It very playable, but it not a next generation console game. I think Software is screwed us with a PS4 game and released as a PS5 game. The graphics is a PS4 game and I think Dark souls 3 is better then Elden Ring. The loading speeds is better then PS4, but it can't compare to game like Demon souls remake. Elden Ring is less than 45 gig. Demon souls are around 100 gigs. You can tell the graphics and loading speeds are way better. The price tag should be less. They want to make alot of money without spending more money.
A true atmospheric masterpiece. A huge and interesting open world that begs to be explored. So many bosses and beautiful looking areas. This is a massive game that any Souls fan should love. I've noticed a little grass pop-in in one small area but it barely takes away from how great this game is. Listen to the professional reviewers. This game is amazing and is definitely a must play.
If you've never played before, don't. Prepare for a support-less aimless wondering into story-less pointless battle after battle. Quest? What quest? Just wonder around, die a few times and call it amazing...
I’m a regular person playing this game. I’ve never rated a game on this website and I thought I would do so with this one. This is by far the least accessible souls I’ve played out of all the soulstitles. I’ll say the pros. The pros are the visuals, the music throughout the game, the combat system, and more. But bro , the boss battles are so stupidly implemented with one shot mechanics and unavoidable randomized attacks. I’m currently on the last boss, I have completed the game up to that point and I would never recommend this game to a newcomer or a friend trying to get into the series. Even for me somebody who has beaten all the souls games in the past, the bosses on this game are on a different level compared to past souls entries. I would say if you’re playing the game in terms of starting to mid level you’re going to have a great time. But close to endgame types of bosses, you’re going to spend countless hours due to one shot mechanics that even at high vigor will not save you from unless you overlevel which I feel should not be needed for these types of games because it feels cheap. I feel that the difficulty of these late bosses are implemented so poorly that I feel a number of people will give up due to their cheap mechanics. This game is just good at the beginning but late game is so terrible with these fights and I don’t know why they think good gameplay should include one shot mechanics and randomized unavoidable attacks that take so many hours to master.
Actually horrible. There are no language options for some languages and not enough swamps.
Elden Ring is by far the greatest video game to come out since Fallout 3 and Bloodborne. It will most likely go down as the best video game ever made. It’s basically perfect.
Elden ring is a masterpiece and the fromsoftware's best entry in soulsborne series yet. If you like soulsborne, you'll absolutely love this. The open world is gorgeous and sprawling, full of a ridiculous number of interesting and unique nooks and crannies. This continues the trend of souls games having unbeliable ambiance and unique storytelling. The worldbuilding here is excellent. This game is not for everyone, if you don't like souls games, this is definitely a souls experience. If you like souls this will be your game of the year.
While the game is fun I can only give it a 5 out of 10 strictly because its abusive toward the consumer as far as how straight punishing combat is. What I mean is bosses have very small hit boxes an can strike through walls an objects while your weapons bounce off of walls an objects an cannot hit the enemy through objects that cause collision like they can. Then bosses tend to move very fast an deal massive damage almost once shotting you every time, if your a meele build the game will punish you even worse but not as bad for casters. A game should be enjoyable you shouldn't be dying 30 times in a row just to get by an enemy, an people can say get good but that isn't even half the problem, most of the time you can't find the things needed to upgrade your weapons an the only armour altering down grades it absolutely nothing yet to improve it. On top of this their is times the enemy's weapon clearly did not strike me but I still take damage from them, then they also have you fighting multiple fast moving bosses at one time. Nothing about encounters is really fun with over 100 hours in I find myself constantly getting more an frustrated with the overall decision making as far as combat goes because it is no longer fun but more makes me want to send foul nasty messages to the devs because they clearly don't know the correct mix between fun an challenging what this game is, is strictly crap all the good an wonderful things about it arw straight ruined by super challenging enemy's an if you die well you lose all your experience making leveling harder because its also your money too. Then lets get into the crap frame rate that is constantly dipping close an close to 30FPS rather than 60. Then you also have idiot players leaving messages on things you need to interact with making offline play almost a necessity because it becomes annoying while playing. No point really in greater runes either because you have to find a rune arc to activate them but they seem to be in very limited supply or cost over 4000 exp a pop. While I started off loving the game now that I am on the mountain of giants area I am ready to quit over just not being able to kill anything because enemy's disappear an then are instantly behind you then throw combo after combo relentless leaving you no opening whatsoever an if you do strike they are never stund like you are but can attack through all your moves an kill you instantly. This game is not a must play at all it is a beautifully crafted game utterly ruined by combat alone.
A masterpiece, I can't remember the last time I was this addicted to a video game. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
The graphics remind me of a PS3 game. Jesus....This game needs to take some tips from Horizon FB
If you are a Souls fan - this is a great game. I have not had any frame or slowdown issues that others are mentioning. If you are new to the Souls series or games similar to it there will be a learning curve. The game is not for everyone but I love it.
STORY: Unlike Dark Souls, Elden Ring has a very clear-cut story, rather than putting bits and pieces of it in dialogue and item descriptions, it very clearly tells you what's going on and why you're doing what you must. GRAPHICS: The graphics are beautiful, some of the best in a game I've seen. However, it's not game breaking like Demon Souls, and that's fine, fans of the souls series never came for the graphics, but they were always appreciated. The graphics have their good moments, and their bad ones. For example, the door to the walking mausoleum is extremely low quality, it's unsettling, but not enough to remove a point from the score. The fight against Rennala Queen of The Full Moon was gorgeous, the look of the spells is better than they've ever been. GAMEPLAY: Elden Ring rewards players for exploration, whether the reward is smithing stones for upgrades, or one of 83 bosses in the game, no matter which one however, the player is guaranteed to get an item that might be of use to them. Unlike past games, Elden Ring allows you to prepare for bosses, to come back whenever you're stronger after being defeated by a boss you weren't able to defeat, this allows the game to be either the hardest of all Fromsoftware games, or the easiest, depending on how you play. COMBAT: This will be short. The combat in Elden Ring is the basic combat we're used to in every other souls game, but better. In Dark Souls you'd typically dodge the boss waiting for an opening, then use your regular attack. However, Elden Ring has adopted the posture system from Sekiro, making heavy attacks and jumping heavy attacks used more. The bosses as I've seen are also more aggressive than previous games. You can't just go in with heavy armor and a big weapon expecting to defeat the boss easily, you have to find out their moves, see which ones give the biggest openings for attacks, and hopefully get a hit in. Torrent, the spectral steed that you get early on, also contributes much to fights. Often times you'll find yourself relying on Torrent to have an easier time with some bosses. PERFORMANCE: At launch the performance on PC was poor to say the least, which is understandable seeing as this is the first time Fromsoftware has done an open world game like Elden Ring. However, patches are being released in order to fix optimization issues. A patch was released recently which seemed to fix the issue, if not at least a little bit. If you're a person who's always wanted to play a game like Dark Souls but is afraid of the difficulty, now is the time to purchase Elden Ring. If you don't like it, you can always refund it on Steam.
The name Elden Ring in itself is misleading. It's Elden Ring in name only. Should have just been called Dark Souls 4 instead as its the same tried and tried Dark Souls gameplay with the addition of an open world map and a horse. Enemy, dungeon variety and some backgrounds resembling paintings are some of the only unique redeeming features in an otherwise totally mediocre package with a boring empty world to navigate, no interesting navigation in the world outside of horse mounts, washed out last-gen visuals with a bleak depressing setting as well as numerous performance issues that are evident throughout. After giving this game a second chance, I just cannot see how this game possibly deserved all time high scores from reviewers. Maybe down the line with some additional DLC the game might improve further, but right now, I cannot recommend this game to anyone other than dedicated Souls fans. This has to go down as one of the most shameful chapters in game review history (with reviewers bias blatantly turning a blind eye to the games issues) with Elden Ring becoming one of the most overrated games of all time. There are far better open world games worth your time over this one.
Listen, I understand the bad reviews if you can't play the game or it doesn't support your desired language, fine. Some of you are so focused on the graphic quality and difficulty that you assume the game is horrible and turn it off. However, after playing this game for 30 hours instead of ten minutes, I fully, 100% believe this game deserves a 10
This is sadly a terribly over hyped game it seems like 90% of this games budget went to advertising it,upon playing it I see that the same exact game could have been made as a mod with Dark Souls asset packs on PC,the combat is the exact same the other games minus a jump attack,same janky camera bad hit detection and sometimes unresponsive controls,no doubt in my mind these gaming outlets were paid off big time for the laughably inflated 10 score this is kind of a shell **** will probably be bargain bin fodder in 2 to 3 months
The most immersive and fun game in many years. I have played for 50hrs and still feel like its an adventure im dying to pursue. Quite literally 10/10 game of the decade
game is really bad in optimization, game mechanics are dull, UI is crap and most of world interactions are text based. Graphics are nothing impressive while world design and general art style is a plus. In summary very overrated
One of the best game i ever played , when ever i go I discover something , the world is very rich .
All the negative reviews are from people malding that they **** at the game, this game is a masterpiece. The mixed reviews I would say can be somewhat helpful, but all the negative reviews are incredibly misleading
Good Game! Awesome Game! Fantastic Game! It´s enjoyable, fun, has a tight controller over gameplay and very atmospheric!
About as perfect as a game can get. It's so hard to put the game down and remember you have a life in the real world.
Without a doubt the most rewarding game of all time. Instant classic! 10/10 all day
never thought they would surprass bloodborne but this game is a masterpiece, after 40h on it i understand now why it took so much time to develop. artistically outstanding and perfect gameplay.
Playing on PS5, graphic is more than bad, not even close to next gen... just another souls crap
Unplayable on PS5... headache after 5 min with the **** motion blur and terrible frame rate....huge From fan btw but this is unacceptable.
In progress. But this game has been something truly special for me. I know a lot of people are having some performance issues and can understand the frustration with that and don't hold it against them. For me though this game is as good as it gets. I haven't had the issues others claim to have and I've played games more in the last 5 days then I have in a long time.
Honestly, no clue why people are **** on this game so much, for having "PS3 graphics". First off, the graphics don't really matter. Good gameplay is what really matters, which it has. Secondly, the graphics are amazing anyways. Sometimes, I'll stop riding my horse on a high point and just admire the graphics. Additionally, you can make out every single brick on a wall. If those are PS3 graphics, I have no clue how PS4 graphics look.
Game is too hard and that automatically makes it a terrible game. Games shouldn't be this hard
If you like dark souls 3. And you want to spend the same money as a full price game for what is effectively a dlc of dark souls 3, this game is for you. This game is such an insult to gamers that they didn't even change the hud from dark souls to make the new ip feel new. Cut and paste game with dated graphics and frame rate issues. Avoid
Some games are fun, some games give you good moments, some games give you competitive **** then there's elden ring. A game that has all above mentioned and goes further by helping someone relieve and forget from the real world while making an unforgettable experience. A must play, even for non fans of the souls series.
If you are review boming this game becouse of difficulty watch this ****/pKyKGuGU4bw This games graphics I have played for 20 hour's now Defeating bosses with friends is so satafying
Fantastic. This game brings me pure joy from the moment I boot up the title screen. Today, open-world games are empty, boring, and full of outposts that are all the same. This game defies that norm. The world is abundant with unique locations, NPCs, weapons, armors, secrets, dungeons, castles, and caves. Must I go on? FROMSOFT isn't known for having the best graphics, but in this game, the graphics are good, especially for a game that prioritizes gameplay, the scenery is to die for. The difficulty is a notch higher than other games, but it isn't greater than the other games in the SoulsBorne series, making this the easiest way to start a venture into the franchise. The bosses are unique in both appearance and movesets. This game will have you playing for hours at a time with its riveting story and delightful gameplay. I see this game as becoming a standard for future games to come.
Elden Ring is brilliant and one of the very best games I've ever played. Fans of FromSoft's previous games should absolutely NOT miss this one, and even fans who have never played a Soulslike should give it a try. Its massive open world sets new standards for depth & detail and is simply filled to the brim with secrets to find, dungeons to explore, and foes to slay. Combat is just as tough as in previous FromSoft games, but Elden Ring offers build variety and supportive mechanics that take some of the edge off of the harder bosses. The freedom to leave & explore another area, instead of just banging your head against a single boss fight, really shakes up the FromSoft formula. I think this freedom will be one of the main factors that allows novices to ease into its style of gameplay. At the time of writing I am currently experiencing occasional frame stutters, during which my FPS drops from a steady 60 to mid-40s. These typically occur in the Open World, when transitioning between areas of the map. I'm confident FromSoft will fix the issue with patches (no, not THAT Patches), and my experience with it simply isn't enough for me to not recommend Elden Ring to others. For reference, I am playing on an i7-10700KF with an RTX 3070 and 32 GB of RAM, with all settings turned to High and resolution at 1440. The game is the culmination of the FromSoft formula and shouldn't be missed. Not saying that tech issues aren't important, but don't let it stop you from getting Elden Ring.
Well, if you don't even a bit use the feature of haptic feedback when patching the game for PS 5 you can't get a high score. Was really disappointed. Played 1 hour and then returned to Returnal instead.
Anyone saying that graphics are not bad or "there are no graphics issues on PS5 blah blah blah" is either lying or needs to play other games, than just Souls games. These graphics are worse than any AAA game from 2015/2016. This is NOT something you can make arguments for or argue about. These are simple facts and you can verify them very easily by either playing older games or just checking Youtube videos of these games. Ironically outdated graphics are not the main issue with this game at all. My god, games in 2015 looked great. GTA 5 on PC that came out April 2015, looks still phenomenally good. So i have zero issues with 2015 graphics, i love 2015 graphics, but not on 2022 games, that should have 2022 graphics. Is this too complicated to understand for fanboys? But even then, i could play it with these graphics, if actual game itself was good. Sadly it's far, far from good. It's extremely mediocre, world is E M P T Y. There's nothing but empty areas between caves and monster locations and then you find some small ruins here or there. That's the whole map design. That's bad. That's amateur level or map designing. Story is there, but it's not nearly fun or interesting enough, that i would spend hours learning every boss move sets. I actually liked how bosses looked like (like their look, not how they make combos or whatever, but just how they look like). I think dragons looked way too basic, but some MAIN bosses, looked interesting enough. I almost got this anime vibe, that very first boss already feels like final boss, but actually there's countless of other bosses after him, who are ever stronger, bigger, etc. Sadly that wasn't enough for me, i wanted this game to be way more complex than just boss killing simulator, i wanted it to be deeper, i wanted it to be actually INTERESTING. I can tolerated difficult bosses, if game itself is interesting enough for me, to want to keep going. But this game doesn't have that. It doesn't have that "Resident Evil 4" (2005) vibe where there will be cool story moments after this epic boss fight, etc. There's none of that. If you beat the two bosses in castle, all you get is just another big swamp area full of random generic monsters for you to fight with. Too me that's so boring, so basic and so empty that i just didn't care anymore. In the end of the day, i will never play this game again, i didn't refund, i simply uninstalled it and went back to play some actually great games to get rid of that "empty, meaningless" feeling that Elden Ring left in me. I will never talk about this game again with anyone. I will never recommend this game to anyone and i will try to ignore that it ever existed, because it was that bland.
A game suitable for the mentally ill Bad game Repeat all this and the game world is very empty
Some truth needs to be told here... I literally just created an account to leave this review. I don't even leave reviews for any games or products, but this game deserves one. See below: Those reviews seems to be financed by marketing. The game is fantastic don't get me wrong. It doesn't have a proper story, but who expects a story from these kind of games. It's more about the exploration/fighting. I love it, and it's basically DS4 in an open world filled with interesting things. Now that I mentioned the best part about it, here is what's wrong with this game. The game has TECHNICAL ISSUES that no one is talking about. I lost 6 hours (10 level worth) on my PS5 yesterday because it's saving system is broken. It literally DOES NOT SAVE, it does not even give you a warning, nothing. You just don't know it. When you try to quit the game, then close it (like developers recommended), and then suddenly it crashes your ps5 and turns it off, just be sure that how many hours you have put in it that specific walk through, did not count one bit. It's literally a waste of time. I don't get how reviewers are overlooking this serious matter. I will never trust any critic's review on this website
Spent 3 hours playing the night I got it on ps4, multiple auto saves at bonfires, then i manually exited and saved game, woke up the next day back at 10 minutes into the game & level 10 again, played another 7 hours that day, saved it all properly, went to go back on it a few hours later & the game hadn’t saved again, the game is unplayable without being able to save
The first game In a long time, that I can confidently say is just special. No one game has engrossed me like this since Skyrim back in 2011. Elden ring is surely a title we will be speaking about for years to come
One of the best games of the year. Great gameplay that gives a twist to the already amazing FromSoftware formula. Stunning Visuals and very beautiful world! Tons of content that you can dive for hundreds if not thousands of hours!
Most overated game I've ever. Combat is boring and repetitive. The graphics just are not up to par with other games now days. There isn't much of a story at all and the open world still left me with something more to be desired. It's certainly a game but I wouldn't call it a good one much less best of all time.
People who choose 0 are noobs that needs to git gud lol game is amazing with an awesome map and awesome bosses
The hype wasn’t invented it was earned, the salty low scores are hilarious. Like the other souls games though, these games aren’t for everyone and I don’t think Elden Ring is different really, It’s more accessible yes but a lot of people still won’t be able to beat it. If you couldn’t beat a souls game before this don’t get it. If you’re on the fence read all the negative user scores and give it a try. It will put into perspective how hyperbolic, bitter, and childish their “critiques” are.
The critics have got this one wrong. Elden Ring has suffered from timing. This was a game we needed during the pandemic not after, and a game that needed to be released before Sekiro – from which its gameplay is a downgrade; before the Demon’s Souls remake – from which the graphics are a downgrade; and far closer to Breath of the Wild - which it hasn’t fully understood desperate liberal plagiarism. Elden Ring, and it is disappointing to write this, feels much more like a large-scale fan-made Dark Souls 3 mod for Breath of the Wild than it does the next artistic offering from Miyazaki & co. It is difficult to pinpoint what, if anything, is actually new. The gameplay is a mirror image of Dark Souls 3 save for the guard counter, which is an easy and accessible miniest of mini-game versions of Sekiro’s poise system. The open world style of legacy dungeons and procedural dungeons is lifted straight from BotW - if only the crucial beauty of allowing the player to traverse anything and everything were lifted too, there’s nothing elegant about watching your avatar hop clumsily around a slightly too lumpy rock. Those reviewers calling this a new benchmark for open-world games can’t have played The Witcher 3 or Breath of the Wild. Sekiro proved that unique combat systems can not only exist but thrive within the broader souls-like formula. With Elden Ring, From have returned to the tried, tested, and frankly hackneyed. After the three-year wait one can’t help but be a little disappointed not to be enjoying the next step in the evolution of souls-like combat. While Link’s ability to climb or Wolf’s grappling rope are sorely missed when roaming Elden Ring’s open world, it is a deeper Dark Souls mechanic which most noticeably grates: loot. Almost every weapon you pick up in Elden Ring will be worse than what you currently have equipped because you’ve likely been upgrading that as soon as you possibly can to take on some of the extraordinarily difficult bosses. Imagine if, rather than repeatedly travelling back to vendors to sell most of what you pick up to keep upgrading your Uchigatana, you simply kept finding better Uchigatanas, or better yet a variety weapons that you could pick up and start slaying with. Wouldn’t this make slaying mobs in the wilderness more enticing? It frustrates to find an exciting bit of gear but feel that using it will **** your progress in the game as enemies will now die in four hits rather than three. A defence of this system may be that one is intended to replay the game using different builds. However, there is far too much repetitive travelling for this to be as limitlessly replayable as the Dark Souls series or Bloodborne. Perhaps Miyazaki has given birth to the golden cow of the souls-like and now needs to stop milking it. While Sekiro was a masterpiece that proved impenetrable for too many, Elden Ring is your favourite band selling out with a pop song that more people can enjoy but may well disgust a good chunk of the fanbase. The commercial angle is confirmed by the comically apparent involvement of G.R.R Martin, whose presence is mysteriously eclipsed by his absence. Elden Ring isn’t From’s best game, and it may well be their worst. What it is, however, is fresh souls-like content, which is always fun for as long as it lasts. After a long string of 9 out of 10s, Elden Ring unfortunately feels like a 7.
This game is the definition of fun, and addictive. I've sunk too much hours into this game already. I was a huge fan of DS3 and this game just feels like The best of the best of all the souls games. The only reason why i'm not giving this review a perfect 10, is because I played this on the xbox one and the frame rates at times were awful. Other than that, I have nothing to complain about.
This is the ultimate version of Dark Souls thanks to its vast and gigantic open world.
I give it a 9, but so many 0s... Need to balance out the trolls. 40 hours in!!!! I'm not a souls player. First Souls game was PS5 Demon souls! This is the best RPG I've played since Skyrim. Do yourself a favor and give it a play. The game can be made as difficult or as easy as you'd like. Want it harder? Go at bosses alone. Want it easier? Go find golden seeds and acquire more / stronger potions before encountering the first boss + bring in a coop and use summons (very easy to acquire). Once you figure out the game, you can vs the first boss with at least 5 potions at level +2. Have encountered 1-2 bugs, Nothing game breaking. The game has a great sense of discovery. I've made 3 accounts and have found new stuff in each account scouring over the same early region. There is so much to do and so many unique items to find. I get excited when I walk up to a new location and wondering what enemies await me? What rewards can I receive here? Can I find a new ally? Coop is really smooth. Wish you didn't need to collect an item everytime someone joins you, but it's a souls game... Only REAL complaint: Graphics do seem out of date and textures tend to fade in and out sometimes. This doesn't bother me because I care more about gameplay and how it feels rather than the "best possible" graphics. My "second" complaint. It would be nice if there was a journal that kept track of current quest lines that you've encountered. It doesn't have to tell you where to go to continue the quest, but at least something that reminds you that you had a quest ongoing. This isn't a complaint, but makes things a bit easier when trying to complete quest lines.
I was a bit skeptical at first, this being my first souls game and mostly unaware of the learning curve. Once I started to get the hang of the combat this game **** me in unlike any in recent memory.
As someone who never picked up a souls game. Who always plays games on normal or easy, this game shouldn't appeal to me at all . However from the moment I stepped into this vast world and fought my first enemy I absolutely couldn't put it down. Technical issues aside the world is beautiful , engrossing and begging for exploration. Not using any guides just figuring out the risk vs reward gameplay loop of fighting that higher level boss to get just a few more souls to level up . I'm hooked and love it. Being this is my first souls game I can see why maybe some veterans of the series may feel that at this point no much has changed and this game doesn't bring enough change they expected. But for someone new to the series this is an amazing , challenging world that must be played through . This is my game of the year so far.
Way overrated. It's the same dark fantasy stuff that we see everywhere these days, and that has become pretty stale by now. The open world is nothing exceptional either, it looks good, but there's no fresh ideas here.
Best game ever made, especially if you're a FromSoftware fan. Don't let anyone else tell you otherwise.
Having played all previous Fromsoft games, I can say with confidence that this is the best game from them to date. Outstanding world with freedom given to the player allowing you to explore the map, rewarding you while doing so as you find various items, lore. You're gonna fall in love with this excellent game, especially if you enjoyed other Fromsoft titles.
This Game is a Masterpiece and the best soulsgame ever. To everyone who gave this Game a 0/10 because of his difficulty **** okay, don't give a masterpiece a 0/10 because you get zero ****
Elden ring has Frame rate issues, also stuttering all the time even when I'm standing still, and I can't connect the game to my wifi, I don't know why but it doesn't work at all, even after the update, it's just like Dark souls 3 with an open world simulator
All these low rating r just players that r bad at the game or just dont understand from softwares formula of making games. All their games r trying to force u to take risks and discover things all on ur own to give u a genuine feeling of happiness when u discover a new thing or hell even beat the boss u have been stuck on for hours. So in all these low rating from players r all just people that r bad at the game becaude they cant beat a certain boss lmao
Absolutely mind blowing game! Massive open world with incredible enemies and boss fights.
This game exceeded my expectations. The open world is much bigger and richer than I could have expected. Exploring is as satisfying as the combat is challenging. This game keeps the challenge of Dark Souls that I became to love while providing a really vast and interesting world to explore. The already well tuned combat system got even richer with this installment. I have to add that the difficulty is higher than I expected as well. I feared it would become an easy cakewalk, but was happily surprised that the iconic challenge of Dark Souls games remained for this installment as well. The only downside I see is that solo hosts have to opt-into PvP which gives you a very hard time as a new invader. It should not come as a surprise that the graphics are good, but the focus lies on the game play. I personally really like the environments and stood in awe more than once, but the visuals are obviously not as good as Demon's Souls or other graphic focused current gen games. Overall a very good game due to the diverse combat system and vast and interesting open world.
This game is great. It is the best game made by the developer From Software so far. The open world is huge. The environment are beautiful and well rendered. The atmosphere and the music are godly level. For the first time we have a map, which on top is gorgeous. However this is a from Software game to its core. Difficult, sometimes unfair, story is there but you need to look for it. It is just not a game for everyone. I get the feeling that many people were expecting an assassins' creed or Horizon Zero down type of experience, and feel tricked because this is not the game they wanted. The criticism is fair and valid but should not be a reason to review bond and game that is very good. We can argue how much but anywhere from 8 to 9.5 seems fair to me.
One of the best games I have ever played! A Souls like Skyrim, I haven't had this much fun while playing a video game in a long time.
Absolutely amazing game that really satisfies your exploration and challenge needs. A clear contender for GOTY
Whenever I forget why I love the world of games, I play this game. GOAT without a doubt.
Don't believe professional reviewers. I played the series from Demon's Souls on PS3, there is not much changed. Everything about this game is outdated, with usually terrible controls for 2022, fight mechanics, interface, boss fight patterns. The only cool thing is boss designs. If this game would not have a badge of From Software it would never be given more than 5 out of 10 score.
I'm very disappointed with this game for not supporting Arabic , that's really unfortunate
I’m only 20 hours in, a lot of exploring, fighting various enemies, and sight seeing will be presented before you. A solid 9/10, a bug here and there, and of course the frustration of playing fromsoft games. Going into it, keep in mind that it’s meant to be difficult, but always surpassable, you just gotta apply what you know from ALL previous Fromsoft games.
An incredible game, many areas to explore, difficulty and decent artificial intelligence, worthy of being a souls, and I think it is the definitive souls
Co-op ****. I personally find souls games to be annoying (not difficult) but this one poses as a co-op then locks you out of co-op as you make progress. Could be better
I'm only 40-50 hours in but this might be one of the greatest games ever made, and is definitely From Software's greatest achievement to date!
Absolutely a materpiece! I'm with 30 hours of game and still didn't leave the first area, the world is huge with lots of bosses and hidden content! Cant beleave im playing a open world souls game! Its fantastic!
Nice game, but i preffer bloodborne or sekiro Maybe because i dont like the open world concept, in general map feels so empty, just trees and rocks, and a lot of mini bosses
I played it for 2 days now. Utterly disappointed. Controls are **** No story. No tutorials. Interface is disgusting and cannot equip my ammo. Hit animations are slow and you get one shot because you can't cancel them. Camera is weird and makes combat way harder. You cannot block and walk back I've never been more disappointed in a game
This was my first ever “Souls” game and it’s just amazing. It is difficult but totally doable and the world is incredibly rich. This is the game I’ve been waiting for for decades. Once in a lifetime game here.
Elden Ring is one of the games that directly grabs my attention. I had a lot of fun directly from the start. You really need to know your enemy's to beat them. Building the right skill set and finding fitting items is key for survival. The open world looks fantastic and it has lots of opportunity's for exploring. What should not be surprising, but sadly it is in these times. The game runs fairly well after release. I had no mayor issues or crashes. On my PS5 it runs a quite steady 60 fps, with sometimes a minor drop but it's hardly noticeable. Only the graphical assets could be tuned a bit. Sometimes you see textures like grass etc being rendered to sharper images.
this is the first game in years that gets a 10 from me. Dark souls turned up to 11 and they fixed all the annoying things about the previous games like giving restarts closer to bosses. The world is awesome and exploration feels so great that its on par with Red dead 2 or the witcher 3. Must have game for anoyone calling them selves a gamer. graphics are Dark souls nothing more nothing else needed, stop complaining. it runs a little choppy and inconsistent on ps5 and even worse now after the 1.02 patch 4 days after release.
Don't listen to these trolls. It's like skyrim meets demon souls. I would suggest a next gen system or decent computer though.
It’s great! The sense of adventure is at its highest in this entire game. Never knowing what you might come across is exciting and nerve wrecking.
It's Dark Souls DNA with a truly vast and dense open world and many more options to grow your character and level your skills before diving into the deep challenges of the story. It's incredibly addictive and fun. The only things preventing an unabashed "10" are the performance issues on PC (my PS5 is fine) that are being actively addressed with patches as I write this.
I don’t get what the fuss is about. No game is ever going to be perfect, free of bugs etc. If your complaining about the game this much get rid of it. I’m enjoying the game for what it is and having a blast doing so.
For real, to all the people who say "the graphics are bad", it's about the gameplay, and it makes up with it's art director. Oh also "The story is non-existent" yes there is, and it's also very deep, it's simply NOT thrown to your face like every other game. The world is full of secrets, items, NPCs and dungeons to explore, but you just want the usual waypoints and question marks on the map cause you're lazy. Go play AC Valhalla if you **** so much at videogames that you can't even explore without having your hand held the entire time, i am giving a 10 to counterbalance the bombing
Is Elden Ring "just" an open world Dark Souls? Yes. First lets talk about the dungeons and castles, generally speaking the close quarter areas. They are what you would expect from a like, many different paths to choose with many different and difficult enemies inside. Just perfection. Then we have the open world. The open world is OK. It is not bad but also not great either. You have some roaming enemies, some bigger and badder than others. The open world might throw some souls players off because they are not used to so much freedom. But this is the point that makes Elden Ring good. You WANT to see what is behind that corner, what is inside that cave, what is over there, the freedom From Software has given is amazing. Concluding: Elden Ring is a good game. In some areas, just what you expect from a Souls game, the open world might throw you a bit off, but the same open world can **** you in into the world of Elden Ring
I still remember when I played Skyrim first time, it was amazing seeing that rich open world, is one of my fav games of all time. But Elden Ring, oh Elden Ring, it is another level, it raises the bar for new games. This world is vast, dense, imersive, creepy, dangerous and beautiful. I'm over 30 hrs and only killed Godrick. Its an amazing and epic world.
Perfection! Its a perfect match of all soulsborne title in one beautiful world.
Just wow, as a souls veteran I can only admire such greatness, gameplay is flawless verticality feels fresh and rewarding, best bosses in souls history.
I am a huge fan of all Dark Souls titles. This game gives you the best aspects of all souls games and adds everything we have wanted moving forward. Multiplayer is smooth, the fights are rewarding , but the game still doesn't hold your hand. Amazing.
I liked Demon’s Souls back in the day and played Bloodborne, so I had an idea of what to expect from a soulslike game. However this game has been hyped all over the internet as more approachable than a typical From game, and has the added draw of having a “story” “written” by GRRM. There is nothing accessible or intriguing about this game. Having played other soulslike games only makes the predictable opening and tedious slog of looping through areas again and again feel tired and stale . The combat is much worse and less responsive than in other From games I played. And I felt no sense of wonder or excitement from exploration. As for the story, after a few hours in, I really was unable to discern what GRRM had brought the table. There was nothing worth staying in this world for. I just deleted the game. Total waste of money. Can’t even get a refund because I was dumb enough to buy it from the PSN store.
One of the best games I've ever played, I'm literally in awe on every corner and the feeling of adventure while exploring the Lands Between is unmatched. Congratulations FromSoftware on this wonderful achievement.
It's far from a masterpiece. Outdated graphics, poor optimization, simply not that great. I'd like to see reviews from journalists that aren't huge FS fans. This is a disgrace.
The trolls on this site calling this a bad game are so laughable. Literally can't stop laughing at these clowns. The game isn't perfect but it is undoubtedly a masterpiece. Sounds like the trolls like the hand holding that comes along with ubisoft-like RPGs. Git Gud **** and leave a honest review or don't leave a review at all.
well well where to start havent finished the game yet but as far as I progressed the game looks stunning with lots of stuf to discover, explore and much more this is one of the best games of all time and please dont look at some people give such scores as 0 1 or things like that thet bought the game just cause of the meta and didnt know whats this game is about they dont know soulsborne so yeah they do that
Beautiful, fascinating, amazing and artistic game in general is excellent in all respects
This is now one of my favorite games of all time. I started my souls born experience with Sekiro and moved on to dark souls 1, 2, and 3. Elden ring is a perfect combination of both and has exceeded my expectations in every way.
The best game ever!! Open world dark souls !! Yes!!! Dont listen to pc users
Best game for new generation worth evey diem atmosphere is breathtaking and game runs smoothly
How hard can I try to play this game ? That 's so **** stupid when we try to kill just a normal boss.
Still the souls games are weak from the narrative telling factor.. the world are fantastic however the game its not for all the gamers.. its too hard.. nice to try but its not a fun experience for the beginners..
It does not support the Arabic language and it is difficult Unclear tasks Old English used, you don't understand the last time I will buy from this studio .
VERDICT: As someone who's beaten every FromSoftware Soulsborne game enough times for it to seem like it's my full time job, I can say with certainty that Elden Ring is the best game they've made in the genre and arguably the best game ever made. I'm currently 50 hours in with an incredible amount of content cleared and tons more yet to be explored. It's genuinely mind blowing how a game of this magnitude, polish, and replay-ability was released only 3 years after FromSoftware's last game (Sekiro) which was also incredible. In an age of talentless TripleA developers pumping out unfinished and uninspired garbage year after year for upwards of $70 USD just for the standard copy, Elden Ring takes me back to the good ole days of paying $60 for a complete experience that does not need updates and will satisfy me for years to come. Granted every FromSoftware game since Demons Souls has been more than worth the price of admission, but this one is on a whole other level. This game has an enormous world that's never boring to explore, a staggering 80+ bosses, limitless build options, and near infinite replay value. Not to mention it has some of the coolest weapons, bosses, and most beautiful locations I've ever seen in a game. Elden Ring easily deserves the highest praise it can get with a 10/10 score from me and it sets a new bar for this genre and gaming in general that at this point only FromSoftware can top. The rest of the industry needs to take notice. This is how you make a game for the fans and not for the money. WHAT IS ELDEN RING? Elden Ring is a new game and new universe created by FromSoftware in association with George R.R Martin. It is the next evolution in FromSoftware's "souls" genre that they started way back with Demons Souls in 2009 on the PS3. It takes that classic souls formula of deep RPG elements, punishing stamina based combat that requires timing and patience to master, losing your level up currency upon death (in this case runes) and needing to retrieve them before dying again and losing them forever, difficult boss battles, bonfire checkpoints (they're called sites of grace in Elden Ring) that allow you to fill up on your healing and mana while simultaneously respawning the enemies, and it puts all these mechanics on an open world scale that is absolutely enormous. In order to explore the world at a decent pace you're given a horse soon after completing the tutorial area. This changes the way you play the game in many ways since fighting while on the horse is a more than viable option in a lot of scenarios even in it does take some getting used to. Do keep in mind though that there are some areas in which you can't use the horse, but that's ok because it's typically in areas that you wouldn't want to use it anyways. Elden Ring also has countless builds, weapons, armor, and abilities that allow you to play the game in so many ways that you probably won't get to use everything for a very long time which makes it great for replay value. One final thing to note about this game as well as the other games in the souls genre is that they are not easy in the beginning. These games are notorious for their difficulty which is true to an extent. If you are unwilling to learn from your mistakes and adapt then this game will probably be too much for you to handle. It will test your patience and awareness early on and if you are willing to get better, it will only be a matter of time before you're taking down the baddest of bosses and wondering why you ever thought things were difficult in the first place. I will have a section at the bottom that will include ways to get better if you're struggling so be sure to read that. IN RESPONSE TO NEGATIVE REVIEWS AND FRUSTRATED PLAYERS: I felt like making this section in hopes that new players and people who are giving up on the game early can read this. Elden Ring as well as the other games in the souls genre are not unfair, they are not impossible, and they can absolutely be mastered to a point where it's not even a challenge anymore. I see a lot of people just get mad, quit, and either stop playing entirely or write a negative review saying the game is bad when in reality it was their own fault. They were either unwilling to learn from their mistakes or the game is just not for them. Neither of which make the game bad. Here is some general advice for those of you are struggling and find the game to be too difficult: 1. Learn an enemies moveset before going all out on attacks. If you know when an enemy's attacks/combo ends, you know when to get a free hit. 2. Don't be greedy. Always try to get at least one-two hits in and then wait for the enemies attacks to finish. 3. Summon help if you need it. You can either summon NPCs for certain fights, spirit ashes which let you fight with NPC mobs of your choosing, or real players. 4. Farm runes for levels. This isn't the fun way, but every bit of extra damage helps.
50 hours in, still only beat 2 main dungeons. This game is so dense with content, filled to the brim exactly the right ammount of content a open world should have, despite trying so hard to hide it all from you. The game is as a friend that i was playing with said"a screenshot generator". Absolute masterpiece.
Download this game yesterday. I have to admit that the whole game is a masterpiece. HOWEVER, there is no English version in this game in ASEAN area. This problem is really frustrating for me and also for other players. I hope Bandai Namco and Sony can address this issue soon enough. Thank you.
This was the best game i ever played, because of the bosses, enemies, open world and combat.
I managed to keep myself spoilerfree (very difficult to do), but it was so worth it! Exploration is amazing and the sense of accomplishemnt of finding hidden parts and beating so many differnet bosses is great! Game has a subtle way guiding your way if you find yourself lost. Game is difficult, but not in way I find frustrating. Game has lots of items and ways to use if help is needed. I had some little technical hicups, but nothing major. 9.5/10
Very Awsomee Great atmosphere exploration feeling amazing fighting mechanics Legend is the most incredible game I've played in years
FromSoft proving once again why they are in their own league right now - Miyazaki is a true genius in every sense of the word
Awesome game, a bit hard but it's a From Software. GOTY 2022 and more sure !
After playing nearly 70hrs of this game I've had to downgrade my 10/10 **** was good for 40hrs. Handled like Darksouls, few nice mechanics, nice world. The last 30 have been like pulling teeth. The game is cheap. At over level 100 I'm getting lambasted for stupid reasons. Bosses just instakill you as you walk in. I've found the same bosses at least 4 times and still have another few instances of the same fights to go. The controls often just do nothing when buttons are pressed. And while I'd love to stop I need to see the end as I've spent so much time on this. Miyazaki. Stick to 30-40 hr games and don't pad your next one as badly as this. Bit of Balance too, particularly near the end would also be nice. It gets 4, 1 for each of the first 10hrs of the game I enjoyed.
Elden Ring is exactly what all we need, a huge open world, souls like and is entertainment with a lot of content
Magnificent! A fantastic open world game with amazing world building from the master himself, George RR Martin. And yes, I do see a difference, even though Fromsoft have been amazing at worldbuilding before as well. The immersion is reeeeaal.
The frame rate is bad in the performance mode. Rock solid 60 fps is mandatory for such game where your reflex plays first role. I do not understand why you have released it knowing how it works…
Simply put, this is the ideal game. For souls fans and gaming in general. -Top tier gameplay -World design -enemy encounter design -art style -world building -narrative -exploration -gameplay -level design -bosses The only thing it needs is better performance and it is easily the best game of all time.
Fantastic world with Very nice gameplay and story There is a few problem but its not so important to prevent you from playing this beautiful game.
Listen. The children that **** about the graphics are out of their minds. Firstly the game is gorgeous to look at and a joy to explore. From software (the developers) always focus on the story and gameplay first then graphics second. And let me tell you regardless of what the young freaks here are saying it is a great game to experience if you consider **** or aspiringto be one. Either way, you should see for yourself. Go on youtube and search for gameplay and form your own opinion. For me this is an easy 10/10 all things considered. Also i solely made this to counteract the review bombing.
One of the best games I've played. It's like dark souls plus breath of the wild!
It's massive and yet it always distills quality. Insane level design and open world. Constant surprises. Dreamlike artwork.
Rubbish! bought this game on PSN HK. No where in the title says (Chinese /Kor) like other games with language lock. Only has 1 Elden Ring version (alongside Deluxe). Bought it, lo and behold, the game only gives you Chinese interface! WTF? On PSN the description of the game is even in English! Why the hell then is the language not included in the game that they first described it with?
Its ok but that's all it really is. Its DS3 but with more build customization basically. So if you just want the same old Dark Souls but more content you'll be satisfied. But it isn't nearly as innovative as the press and streamers have made it out to be. Cons Combat hasn't taken any steps forward its still L1 Spam or R1 spam no real combos or varied movesets like Nioh has for example. Enviromental collision/obstacles is terrible with enemies reaching through whole walls and pillars as it always has been. Frames drop pretty consitently during combat even on framerate mode. But hopefully that'll be a simple patch here soon. Not enough boss variety to fill the open world. They use many of the bosses 4 or more times throughout a single playthrough. With one of them being Asylum Demon from DS1. I mean come on we already had to fight him 3 times in that one 11 years ago now another 4 in this game?! Poise still ****. I don't want broken DS1 poise where everyone havels but there really is no point in heavy armor if even hits that do almost no damage can stagger/stun lock. Pros Atmosphere is the best its been for a souls game. Actually a decent number of NPCs to meet and have minor roles/quests with The new customizable flask is probably the best part/innovation. Map & fast travel is an extreme improvement but I can't give them major credit for something that's been a feature in other games since 2005 lol. That should have been a thing already.
Anyone giving this game a bad review is a filthy casual unworthy of it's glory. This game is not for everyone, but for those that have willpower and an appreciation for art. Easily one of the best games I've played.
Seriously guys? This is not a new franchise whatsoever. This is everything in dark souls pretty much reused under the guise of something new. It feels outdated and clunky. Go play Horizon to find out what a brilliantly done open world game looks like cause Elden Ring ain't it.
Reviewbombers should be ashamed of their entire godforsaken bloodline. Bombing because it's too difficult, bombing because this or that language option isn't available and finally the lowest of the low, scum of the earth, humiliation of their mother's reproductive organs: the ones bombing just because it gets a high score. You're all salty loners with no gaming skills, go find another hobby and leave this game to the REAL gamers.
Must play ! Another break through after Sekiro ! Fantastic open world for player to explore.
Dark souls 4 - a very typical souls game, with impossible difficulty, crypted story (to hide a bare presence of any) and dated graphics. For those who have no life, but endless time to fight this boss again and again and again and again.
Best game of the Year for from software's games fans , on off the best history games
From Software has taken everything they learned in developing their Souls series and it has culminated into a true masterpiece on a colossal scale. So many open world games have huge, yet sparsely populated, maps. Elden ring places another enemy, another interesting ruin, another demanding dungeon around every corner. It’s all the exciting exploration of this generations best open world titles paired with the punishing yet oh so satisfying Souls combat, and even that has been enhanced and perfected here.
Elden ring might be the most beautiful and detailed game world I've ever seen. Everytime I thought I saw all it has to offer I tuned a corner or went down a long elevator to a whole new area spanning out into the distance that I had no idea was even there. You can tell the world is hand crafted and not procedurally assisted by a computer program. Every little thing seems to have it's place and you don't see a lot of repeating assets or structures, everything was designed and put in place with a specific intention. It's the same amazing quality with the open world encounters, they all feel unique and each one feels new, not like most open worlds that have their world filled to the brim with cut n paste instances of the same 5 or 6 mission types and a map filled with quest icons leaving nothing as a surprise as to where and what you'll find. Fromsoftware deserves praise of the highest order for this masterpiece, I've never played anything quite like it. It's a souls fans dream come true the way this game was made, secrets everywhere that most people will miss and never even know was there without looking up a guide. Tons of enemy types, hugely varied environments that manage to blend perfectly, tons of bosses and mini bosses, super addictive progression mechanics like usual for them, it's a challenging game that doesn't hold your hand. It makes you earn your progress and earn secrets, it doesn't just hand it to you with a checklist of chores to do that takes you there. I dont use this word lightly but this game IS a masterpiece . Nothing is perfect but this is as close to perfection that I've seen in my 3+ decades of gaming and at this point it's probably the all around best game Ive ever played. Btw, FromSoftware, you guys are f Gods and all developers should model their games after yours. New gamers, If you want your hand held through everything, do not buy this, but if you want a rewarding experience that may be tough and frustrating at first but if you stick with it you will be rewarded far more than you can imagine and understand why the hype from the cult fanbase is so rapid and this dev is becoming so popular and loved. Like in the matrix, no one can be told what souls fandom is, you have to see it for yourself and it must be experienced to understand. If you make it through any of their games you'll likely be a convert for life and know why no one wants big shanges to cator to a wider audience. If I can play these games anyone can.
I bought two copies of this game so I could play co-op with my sons. It has been fantastic. I've played past Dark Souls games and they often ended in frustration when you got sick in a particular difficult boss. The open world is a great fit that allows you to do other things when you are stuck and continue to make progress and come back when you are ready. There are some clunky things about the co-op but it is SO much better than earlier Souls games and with the sites of grace being more prolific it is much easier to coordinate and join each other. I love being able to use the horse to get around the world so much faster. While the mounted combat feels solid and well thought out rather than an after thought. There are several improvements that just make the game work better. Even the summon system is a great way of helping a solo player compete in some of the harrier areas. It is also a visual masterpiece. I've caught myself pausing several times to just take in the scenery and appreciate the artistry that is everywhere in the game.
Elden Ring is one of the best game ever made. It has everything. Great combat, beautiful landacapes, a great sense of exploration plus a brand new (sensazionale) mithology and, as From Software usual, great boss fights.
Hard，Annoying，Smart map design ，Fulfillment from the chanllages. It's an ultimate Dark Soul like game. Needing a long time to adapt if you haven't touch Dark Soul like game.
A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need A massive content that i didn’t know that i need
This game is a joke. Bad performance and outdated graphics. You can't thrust any reviews anymore. This game brings nothing new to the table and after playing horizon fw it feels like a trip back in time
This game is fantastic. Some reviews giving it a zero say the open world is dead. They are wrong. There are so many glorious things hidden away that are easily found. Its just so good. Overhyped some say? Its honestly better than I was expecting. If you don't like exploration, then maybe its not for you. I will be playing it untill my fingers bleed and my controller breaks between my hands. Its sooo good!
The game does everything that we have loved about Fromsoft for decades now. The open world setting is fantastic and creates a whole new level to approach the game from. Gameplay is still great. Runs much more stable on PS5 than it did on XSX for me but hopefully they is patched. Still has frame drops. I think they could have developed a new engine and really look forward to the next project taking the lessons learned from Elden Ring. A must play for Fromsoft fans and hopefully a great introduction for new players.
It has a little disappointment with the early optimization issue, but except for that, this game is just a masterpiece. Definitely 10/10. Elden ring is not that difficult actually. If you face an enemy you can't beat temporarily, just go somewhere else and return later.
Me nor my brother have ever played a souls game in our lives yet we both fell in love with it instantly
Best Souls game ever!!!! The open world idea worked really well. Good job fromsoftware!!!!
I have been playing since the release date. Initially, I enjoyed exploring the open world; it was thrilling, and I appreciated the creativity. But after some time, it feels lonely and repetitive, and you don't know where to go. And the cherry on top, the same cat boss three times in three different dungeons. Come on from-software have some creativity in different bosses: very confusing upgrade mechanics and no information about the recommended level to defeat an enemy or boss. The story is fragmented and feels like TLOR modified to encompass into the game—disappointed with G.R.R.M. However, I might finish the game once the guide is available.
Absolutely magnificent game, it truly would have deserved a 10 from me if it wouldn't have been for Bandai Namco, which, in 2022, still language lock the game and playing with Google Translate isn't much of an enjoyment. Spent a couple hundreds of dollars for the collector, couldn't have been more hyped to play, and as a foreigner in Japan (Happening to all SEA btw), I can just go *bip* myself apparently, this is unacceptable and shouldn't be happening nowadays. I truly hope From Software never partner with them again.
one of the best open worlds and games in all the videogames history. Masterclass.
This game is simply a masterpiece. It sums up all of fromsofts developing and brings it together to make a brand new experience.
An experience that marries the intensity of From Software's previous games with an open world that regularly leads to moments of wonder. Dark fantasy may never have been done better. There is so much to see and so many surprises that it truly boggles the mind. Anyone familiar with a From Software game will find many of their signature staples in abundance, for better or worse, but mostly for the better. They have tried to trim the most annoying excesses while maintaining a high level of challenge for those who wish to seek that out. Going into too much detail would spoil things, but suffice it to say those of us already deep into this game are still only scratching the surface. With so many places to visit, enemies to battle, and playstyles to experiment with, this game is more than worth diving into ASAP.
Exactly what I was hoping the game would be. Absolutely incredible. I may be biased because of the thousands and thousands of hours I’ve spent in the soulsborne game but I truly do consider it a masterpiece. If you like souls games and wished there was a version that was open world, well look no further here it is.
I have never played any of the Souls games before, but being a connoisseur of RPGs and hearing of this supposedly legendary RPG series I felt it was time I finally bit the bullet. I figured with Martin penning the game's story it would be rather grand involving political intrigue and riveting tales of man's inner folly. Having grown up on D&D and CRPGs I expected to have a fair idea of what I was getting into. Much to my surprise, I found a vast open world filled with nothing to do. I created my character to wander around some lifeless void. Oh, it looks rather grand the art direction is quite phenomenal though the textures muddied and the game is plagued with pop-ins as well. I am able to forgive the occasional jank for a good and true RPG. I however did not find one in this game. I'm not sure what constitutes for an RPG these days amongst the general public, but generally it's a game with roleplaying options of which this game seems to have none other than building your character's stats and skills. All problems are solved through this game's languid, ponderous, and clunky combat. No non-combat or social options in this supposed RPG. The exploration as as dull and lifeless as the world in which it inhabits. Some scant crafting materials to create some mediocre items with minimal stat gains. Undoubtedly the usual carrot and the stick seen in the MMO sphere influenced this trash itemization. The dungeons were quite interesting and a more linear experience and I killed Margit after ten or twelve tries. The game's molasses combat was made even more frustrating due to the various technical issues that plague this supposed RPG (Hint it's not an RPG it's just combat pornography) Your character's hitboxes are far too large causing the enemies to strike you frequently when you're clearly outside of their swing radius. There's also numerous frame rate drops making the game's sole feature of combat extremely difficult since the technical execution of the developers lack of talent is holding you back further than the difficulty of the game is. All in all this game is not an RPG, there are no roleplaying options. It's just combat pornography for the youth's violent **** sadist rituals. If you have any class avoid this buggy mess like the plague it is and cast it into the fire! I for one got a full refund from my local gamestore, but I hope to save others the expense. We all know this game doesn't deserve a perfect score. Roleplay 0 out of 100 Music 20 out of 100 Story 0 out of 100 Gameplay 0 out of 100 Don't let reviewers beholden to the gaming industry cheat you hard working folks out of your money!
Do not listen to the review bombers who have barely played if not played the game at all. I am absolutely in awe of this game. 30 hours in and the game keeps surprising me with how much quality content it has. I swear FromSoft finished this game a long time ago and just kept adding more and more to it. The world, weapons, magic, enemy design, map design(dungeons, castles, underworlds etc.), NPCs, dialogue, voice acting etc. There isn't enough you can say about this game. We do not deserve this game as it is a cheat code for the greatest game of all time.
Best Game fromsoft The map and secrets are amazing, it feels familiar but better Excelente Game, can't miss it
This game is incredible. Everything from the world design, art style, combat, story, voice acting, item design, sound design, and feeling of progression. Elden Ring is truly one of the best games ever made, and for me, it sits right next to Breath of the Wild as one of my favorite games ever made
Dont trust the haters and the review bombs lmao. Elden ring is amazing 9.9/10 especially on the PS5!
Elden Ring is the best game I have played in at least ten years, maybe ever. Gameplay wise it is exactly what I expected and wished for. It is the combination of every good gameplay aspect of earlier souls games. You can roam freely in an open world in which every region feels and looks immensly different from the other regions. These regions are filled with content as well. I have come back to earlier regions and almost always found a new dungeon or a new npc. While not every small corner in this world is filled with items or general secrets, you still get rewarded for exploration, but in a slightly broader scale than in the earlier From Software titles. Now performance: This game is currently being review bombed by people for multiple reasons. Mostly the performance on PC. It is only day 3 so I am certain that these issues will be fixed soon, especially with a company like From Software, who is always trying to listen to the community. Nevertheless, these issues do not suddenly turn this beautifully breathtaking game to a 0 points. Do not listen to these people. Whenever a big majority of people enjoy a game, other people start hating on this game because they want to be different. Please do not let yourself be influenced by them.
Yeah, that's it. We ate at the peak of gaming. This is it. It's all downhill from now. Elden ring is, with the lack of a better word, a masterpiece. Don't play it if you like skyrim, button mash and hack-and-slash games. This game is harder than you can probably handle. The game also does not hold your hand, at all. It's your adventure and your own path into becoming an Elden lord.
One of the most dangerous game after dota. Cos it takes all of your time.✓✓✓
I don't like it there's better games Fromsoftware over hyped! For sure I like Sakiro & Bloodborne & Souls before this.
An absolute Gallon of Milk. This game is the perfect mix of Bloodborne, Dark Souls, and Sekiro style combat systems that perfectly capture the difficulty while making it fair and far more fun.
Simply Incredible! 2022 GOTY easily! FS has brought together all the best elements of their IP into Elden Ring
Don’t read reviews of people **** about frame rate or graphics. They only care about those things and not the true experience of the game. This game is a masterpiece through and through. It feels like a real adventure. You can go anywhere you want. Yes it’s difficult, but it’s fair, and you can always go and do something else to level up and then come back and take care of business. This game is a game changer!
Amazing game with some issues that keep it from a 10 in my book. Bought the PC version on day one. Unfortunately had to refund it because it was a horrible port, controls were all labeled with PS version and it was very difficult to try and configure it to do even basic commands. Once I was able to finally play it the performance was horribly on a 3090 / 5900x. Ok no sweat I thought it was a port. Purchased it on the PS5 and it runs smoothly other than these few issues. Control lag at times, inconsistent targeting, some monster damage can go through walls. The major on was a 4+ hour of game time lost when the PS5 crashed.
Git gud or die trying I really don't see the point of people unwilling to learn the core gameplay mechanics going on here and review-bombing zeroes, please just go play Genshin Impact instead. You bought the game willingly, it's really nothing to whine about.
Incredible, simply a masterpiece, if you like the saga it is a must have, if you like how to handle the new era of open world it is still a must play, they can fix the pc issues.
This is AWESOME, AMAZING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. PERFECT!!! Everywhere is adventure point.
Elden ring is a phenomenal game, the level of freedom reminds me of breath of the wild, such as having unrestricted access to the open world (with minor exceptions) this all leads to a game where you truly don't know what will happen next as chests and teleport you across the map and large underground caverns can take you to brand new areas way before you should've been there. But the place where elden ring shines most is the combat. The gaurd counter move adds so much to the core gameplay and can help you turn the tide similar to a parry. Overall i would highly recommend this game for any die hard from soft fan's
Most overhyped & overrated game of all time! Have you played any Souls games? It's the exact same thing. The game cheats & unnecessarily frustrates you; there's no story, as usual, so not sure what George R R Martin has done in this collaboration. It all depends on repeating the same sequences and building muscle memory, but you know what I would do instead if I had so much time? I would learn to play an instrument and leverage muscle memory for something useful, not this nonsense! Graphics are dated, the gameplay is the same nonsense from 15 years ago and it's buggy as hell! If Cyberpunk had to be punished, how on earth this game is getting away with it?
Absolutely addicted to this game. This en captures the definition of adventure. The discovery of events supports that. And the action to land ratio is near perfect. Now some people say it is hard to know where to go in comparison to previous souls games. Which imo this game does not lack in that aspect. This game tells you where to go in many ways. For instance npc’s tell you critical information. If you for some reason don’t talk to npc’s ever. Then the sites of grace will tell you where to go on the map. This game’s art design is stunning. The overall game is the best game I’ve ever played.
the game meets your expectations thanks fromsoftware dark souls 4 good difficulty It is a challenge Accept
This game is a huge GARBAGE, I had played for 16 hours where I got to level 40 and this stupid game delete all my save data. It is simply inconceivable in this generation that such BUGS occur. FromSoftware you should be ashamed!!
First off, I just wanted to start off by saying the people who claim the graphics in this game are bad don’t know what art style is I guess. Although there are most definitely hiccups as far as pop in goes, the game looks absolutely stunning. The biggest addition that really makes this game easier to enjoy is how charitable from soft is with checkpoints this time around. The most time it’s taken me to run back to a boss is about 30 seconds and those instances are few and far between which makes dying to hard bosses way less frustrating and tedious. All things said, Elden ring is an amalgamation of all from soft games so far thrown into an open world which feels as dense as it is wide.
THIS IS THE BEST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED! I would suggest not comparing it to other open world games as it creates a very different feeling from most if not all open world games. Instead I suggest going into the game with a blank slate and enjoying the adventure know that it's okay to make mistakes. and learn from them.
Definitely is the best game I've ever played. FromSoftware thank you for this masterpiece!!
If I could I would rate even higher. What a game! I am in love with it. I recommend a lot.
About 80 hours in as of this review and the game is phenomenal. Absolutely my new favorite game ever. The world is vast and beautiful, the bosses are better than ever, the gameplay is first class (especially spells, major improvement over past fromsoft games), and the world is so incredibly rich with lore. If you are a fan of Soulslikes, this is the closest you can come to the perfect game.
Best game experience ever! Noob in this genre but proud I beat 20 bosses already :D like a lady!
The best of all from games put together! Beautiful environments and great combat
I'm 30 hours into the game and it is fantastic. It is challenging, yes, but Elden Ring gives you more options than previous FromSoft games for mitigating that difficulty - from just going off and exploring another part of the world until you feel ready to tackle the challenge, to summoning 'spirits' that aid you in difficult fights. The world is gorgeous, the enemies are well-designed, there are tons of great weapons and spells to play with, and when you reach a 'dungeon' area, it is laid out like the best classic Souls locations. The second dungeon area, (the Academy) plays like a perfect melding of Yharnam from Bloodborne and Irythil from Dark Souls 3. There are a few *minor* technical problems with the PC version on launch. People giving this game 0 out of 10 because it doesn't support ultrawide monitors are just being ridiculous. There's a bit of minor frame stuttering when the game loads new assets, but this only happens occasionally and never during combat encounters, and i've encountered a few minor bugs, but none were game-breaking and I expect all to be ironed out in patches within the next month or so. I'm 30 hours in and I feel like I'm maybe 1/3 of the way through the game. It's breathtaking in scope and incredibly fun to play. I'm giving it a 9 rather than a 10 because the open world does sometimes feel a bit less unique than previous From games - it is definitely influenced by BOTW and Skyrim - and because of those minor technical hiccups. But absolutely fantastic game and a must-play.
Just amazing how they manage to keep it stupid simple and so complex at the same time! A real chef d'oeuvre
Very pretty but after a while you feel the world is silent and alone, often feeling like a fantasy MMO with no other people playing. It's not that the game is bad just the world while surprising at times is often very quiet. It also seems to be a large map of "lets see what's over there and can I kill it?" I'm not sure what exactly is says about a game that the community is more concerned with finding leveling exploit spots than discussing the game it's self. If you like a constant string of challenging combat this will be for you. Everyone else? It's okay to explorers their is a lot to see. Anyone who likes a game to give you an explanation of how things work and where things **** will not find that.
This game is very boring and mediocre.Controls are really bad,animation too. From the beginning on,you have to grind a lot to be able to beat the bosses,it is just stupid. I really liked DS1 and 3, but in this game everything seems random and generic. There are hardly any real goals to achieve,you are just wandering around without sense and reason, waiting for the next enemy horde to slaughter. I really cannot understand how this game could get such high reviews,maybe it's a pandemic spread of people just having lost their minds over the last years.
No way does this game deserve a 97 critic score, pure madness. Very poorly optimised, it runs better in ps4 then ps5 ffs. Graphics are outdated, demon souls remake looks way better then this. Controls are jank. The game doesn’t even track your quests. You have to literally write it down in a journal to reference , I know the excuse is that it’s for pure immersion purpose, but honestly come on, that’s rediculous. You can’t pause the game either. What if I need the toilet, will I just crap myself, or go toilet come back and I’m dead.
I am not a big open world fan but this is one of the best games(not just open world) I have ever played with insanely fun boss and gameplay
Gameplay...Dark Souls at it's best. If you love Dark Souls, then this is hands down a W. Atmosphere and world design is superg, art design is great, horse combat actually kinda fun, combat engaging and challenging. 60 hours and it's like the game that keeps on giving. Cons: lazy cut and paste assets, mechanics such as jumping could be improved with a climbing mechanic, combat is a bit samey from other souls game, albeit more refined. For all it's success, I find it disappointing that From can't improve on their graphics. Clippings, outdated animations and assets, half-ass textures, , AI can be nonexistent at times. All that said, Dark Souls blood runs deep and if you're a fan, then it's easily the masterpiece we've been waiting for. I really hope scores less than a 7 gets removed. Even not a fan, this game deserves nothing less than a 7 for it's size, scope, breathtaking fantasy vision, replayability and sooo many hidden gems. Fantastic game!
Ignore all of these terribly made negative reviews youre seeing. This game is a masterpiece and I highly suspect the majority of them are from people who have struggled to get past the first boss alone and have been stuck wandering the beginning areas of the game. The world of Elden Ring is expansive and lively, from countless enemies around almost every corner to 83 bosses in total, 77 of which are completely unique from one another, to the huge amount of NPC’s both hidden and in plain view for you to interact with. Elden Ring is the totality of everything From Soft has learned over the decades of making the Soulsborne games and put them all together for both veterans of the series and newcomers to enjoy. This game however is not for the faint of heart, you will grow frustrated with bosses or enemies at points, that’s a staple of any Soulsborne game and that’s what brings so much enjoyment out of it when you finally overcome that boss you spent an extended amount of time on, just to turn around and get knocked back down by the next area of enemies or bosses. It’s a rollercoaster ride of pain and excitement all at once. That’s not even going into depth on the sheer amount of lore and Easter eggs that are hidden in the game. My only knock is that sure there are some technical issues here and there and the graphics aren’t the best we’ve ever seen but the issues are nothing patches to the game can’t fix, many of these issues are already being looked into by From Software as well. Moral of the review is that this game is worth every single penny spent on it and will bring you hours, days and possibly even weeks of enjoyment, pain, excitement and frustration in all of the right ways on just your first play through alone.
This is quite Literally the best game I have ever played. The open world is sprawling with life, every book and cranny is filled with something cool to Find. The mini-dungeons are a little same-y But not to an extent i found detrimental to the games overall enjoyment. The minibosses, although sometimes recycled added a lot of enjoyment, and sometimes Even more challenge than major bosses. You can Tell every area apart just from looking at a screenshot, the color schemes are different and varied to separate them. The orange/yellow altus to the blue liurnia, the reds of caelid. The performance was mostly 55+ fps, worst drops happening in altus to maybe 45. A few small fps drops here and There Dont deter from my enjoyment either. Frames never dropped during bosses either. The enemy variety is frankly impressive, say compared to breath of the wild(Another great Open world game). The jump button allows for a verticality in fromsofts world design and torrent helps with traversing huge swathes of land while taking in the scenery. This game is truly the first time Ive experienced ”If You can see it You can go There”. The bosses are all a treat. Margit is a great first boss, teaching players that This game Isnt going to go easy on you. I can genuinely say that there isn’t a single bad boss, compare it to say, Dark souls 2 where basically every boss except maybe knight alonne is pretty bad and not memorable at all. The ashes of war is one of the best new additions to elden ring. The freedom it gives is a great addition to increase build variety. Mash all of This together and You get one of the best games of all time. I genuinely cant Think of any issues other than performance at some points.
Ignore the review bombers who probably haven’t even played the game, the game is stunning. The world is a joy to explore and is absolutely massive, also the art is simply stunning. There is 100’s of hours of content too. Yes It’s challenging but if you get to a really hard part, you can either summon co op help or go somewhere else and comeback later when you have better equipment and have levelled up your character. Amazing game and I can’t fault it.
A very big adventure to become the Elden Lord. I came into this game very new to FromSoftware games and at first, It was very hard and I almost quit. After playing for about ten more hours I got used to it and now it is addicted. This game is very challenging and might take gamers that are not used to these types of games much longer to become the Elden Lord. I find myself dying and recollecting my ruins so much doing each playthrough. I think even if you're not great at these games that you might find something to enjoy about it. For me, collecting ruins and leveling up until I am strong enough to beat a boss is pretty fun. The graphics for this game is very beautiful. The framerate is very good in performance mode with some dips. It really feels like I am in a dark and twisted world. Overall, I think that this is the most fun I've had with a game in forever. I highly recommend it.
This is what happens when a Fromsoftware game goes mainstream, it gets review bombed. This is probably the most mainstream Fromsoft game to date, as I have many friends who have messaged me about the game who normally don't even consider these types of games. That's great, because I love seeing this community grow and many more people will be drawn into these games because of Elden Ring, but I don't think some people really understand what they are signing up for. I have about 40 hours into the game, and I can say that if you are a Fromsoft fan, this will be heaven. World is engaging and full of secrets, progression and builds feel personalized and unique, and the bosses are top tier quality. I personally have not experienced framerate drops, but I know that it is an issue for some players so keep that in mind. Everything about the game feels nearly perfect. The combat is fun, the world is engaging, and I've had a great time playing with some of my newer friends just messing around in The Lands Between. The only con (minor) I have of the game is the size of it can get confusing, which tbh is nothing new for a Fromsoft game, but because of Elden Ring's sheer size, at times I can go like an hour not finding anything and have to resort to a guide to figure out where to go. Overall this game is fantastic and deserves all of the praise (unless you are experiencing technical issues but those will be fixed). The main reason for the review bombs are new players coming into the game expecting it to be something like GTA with swords. It's not, it's a Fromsoft game. Stop crying about the first boss being too difficult and actually try to learn the fight. The first Fromsoft game you play will be your hardest, but thanks to how popular Elden Ring is, there will be more than enough people ready to help you on your journey. Trust me, if you are persistent enough, you will overcome the challenges of this game and feel like a badass, but hey if this style of game isn't for you, then it isn't for you. No harm done. Just for the love of god please don't take it out on metacritic.
This game is pure perfection , I feel a sense of excitement every time I wander around its huge map . The feeling of discovery is priceless, honestly , I have no idea how from software could do something better than this for future games
Definitely lived up to the hype! The world is so easy to get addicted to. The game lets go explore and find more about the lore itself. Of course with this being a fromsoftware game, it is very very challenging. I find there to be a beauty to that. Use your eyes and learn how to defeat each boss or enemy you come across. Also, being a massive Berserk fan, there are tons of little Easter eggs, weapons and gear that pay homage to the great manga. Becoming one of my favourite games ever.
Awesome game with incredible art design. The world is simple gorgeous. In my humble opinion, the best game I've played so far. And this is not a small achievment, cause it putted Breath of the Wild in second place. For people who thinks to buy it because of hype, I'd recommend doing a little research about what a soulslike game is, because it is a challenge game and people could get frustraded sometimes (often to be fair).
The culmination of all previous soulsbourne games. A must play for those who enjoy tight, challenging combat and exploration. Art direction is immaculate.
It's a beautiful game with awesome areas and cool enemies but imo the combat is crap. It's slow and clunky and mostly its just dying a bunch until you understand the enemy patterns and there's alot of recycled bosses as well. Don't get me wrong It's a good game just completely overrated. It's absolutely no where near a 10
Most of the negative reviews have nothing to do with the actual gameplay or story. I understand frustration with frame drops and technical issues, but I've seen plenty of people giving the game a 10 even with experiencing the same issues. This game is absolutely phenomenal. As someone who has played and beaten most of the souls games multiple times, this is a dream come true. An open world dark souls just makes so much sense. Every game rewarded exploring, and this does that times a million. A vast and punishing world, where if you're getting stomped by a boss for a few hours, you can leave and explore a new area to gain more runes and level your character/weapons. And on the way you might find a new weapon, or armor set. Maybe a golden seed or sacred tear to upgrade your flasks. Then you can go back and beat the boss. In all the other souls games, you'd have to farm souls for hours, but this makes it possible to not do that, while it is still available if you want too. People are frustrated with boss mechanics and timing, but I've actually enjoyed overcoming some of this. They definitely changed some of the timing in comparison to ds1 through 3. I've noticed some of the bosses have crazy long swings that are at first hard to navigate around when used to the quick movements of most of the previous game bosses. I like that they made it more accessible in some ways for new players, but made it even harder in other ways for souls veterans. At about half way through the game, I can easily say this is up there for the best from software game, and one of the best open world games of all time. Oh and there's a mount, enough said 10/10
This is basically Dark Souls 3 in an open world. All mechanics are the same, i.e. outdated. Sekiro was a good step forward: deflections, "hesitation is defeat" and so on - great game, 9-10/10. People had high expectation, Mr. Miyazaki said that ER gotta show good graphics to keep up with Demon's Souls remaster, and he delivered. But graphics and level design are everything this game has to offer, sadly. I also suspect that story will unfold in an unexpected and exciting way. But it's hard to just sit there and play when gameplay is exactly what you've experienced 6 years ago. Speaking of open world - it simply doesn't work. It's empty, 95% of it is just decoration. It's okay with me, as I said - level design (emphasis on "design") is good. But you find yourself riding a horse 90% of the time trying to explore a world that has little to offer - some loot, various mobs and occasional NPCs, mostly merchants. There are a lot of "bonfires" that connect together a dull emptiness of the game world. I rate it 5/10 for labor being done properly but without any imagination regarding game design. Horse is overpowered. Just ride in circles + L1/R1
The game itself is amazing i dont wanna spoil anything to you guys but all i can say that this is the ultimate souls game especially the questlines and bosses
Masterpiece!, hope they fix the fps drops on pc soon, but even with that it's still a 10.
I'm 60 hours in and in love with this game. I started way back with demons souls if you are a souls fan you will absolutely love this game the open world is so dense its filled with so many unique weapons and armor to find not to mention the rework of spells and faith feels truly amazing
After reading many reviews that stated this was THE game to try out if you didn't enjoy Souls games, I can confidently confirm that is a blatantly false statement. From the little time I have spent attempting to play a Souls game in the past, Elden Ring feels pretty much the same. The odd, washed out and dated looking graphics, the little messages players leave behind, the difficulty of the enemies; it is all there. And I will try some more, just as I did with Dark Souls, 1, 2, 3 and Bloodborne, but I am fairly confident I absolutely hate it. Elden Ring mechanics and visuals are like an early PS4 game. I don't think I will ever get why these games are so popular.
I know that the game seems to be getting review-bombed from some people for "poor graphics" and performance issues, and while there are some minor performance hiccups on PS5, the art design, open world, and atmosphere are amazing and this game truly lives up to it's hype. I've put 25 hours in three days and this game is constantly giving me huge surprises and is one of the most engaging open world games I have ever played. Give it a shot, it's worth it!
After playing 50 hours, I can say that i still have a lot to discover, the gameplay is really solid with a lot of different ways to confront any situation, the story it's such a complex drama with a lot of political, lovecraftean and magical aspects, you can feel the tension between all the many different npcs, everyone is trying to use you, or taking adventage of the situation to reach their own goals, they feel really alive, and at the end you'll have to take a decission, very few games can manage to create that feeling of weight on your decissions, now, all that is complemented with a brilliant world building, the lore is really deep, and it truly makes you question some aspects you see, just to discover later than things aren't like they seemed at the beginning, that there's more dept into it, about the audiovisual aspect, it's excellent, some people may complain that there isn't 16k textures, that demon's souls remake looks better, would have been better if it was done on unreal and stuff, can't blame them, but all that is eclipsed by the art direction, the game has an unique asmoshpere, it's truly beautiful, the draw distance is huge, and everything you see, you can go there, and truly, the map is **** big, and all that, done without loosing the art direction quality, there's a place that you get teleported after "x" chest, and when you see it, it's just beautiful, the music causes so many feelings, from the majestuosity, to the melancholy of the place, the scale of everything, makes you feel that your character is in a odissey, soemthing to take note off, is that Elden Ring is a way different than any other from game to date, it's a dying world but, it's a way more alive than any soulsborne to date, and the feeling you get through playing makes you feel heroic, rather than sad or melancholic, the music helps a lot on that, there has been a really clear evoltion on how they composed the music, it works to give you that feeling of heroism, to defeath your enemies and become the legendary Elden Lord that everyone has told you to become, this game will be very subjective for a lot of people, in summary, the game is amazing and causes a lot of feelings on the player while more this one gets involved into the story and the world itself, if your major complain is just the graphics, then you should go for any other deadworld game with beautiful 3d models with not personality, with hundred of things telling you to pick this or this, just being guided like a sheep, and i don't blame them, but imo, the game is a masterpiece, has been years since i've seen such an alive world, with so many content, that gives you so many freedom, and with such a rich story and such a beautiful world writing, as videogames developer, is something that I would aspire to reach. About the preformance, IMO, any problem is eclipsed by what i said before. It shouldn't be the standart but fromsoftwer managed to get a special place on my heart, and i'm sure that a lot of other souls players will feel the same, how From changed their lives in some way, it's something that not any company can do.
This gotta be the most overhyped game of all time. I wonder how people find Cyberprank bad and this piece of game-dev "amazing 10/10 goty must play". The game has so little to offer even though it has open world. Nothing amusing, worthy or at least a little various. Mobs, mobs, smaller mobs, bigger mobs, bosses - that is ALL. Absolutely no evolution from the first Souls game in terms of gameplay and mechanics. The most annoying part is that bosses and mini-bosses don't react to your actions whatsoever. They just do not care what you are doing. They got hit? Who cares? You blocked their attack? Nothing. It's like you don't even exist to them, so you are just playing with yourself really. Hot overrated garbage in my book. The only good part is graphics and the world design.
I've spent about 7 hours on this game. Whilst there are a few performance issues here and there on the PS5, the game generally runs quite well in performance mode and it looks absolutely stunning. The world of Elden Ring is very beautiful. It's a game for Dark Souls lovers, ou won't be disappointed.
This isn't even a real review of the game (which is phenomenal). Just trying to drown out the crybabies.
Another masterpiece from FromSoftware and this is their biggest and most ambitious yet.
It's a Souls game. If you've never played one before this might not be the game for you. Don't complain it's too hard, if you think that go try Sekiro and I'll hear your whining. This game is amazing, so much to do and explore but still feeling like it's rewarding for beating the soul crushing bosses. Just the way it was designed! I've got like 30 hours in and can't wait to get back to exploring. Good luck, Tarnished!
Not sure what I was expecting. Something else besides dark souls: open world edition.
Subjectively, I understand how Elden Ring can be ****'s a punishing Soulsborne game that can beat players into the ground. It's a game that's simply not for every gamer and I question just how much more "accessible" it really is. Objectively, Elden Ring is the pinnacle of gaming and possibly one of the top 5 open world games ever made. No, there aren't vast villages and towns with shops to explore littered throughout the world. Instead, there are hidden NPC's, bosses, dungeons, enemy encampments, mines, abandoned churches, numerous areas, numerous secrets, etc. It's very different from your ordinary open world fantasy game, but done in the best ways possible. Ultimately, it's hard to find a "weak point" with Elden Ring, other than to say it won't appeal to many gamers. I have not, for example experienced any of the technical issues, and everything else (as stated by other reviews) is perfect. Gameplay is amazing and hitboxes are fixed. Dungeons and Legacy Dungeons are brilliantly done. The open world is varied and begs to be explored. Bosses are difficult, but co-op is back and better than ever. Customization is nigh infinite. It is a brilliant game with brilliant pieces. Although, one that not everyone will enjoy if they're not up for the adventure.
The game is too hard. I have a full-time job, I don't have time for this. I don't understand how a niche game like this can be praised so much. Some people don't want to waste their time.
Completely addicting. It’s my first From Software game and I was worried about difficulty, but the open world format really eases the player in. Love the world, it is absolutely huge in many ways. Not not empty either. The game encourages you to wander, explore, then stumble on some ruins, a cave, or even mini bosses. It also runs great on the PS5. Not locked 60 fps, but the drops are never drastic.
People who are hating on the graphics in this game are missing the point. The world building and aesthetic are amazing, so many reasons to explore every corner, and the combat is the best it's ever been. Too many newcomers to the souls series going in expecting breath of the wild, getting killed over and over and deciding to review bomb the game because they're not capable of putting in the effort to find the payout. It's a bummer, honestly. I'm loving it, and am extremely satisfied, especially given the hype.
Buddy told me to check this game out I used to play some action games back on the PS2. Not really my jam these days, but I figured what they hell why not. Let me tell you this is no God of War. Booted this game up thought it looked okay, kind of like an old 360 game, but whatever. Must be a good story or something. Speaking of story I guess other than the one eyed girl and the crappy cutscene there isn't really one. Figured since it had the Game of Thrones writer on it it may be cool, but I guess this is the reason why everyone hates the damned show now. He must not be very good, probably another SJW propped up by the hollywood elites. Dodge mechanics are pretty clunky and don't seem to work quite right.. Seems like your character's hit box is larger than Nancy Pelosi's slush fund. Clipping seems to guarantee that the enemies kill you through walls and rocks and other crap, but you never seem to go through them. I presume it's some intentional feature to create a faux sense of challenge to the game. The alternative is that the programmers lack the technical wherewithal to pull of what they're striving for. Now that I think on that though it's probably the latter with the number of bugs this game has. Frame rate drops are pretty harsh and consistently occur on boss encounters. Maybe it would have been a cool game if the story was any interesting or if the developers were worth a lick, but they seem to be reaching for the stars when they can't even grab the dirt off the floor very well. Play God of War any of them and hard if you wanna play a real good game. I'll be taking this back to gamestop and telling them the damned thing is broken to get my money back because it's just awful.
Absolutely incredible. A Magnus opus. A true game changer (pun intended). Gorgeous world. Open world souls game with seamless co op what more can you want!
This game amazing! 12/10 PS5 is stable, the world is huge and beautiful, I was waiting for dark souls in the open world, I got better than dark souls in the open world! thanks to the developers for keeping the dark fantasy aesthetic alive!
OoooooOOoooh Elden Ring! Hot tamales what an awesome game. Greatest game I’ve ever played. Playing on PS5. Does the frame rate drop by a couple frames here and there? Sure. Does it at all impact my experience or enjoyment of the game? Hell no.
All the game is such a fantastic and magnificent adventure to see, the only (bad thing) is the popping
Boss fights are not as impressive as Dark Souls but everything is great, game will be Game Of The Year 2022
An absolute thing of beauty, the pinnacle of everything FromSoft have achieved to date, the best art direction I've ever seen in a game. Take a glance over some of the user reviews (who suspiciously have only created an account to trash this game! perhaps it scored much higher than their favourite run-of-the-mill garbage and that upsets them?) and you'll also see that this is a game that's managed to make so many people in this user reviews section rage, presumably due to lacking the patience required to see something even moderately challenging to the end. Remember: nothing worth doing is easy, skeleton!
I'm not sure why this game gets such perfect scores from review sites, but since you can read the positives everywhere on the internet even when you're not trying to, let me detail some of the negatives about what is effectively Dark Souls in a brighter environment. You can't pause. Let's say you have an actual life, like your doorbell rings or your child starts screaming or anything else that interrupts you - no pausing, even if you're offline and playing solo. It's 2022 and we're going to give a 10/10 to a game that you can't pause when you're playing solo? Absurd. The graphics aren't great. They're good, but not great. Certainly an upgrade, but nothing exceptional. And the entire UI looks like it's still the original Dark Souls garbage. They even seem to be using a ton of the same sounds. It's like they reused as many assets as possible to avoid having to actually create something new when creating a new game. I appreciate more tutorial-like encounters to help ease you into the world, but the tutorial section is optional and "hidden" behind an obtuse message that should have just ended with "go here for a tutorial". Basically adding the ability to be more user-friendly without explicitly being more user-friendly. I was expecting way better from the story given the involvement of George RR Martin, but no, it's just as **** and mostly non-existent as any other Dark Souls game. And the writing of the dialog is super cringe most of the time. For context, Witcher 3, which is vastly superior to this game in almost every aspect, received a lower overall score with fewer perfect scores in all. Yet Witcher 3 is more suitable to a multitude of play types and difficulty levels, still has better graphics than this game does despite a 7-year release gap, great dialog and voice acting (overall), an amazing story with wonderful side quests, and you can pause the game if you need to. The only reason I can imagine for this game getting so much critical acclaim is because there's some weird hard-on that the gaming community at large has for Dark Souls. It skews opinions and even rejects common sense at times, in favor of worshipping Dark Souls despite everything that is obviously dated and ill-fitting to a modern gaming experience from a big-name studio that should definitely have the budget and expertise to produce better.
Dont lissen to the review-bombers, the Game ist fantastic! having a really good time here
Elden Ring is, as the critics are saying, a masterpiece. I think FromSoftware still has some improvements they could make to the way their multiplayer works, but it certainly is unique and the audience FromSoftware has spent the past 13 years cultivating seems to generally like it. It's just a bit unwieldy and difficult to grasp at first. But, as with all things, practice makes it much easier. Beyond that criticism, there isn't much I can say against Elden Ring. It's open world is full of interesting and unique encounters. As you progress through the game, it constantly throws curveballs at you, so that you never quite know what to expect. The combat is fun, action-packed, and exciting. It also requires forethought and planning - this isn't a hack'n'slash game. It's an RPG. The graphics look great. I'm seeing people say "the game runs terrible on PS5." I have a PS5. I haven't seen anything "terrible" about the game I've been playing for the past 40+ hours. I've been playing it with friends who have PS4s. I've heard exactly 0 complaints from them about any aspects of the game's graphics. The art design is also spectacular. FromSoft really knows how to make an enemy that you see and immediately think, "$#(@! I really don't know if I even WANT to fight that thing..." Likewise, the music in the game really sets the tone of the world perfectly, and it amps up considerably during memorable encounters. The story is very interesting, but it's told in a sparse and subtle way. If you have played FromSoft games before, you know this. If you haven't, you've probably heard it before. It honestly shouldn't be a surprise if you do literally ANY research into the game before you buy it (which you should always be doing - don't buy a game you know nothing about and don't buy a game based on a single trailer you watched on TV). The narrative is very open and freeform. It doesn't give you a questlog. Instead, you must actually LISTEN to NPCs and deduce what it is they require of you. There are no markers on the map telling you that "the finish line for the side quest is here." I encourage anyone who likes RPGs or open-world games to check out Elden Ring. Do some research on FromSoftware games if you've never played one to find out if this is an experience you'll enjoy. This is the most accessible that a FromSoftware game has ever been, but that still doesn't mean everyone will like it. Before you take one of the reviews that gives this game a 0 (which is, frankly, insane) seriously, be sure to check the poster's review history. Chances are high that they either made an account purely to give Elden Ring a 0, or they only give 0s to universally beloved games because...I dunno? I guess it makes them feel original or unique to have such an "edgy" viewpoint? I can only assume, after reading most of the 0-4 rating reviews, that these people have not played the game much, if at all, and/or are just bitter that other people are happy about a new Souls-like game when they've never enjoyed FromSoftware games.
I have played all the souls games and i think that Elden Ring is the perfection of all.
Incredibly enjoyable experience, new to souls games, never played one before, and honestly don't understand what people are saying it's too hard for. The challenge is fun! The game isn't overly hard as long as you don't make stupid mistakes and think through your actions
Simply the best open world game in tears, is like Skyrim, Zelda BotW and Dark Souls mix the best of their worlds together. Anything less to that a 9 for it is coming from a tasteless, bad at the game player... If you get good you'll see why it is a 10/10
Please just listen to the game critics and not the user reviews. There are so many negative reviews by angry Horizon Forbidden West fans because they are mad that Elden Ring stole the spotlight, and it stole it rightfully so. Every single criticism of this game is invalid other than the FPS issues, but FromSoftware is going to fix that soon. The world is breathtaking, the graphics are good (despite what the HFW fans are spamming in the reviews), the gameplay is fluid and perfects what other games in the series have not. The story is more immersive and accessible than any other Souls title. The world is the most accessible as well, because if you’re stuck on something you can go literally anywhere else on the gigantic map with so much to explore. All character builds are viable so you can do anything you want and be successful. Accessibility is only an issue when you’re obstinate and try to rush through the game without paying attention. I can’t believe there are so many 1 and 0 reviews this early into the game’s release. I’ve logged about 30 hours so far and I know the people critiquing this game have either never played it and are HFW fanboys or quit because the game posed the slightest challenge because they can’t pay attention to the great amount of help and hints the game gives you. This game is a verifiable 10/10 and absolutely has lived up to the hype. I cannot wait to see what else this game has to offer.
This Game is just awesome! You can spend so much time in discovering the World!
Rare 10 out of 10 for me. It is still a FromSoftware Souls-like, so if don't expect something EASY even if it's EASIER than others.
Masterpiece! the best game of this years , giant everything is giant, fromsoftware sign the best open world . Goty is here
Definitely not a 0, nor a 10. Much like with Breath of the Wild, you set out and create your own path in a vast open world. No map riddled with markers and points of interest. It’s up to you, the player, to figure out and unfold the game world. Because of this open world design, you can avoid enemy encounters and when you meet a hard boss, you can fall back and prepare for your next confrontation by defeating a variety of enemies (both small and big) in the open world to level up your stats and/or gear. Unlike Breath of the Wild though, Elden Ring doesn’t do much in terms of changing the true and tried combat mechanics of the Souls games; for better or worse, depending on how much you like Souls games. Personally, I’ve tried multiple Souls games like Dark Souls, Bloodborne, Sekiro and most recently Demon’s Souls Remake. Out of that list, only Sekiro stuck with me. I feel like Sekiro nailed the combat mechanics best and the grappling hook made traversal fun. In that regard I wish Elden Ring played more like Sekiro than Dark Souls. I can’t help but compare this open world design to Breath of the Wild and because that game did it so well and came out in 2017, I’d hoped it would take more inspiration. Not being able to climb, or glide down high terrain feels like a step backwards. Such a huge open world should be easy to traverse. Of course you can fast travel to previously discovered ‘Sites of Grace’ and you can summon your trusty steed at any point in the open world; but discovering new places and figuring out how to get to landmarks far in the distance, is more frustrating than fun. On top of that, the game doesn’t have much interactive ways to play around and experiment with in the open world. It is there where the game falls short for me, as the journey should be as fun, or maybe even more fun, than reaching the destination. All of this takes away from the immersion, which makes me wonder if the open world is really just a way for new players (like me) to take away some of the intimidation that comes with the Souls genre. Then there are the performance issues with framerate, on every platform and regardless of how powerful it is. It feels disappointing, because this game deserves (and demands) to be polished. Just like the lack of interaction in the open world, it takes away from the immersion. There have been better games that could’ve been used as an inspiration for this game, by other developers AND by FromSoftware themselves. I understand the disappointment many players feel and I think this game will be very divisive for Souls veterans and new players alike. As I said before, I tried multiple Souls games and only Sekiro stuck with me. I’m not blind for all the missteps and issues Elden Ring has, but I keep wanting to get back to playing the game. The option to retreat and prepare for the next confrontation has eliminated the intimidation I’ve always felt playing Souls games and for the first time I actually enjoy getting my ass handed to me, only to return later to exact my revenge with my newfound skills. It feels extremely rewarding and over 30 hours in I still feel like I’m making progress, without worrying about the end destination. Although I feel like Sekiro had better combat mechanics and that Elden Ring should’ve taken more inspiration from Breath of the Wild in terms of traversal and interaction with the open world, I thoroughly enjoy my time with Elden Ring. Being able to retreat to the open world from difficult enemies, to prepare for the next encounter, takes away a lot of the intimidation and stress I’ve always felt playing Souls games. The technical issues with the framerate are a shame and will hopefully be resolved in a future patch, but they are not enough to refrain myself from enjoying the game.
It's a great game, totally recommended, I see that many people give it a low grade for performance, but in my case I didn't even notice it, highly recommended. The map is huge and incredible, the landscape is very beautiful. There are too many different weapons and builds. FromSoftware's best work.
Video games are my greatest passion. My #1 hobby. For 20 years I have loved and cherished and immersed myself in gaming: It is my favorite thing to do, it is a huge part of who I am as a person. Elden Ring feels like the culmination of all those 20 years. Elden Ring is the very definition of adventure, curiosity, risk, reward, failure and success. Every square inch of it begs to be investigated, pursued, clawed at and uncovered. It is the essence of what makes video games worth playing. It defines the medium in such a way I've never seen or felt before. I don't say it lightly: Elden Ring is the finest video game ever made. It is everything this form of art can provide to someone willing to take it on. An unrivalled masterpiece of action, adventure, RPG structure, level design and enemy design. It is perfect.
This Game is the Dream for all Soulslike Fans. When I read the Negative Comments I see that a lot of These People never Played a Souls Game before. If you love Souls Games, you will love this Game. If not don't play it, because it's to hard for you and you will have the hardest time of your life.
Incredible game! Pretty much the best FromSoftware game so far! The open world is beautiful and not empty, the enemies and puzzles are challenging, the customization is better than ever! I know some player, especially on PC, had problems with graphics and performance, but on PS5 the game runs perfectly clean. 100% recommended even if you're not a soulslike fan.
I never play souls games but this game is incredible I think it will be the best game in2022 iplay 8 hours and I can’t stop
The game is an absolute masterpiece ! Having played all previous souls games, i can say so far, this is best game FromSoftware has ever made. I am very critical of today's games as there are too many mindless shooting or hack and slash games out there that have no substance and get boring very quick. You won't find that here with Elden Ring. 10/10 all that way and dare i say Game of the year.
A extremely Amazing game, that has immense difficulty for the newer player to Souls game, But bring a amazing standard to Souls Gaming that hasn't been ment before, Give it, it can be frustrating at the beginning, but once you get though the world opens amazingly well, with a vast open world with many secrets and dungeons to explore with a wide variety bosses. Class building is surprisingly at one of it best states since Demon souls, with a such a vast choice option that any build can be viable with time and effort. Armor cosmetic could leave much to be desire but make up for it with the mix matching style, but more then make up to it for it weapon system and balance. Despite it low amount of bosses the replay vaule is extrememly high with the vast choice building of builds. Storywise, leave a bit to desire, but make up for it with it indepth lore with the sub characters, allowing for your imagination to run free with what your tarnished back story!!! overrall a amazing game worth your buck!!!
One of the best games I played in a really long time definitely a must play 100% must play
I was hopeful to play this game here in asia but what already happen is this game is region lock. I know it is my fault not checking everything but can you blame for being excited to play this game since critics gave it a 97 score here in Metacritic. All I ask is to update the game where there is no region lock for us here in asia using HK accounts. I hope from Software is working on this issue.
This is my first time playing a souls like game and at first I must admit I found it difficult and obscure. Despite that I could tell this was a well crafted game and I knew a little persistence and some research would be needed to fully understand it. I am so glad that I did persist because as my understanding of the game grew so did my intrigue and desire to continue exploring the vast world and now I'm fighting all sorts of enemies . 6 hours in and I'm fully hooked and find myself regularly planning what I am going to do on the game when I get home from work. This game has become the inspiration for my procrastination. I can't wait to see what else is out there in this meticulously crafted fantasy world.
Hate to use the word lightly but this is everything FromSoftware has learned over their older titles and merged it into one amazing open world and words can’t describe it… I don’t see how they will ever top this. Game of the year 2022
Great game, cant praise it enough. pc 1080p runs very smooth with similar specs to the recommended specs.
A masterpice, an epic adventure, thanks fromsoftware for this game and hope there will be a sequel .
Never played a souls game but this looked interesting and now I’m so addicted to it! Follow me on twitch and FB @derpwithouthope currently streaming Elden Ring
Probably the most outstanding game I ever played, from world building to gameplay, graphics and soundtracks. Camera can still be improved.
One of the greatest games of all time ! Everything is pure perfection! The epitome of all the years that they created this genre with . Perfection ! Perfected ! Thanks from Software
This definitely a move forward for the souls genre, I would recommend this game to players who like souls type game, because this is not a easy game to finish if you’re not into hard difficult games. Having said this the game is not perfect like everyone keeps making it out to be. On PS5 the frame rates aren’t stable which is important in a souls game to be able to time your dodges and attacks. Also enemies sometimes get stuck in the environment where you can attack them not sure what causes that. All on all it’s a must buy for souls lovers. Not trying to be a fanboy, but this game is not highly 90’s game maybe in the lower 90’s it Has problems and doesn’t deserve that high of a rating.
no game play, no story, average graphics. Why is this game being considered game of the **** folks are out of your minds!
There's about three Dark Souls games worth of content wrapped up in one game. The open world is a joy to explore. If you love Dark Souls then this might be your perfect game.
FROM Soft games has always been know for their difficult but mostly for their "japanese" minimalism. Worlds reduced down to their bare framework - the sense of dreadness, of being hopeless lost in a almost impossible quest. Hope never emerges in Dark Souls, their NPCs destined to die or become hollow. NPCs have few words for you, and the ending which is never a end, just the restart of an eternal loop of despairing and suffering. I played DS for many years. And I was expecting, hoping that this pureness would be preserved in Elden Ring. Instead, I just spoke to some woman who wants me to deliver a letter. Another one was looking for her husband ? Not sure anymore, as I'm not sure what I'm really doing in this game, beside galloping around, collecting flowers and occasionally face some monster. I guess Im supposed to do something but whatever - is more fun and rewarding just to scavenge around as the next shiny item could be just past that rock. And this is the first issue with this game. The second one is what I call "artificial difficulty". For some reason some 10 minutes into the game (following the beam guiding you) you hit a boss which is probably good for someone level 40 with well-upgraded weapon. Lets take DS for example, or DS2 / DS3. The first bosses are level-appropriate, doable with a unupgraded weapon, fairly slow and easy to read. Here we deal with a multi-combo jumping spinning area-of-attack as large as ever devil. In DS this would have been a mid-game boss, where you already are familiar with the game and have elemental weapons and so on. But Elden Ring expect me to run around to look for a good weapon, upgrade it, level up some 30 times before I can have a chance. So the game does not do a good job telling you "yor are underpowered" - specially as you can stroll by most of enemies to hit the next resting place. So we have now underpowered users sitting in front of a monster boss. And here lies the 3d Elden Ring Problem. While in the past summoning help was the equivalent to "help me", this time summoning someone makes things worse. Bosses have more health, do more damage, and the limitation in matchmaking to just be able to summon someone around your level means there are now two underpowered users facing the beast. With the usual deadly consequences. The problem here is mixing the old formula of similar-level to matchmaking with the open world. Soons the users will be spread on such a large level range (also weapon level counts in matchmaking, and there are 25 levels), that coop will become almost impossible. It is still a good game, specially if you play solo. But the magic of the old "jolly cooperation" is sadly no more there.
Best openworld feeling since a long time, without generic trash 10/10 absolutely incredible game
If you are a fan of FromSoftware games and open-world RPGs Elden Ring is a dream. This game doesn't tell you what you NEED to do. You do what YOU want to do. Go where YOU want to go. | highly recommend starting this game as a Wretch and not watching 100 videos about how to optimise the first levels or get the 'best' gear. Starting in this way makes the experience even more rewarding than it already is. You don't start with weapons that are already better than the first things you find. Everything is valuable, you adapt the way you play based on the things you find. Compare it to games like Valheim or Runescape, you start those adventures with nothing, you get stronger as you explore. If you are struggling on an area or boss you can leave and return when you feel stronger instead of feeling like you are required to do it like previous FromSoftware games. You will know when you aren't strong enough to proceed. The first time you die to a boss, your first thought might be is this is literally impossible... 20 deaths later when you have learnt most of their attacks and he gets to half health you begin to believe. Then get hit by a second phase which makes it seem even more impossible. 40 deaths later getting to the second phase is now a cake walk and you wonder how you ever doubted yourself. Then its just about learning the rest of the mechanics and believing in your skills with a controller or M&K. Finally when the boss falls... an overwhelming sense of accomplishment, and hopefully a huge item upgrade. This is why Elden Ring is so rewarding and everyone who loves a gaming challenge as well as an awesome adventure through a brutal, unforgiving and mysterious world should test their skill and attempt to become.... the Elden Lord.
It's a 9.5 for me. This game gives me the same chills that Zelda Ocarina of Time gave me in 1998. The world is designed in a way that your curiosity is constantly challenged. No need for a quest log or anything, you just need to be curious and you'll always be rewarded for it, wherever you go. The gameplay is a super well-tuned dark souls. I have spent 27h and only reached the second area of the world. This game is massive. 9.5 for instead of 10 due to the small stuttering and the texture popping on PS5 that are annoying enough to break the immersion, but I am confident that this will be fixed by updates. This game is a masterpiece, can't wait to finish it, and play it again.
This game takes the best elements of Dark Souls and Breath of the wild and is still better than the sum of it's parts.
Not often do I come across a game that makes everything seem refreshed and new. Elden Ring gives you a reason to spend countless hrs in its epic open world. Every boss battle feels so rewarding, this game deserves GOTY and every other accolade it receives. I applaud Fromsoftware and there dedication to give you the best possible experience.
The game is ugly, the textures are disgusting and the animations are outdated, it looks like a game from 2010. I don't understand the hype, and the art direction is super cheesy. People have crappy taste from what I see.
One of the best games that I've ever played - this is the only open world game that constantly surprised me through my whole playthrough, it felt like every 5 minutes there's another crazy area, enemy or mini-boss to fight. The combat is satisfying and more complex than the Souls games, the world and art style are beautiful and the difficulty is addicting. I love this game!
Oh, boy another buggy triple-A release. I mean I guess it's to be expected that the same slobs at IGN/Mattyplays/Gamespot/Whatculture/etc that spent 2 or 3 years lying to the general public about Cyberpunk couldn't be trusted on this game either, but I like so many others fell for it. Story is virtually non-existent they were happier than hell to plug George R R Martin's name all over the marketing materials, but I'm not sure what he did. About as much work as he does on his own series I'd surmise, which is NOTHING. You get what amounts to lore dumps on scrolls and flavor text on items passing as a "story." There's no major narrative structure. The "revolutionary" open world is hollow, lifeless, and boring. I've seen more intriguing open worlds in PS3 games. Speaking of PS3 games that's basically what you're getting here in the visuals department. I guess the AAA industry is so exhausted from bribing publishers and youtubers to give them good scores they don't even bother with the graphics anymore. Art direction is however stunning, seems to be where they spent most of their time. Gameplay is seriously bogged down by numerous bugs and technical issues. Frame rate drops, save crashing, stuttering, janky animations, clipping errors, you name it this game has it. I guess all the 10/10 reviews are based on where the game will be in 2 years once they fix the bugs? That's some optimism for you! Story: 0/10 Graphics: 5/10 Gameplay: 1/10 Technical issues -2
Such a disappointing release. Too overhyped for a long time which makes it a real shame.
not bad game but its just another dark souls but this time open world :| + fps droping anyoing
A true masterpiece. I thought the hype about how large the world was probably just that, hype. But i'm blown away by how beautiful and absolutely gigantic it is. Clearly a generation defining title, from the combat, to the emersion, challenge and exploration - everything is a delight.
Is a masterpiece, best souls game and most complete game. All negative critics was a try to bombing this awesome game.
Game is outstanding, almost 30 hrs in and playing performance mode I've had no crashes on ps5. People giving 0s to this game are just proof that not all opinions are valid.
The game is not as inventive as critics say, and the graphics and performance aren’t satisfactory for an AAA game in 2022.
This Game really is amazing. But playing it on PC makes it hard to fall in love with it. In every moment it just gives you the feeling that they dont really cared about the PC port. Not having Widescreen support in 2022 is just one of the smaller problems.
Bandai Namco marketed this game in Arabic language on the Middle East region yet there’s no Arabic language in the final game didn’t except to rate a game I’m hyped for since it was announced a 0 because of the false marketing!! such a disappointment
It's funny that this game has only 51 reviewes but Horizon has 114! If more people reviewed it, its score wouldn't be this high! It's the same **** and there's nothing new! Even the sound effects are the same! Same boss fights, dungeons and... Miyazaki is totally overrated!!!
Best Open World Game Ever. Not the story but gameplay mechanics and design is absolutly outstanding. PS5 Performance Mode runs smooth for me. Graphics is not state of the art but good enough. And it is a little bit easier than the other souls games. Lots of secrets not so much copy pasta like in similar open world games.
Amazing game . Solid 9. Fix frame rates on ps5 it will be a 10. It lags just a little but not enough to put me of and that will be fixed soon with a patch I'm sure . Amazing world to explore and a good challenge. Ignore the 0 ratings. They get kicks out of putting a good thing down
Excellent game. Its everything they promised and more. The people crying about fps drops on Pc are vastly exaggerating and the game got review bombed by haters. Dont trust the score.
This Game is Amazing on ps5. No bugs no crashes it was a fluent and fantastic gaming experience
The best soul game ever! Open world is awesome, will spend more than 100 hours on it!
A punishing but absolutely joyful experience. Genuine masterpiece. Don’t expect Breath of the Wild. Expect Dark Souls with horses
Too good to be true. Just best souls-like game ever and perhaps even one of the best games of the year
This game is a masterpiece! Sure for now it has some not so stellar pc performance for some people but the game is absolutely amazing!
Great soulsborne open world game! I have played all of these games and I typically get frustrated after a while and stop playing but Elden Ring keeps me coming back.
Alot of pathetic, insecure clowns that never played thr souls games in these user reviews. Its one thing to critique it based on performance, but most of the rest is jargon. No wonder they shut off same day user reviews on this site. Its because of u sweaty clowns. U like souls games? U like masterful open world game design that puts all others to shame? Get this game. Its the game of the gen by FAAAAAAAR. Botw exploration in a shadow of the collosus open world with souls architecture, atmosphere and art design. Oh and all the best combat features of all the other games. Have fun!
Graphics Andies review bombing it. Just doing my part with a deserved score
The game every Souls fan and open worlds games fans looking for, a huge map with a lot of bosses, enemies, dungeons and there is something to find and explore in every corner Elden Ring is a must to play game without doubts
**CONCEPT/9** Open world Dark Souls with increased everything, lore, size, weapons, combat options, bosses, enemy types, the list goes on and on. Personally, I wish the story was told in a more traditional way instead of the usual cryptic style of storytelling from other FromSoft games. **GRAPHICS/8** Beautiful design and art. Unimpressive framerate and it looks just like Dark Souls 3 at times. **SOUND/10** Amazing music and voice acting. The ambience overall is incredible. **GAMEPLAY/9** You have so much freedom to do what you want that you don’t have to take on any bosses if they are too difficult. The beginning of the game still doesn’t tell you much but once you get through the initial hours, the formula and layout of the game will become clear. I felt the game was too big and open at times with not enough interesting things to do and see in each zone but the zones themselves are designed real well. I also wish there were more secrets hidden in obscure spots within the zones. **SUMMARY/10** The game is a brilliant way forward for Dark Souls games. It’s one of the best open world games I’ve ever played.
The openworld is so fun to explore - kind of like Breath of the Wild. Everywhere I go I find something new to explore. The story is a typical Dark Souls Story - so dont expect something new here. The only slighty annoying thing are the little bit outdated graphics of the game - but let's be honest FromSoftware games never had the best graphics and their games did not not get famous because of them.
Imagine the entire Dark Souls 1+2+3 but 50 times bigger and 5 times more good looking. The story is complicated. The gameplay is hard but rewarding. The open world-ness is on per with Botw.. The background music does not distract you from combat and bosses move in rhythm to music. I haven't finished the game and I already think this game is the best game of all time. Only reason it's getting negative reviews is that it's too hard for casual gamers and because people don't have a good enough system to play the game due to chip shortages and scalping.. Because of Covid a lot of casual gamers are joining the gaming community but this game is made more for hardcore gamers.
Game is a masterpiece. Aesthetics, music, gameplay, atmosphere, customization that no other game could ever dream of.. Everything is top tier as a full AAA game should be. Don't pay any attention to the user reviews, people just love to hate nowdays. Theres no way to rate this game lower than 8 even if u hate the franchise. Its very sad because user reviews here used to be good. People rate the PS5 version 0 because PC has frame problems..! Seriously no one should take Metacritic user reviews seriously anymore, just a cesspool of angry mankids. A must play for dark fantasy fans.
The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite! No Arbic language ! There's No reason ever let you to not adding our langueag Respect us
Super good game, i think the bad reviews are people expecting too much and receiving less than expected it’s like DS3 but with more customization, Fromsoft isn’t known for graphics so that should even be considered they are known for gameplay and it’s great as always. The open world isn’t empty this is a open world DS game not Skyrim 2, there isn’t gonna be a lot of side quests compared to other open world games and should already be expected, people expected open world and forgot the DS aspect. And either peoples consoles are just made bad and outta luck or they just hating and trying to give more hate I get almost no frame rate issues other than teleporting to a place then it’s drops for a second or 2 then that’s it back to 60
The low user reviews are silly. Performance on PS5 is solid. Some small frame drops now and then but very manageable. Graphics are not amazing in the sense of fidelity / textures etc but the general mood and art direction of the game more than makes up for that. I'm much more mesmerised by this world than Forbidden West's for example. Where other games take you by the and give very clear instructions where to go and what to do, ER leaves it to your own curiosity to explore. That is it's biggest draw for me.
This fame is just amazing, people that rate this game less then 5 dont know what FromSoftware games are all about. If professionell people Review this game with 97 and u give it a 0 u probably dont get it.
Insane. I have fifty hours in and feel like I have barely scratched the surface. Enjoying while slightly suffering.
For me it is already the game of the year and one of the best games I have ever played. The open world feels completely different from anything you've ever played before - but better. Nowhere do annoying quest markers or arrows take you by the hand and guide you through the world as if on rails. Everything you can find has a purpose or is meaningful. There is no trivial collection stuff. The best part is the sense of openness. You see something in the distance and wonder "How do I get there?". Then you try for a while and don't make it. Do something else and then end up at said place 5 hours later. I've really played a lot of open world games. But this open world is a kind of opus magnum. Future open worlds will have to measure up to this. It's big Dark Souls, but in a good way.
The game doesn’t support arabic sadly as a milions of arabic people playing the game
There is no Arabic language despite the promises made by the developers of the game before its launch, it does not mean anything to me now and is not understood
Playing on ps5; it is amazing, the world is insane. Never had a problem or bug.
the greatest game of all time. exploration and world design on the level of breath of the wild, impeccable combat in the usual from software style, and unmatched atmosphere, music and boss fights
a great game with tons of stories hidden away. and great enemy design also WE CAN JUMP NOW. HOLY COW I have encountered some stuttering and freezes. but not enough to take away from my enjoyment of the game
Lets make this really quick: Elden Ring is the best game I could imagine. There is nothing alike. I am a souls fan but I guess if you are new to the series, now is the time to hop on board.
I'm saying this as someone who never really like any of the previous Souls games. Elden Ring is my favorite game of all time. I would 100% recommend this game to everyone. I honestly never thought I would fall in love with this game so much. It's kind of ironic comparing myself today to myself a few days ago. Elden Ring is literally my life now.
Mr. Miyazaki deliver another masterpiece and i cant stop laugh of this review bombing by people that cant get over that Souls game is best reviewing game of all time haha, git gud noobs.
This is the closest I think a game will ever come to perfection it’s an absolute masterpiece the visuals are beautiful the open world is so fun to explore and there are 83 bosses to fight with around 80hours of story to go through and I’m sure as hell gonna replay it over and over and this is already on my top 3 favourite games of all time not to mention the combat is the best it’s ever been with it feeling like every weapon is useable with magic being really fun to use this time around and the jump attacks make for a whole new way to play the weapon arts are amazing and I also think spirit summons are an amazing idea for someone who may not want to some people cos it doesn’t feel like playing the game properly but also just needs help with the bosses Agro overall this game is amazing and I would really recommend everyone play it
This game is among the best games of all time. If I could give it an 11, I would. What can I say that hasn’t been said already. A standing ovation for a game so so hyped that not only lived up to the hype but found a way to exceed it. Thank you Miyazaki San and the FromSoft team.
Perfect game for Perfect fans, so happy to see all the fans around the world enjoying this masterpiece. Such a beautiful game.
Just simply not a very good game. Little to no story. Most content is missable and untracked. Very outdated and disappointing on accessibility. Unimpressive visual and audio design. Sluggish combat. No climbing. Janky horse. Poor optimization and performance despite very minimal technical ambition. Lots of lazy corners cut, like the slideshow opening.
While expecting an experience such as a souls game. Story is convoluted and explanation of progress is hardly to none. Experience mass amount of bugs right out of the gate and even after the recent update still experience issues. Leveled up to 50 to still be shredded by the opening boss. My hard work has yet to be shown. Why should I have to play coop just to beat a boss that I should be able to handle myself. Also inviting people to play rarely works if I’m slammed. Creature design is the only positive. Just beat the game, pretty forgettable experience. A bit over rated in my opinion
Do not trust negative reviews which complain about graphics please, I bet it at least half of the people expected another ubisoft game.. The world is rich and far from empty and boring but **** nowadays need pointers and question marks on the map to be able to find something, this is an outstanding masterpiece which offers you such a wonderful adventure, in case you have at least two functioning brain cells
Clunky controls. Horrific graphics. Arbitrary damage system. Garbage game from a dead company. R.I.P From Software
Amazing game, I started off somewhat skeptical when I was first exploring the map thinking it was empty, but when I started really exploring I realised how much caves, dungeons and secrets are all hidden and waiting to be discovered. It takes the mechanics and gameplay of each from game and puts them all together and it works. Combat feels great especially when you start finding new arts of war, combined that with spells and the new mounted combat and jump attacks. It took me a slight adjustment period but I'm hooked. The world is huge and full of loot. The trademark atmosphere that's from soft games are known for is here which is impressive given the open world format. The only problem that I had was draw distance I find it unpleasure to look far in open areas, anyway I'd highly recommend to anyone especially a fan of dark souls.
I have always thought that god of war has always been the best video game franchise of all time and this is no exception
This game blew past my every expectation, the enemies and bosses had great movesets that were, of course, punishing but fair. The enemy variety is quite frankly, insane to behold. How they could've put so much variety into that many different creatures is amazing. A few moves here and there were taken from previous FromSoft games, but with the staggering size of everything, it's quite frankly a drop in the bucket. Game devs do this all the time, nothing unusual here. The scenery was absolutely gorgeous: there were breathtaking vistas full of color; castles, churches, mysterious structures dotted the horizon, dungeons and mines below ground beckoned me to explore their depths. The first zone alone blew my mind, the ones that came after just as great. Want intricately designed buildings to explore, classic Dark Souls style? Morne's Castle and Stormveil Castle got you covered. Want to explore an open world on horseback, running through rivers, forests and fields? You can do that too! The graphics, while not as great as something like Demon's Souls Remastered, were still quite good. It's at exactly the level you'd expect for a game that released on both next gen and previous gen hardware. Anyone saying differently is insane, check out screenshots or video yourself. Everything ran smoothly for me as well, I didn't notice any horrendous frame drops or stuttering, it ran as a good as any other game I've played. But really, the feeling of clearing a new zone, and then rounding the corner to experience a completely new area left my jaw on the floor every time. Never did I feel like the game was unfair to me either, and if something seemed too hard, I could easily go level up my stats or weapons elsewhere and come back stronger. Bosses and enemies demand your attention and respect, but failure is solely on the user and not a poorly designed encounter. Quests, like in other FromSoft games, were very much small options to do on the side and offered to flesh out the world in cool ways. If you're coming in expecting to to be led around with map markers to clear bandit camps, I'd recommend playing something else like a new Assassin's Creed instead. That sounds mean, and it isn't meant to be, it's just a fundamentally different type of RPG, and not everyone is gonna know what to expect. And that's ok! Like previous FromSoft games, the wiki will eventually be updated with all pertinent quest information, so if you can't quite find your way through a quest, you can look on there. To me, this game is a 10/10. It isn't perfect, but that isn't what a 10 means in reviews. It completely surpassed my expectations, and every day I woke up feeling like it was Christmas morning with how excited I was to play it. With how many disappointing games released in 2021, we needed this win. I hope whoever reads this doesn't take the 0's as true fact. Most are disingenuous and review bomb worthy, citing issues on the PC port (this isn't even the PC game) or just straight up lying. The mixed reviews are a far better barometer of dislike, and if you're on the fence about buying, try reading those. People giving the game a 0 because of "PS3 graphics" aren't going to be giving accurate assessments of the title. Overall, Elden Ring hits every mark, and it was much better than I could've ever hoped for. It's different than a lot of the more popular RPG's that people are more familiar with. Please don't write it off because it doesn't guide you along as close as other games too. It's an experience that I've not felt before, and it has raised the bar for games in general. I hope you can experience it for yourself.
Its bad horizon Forbidden west much better. It it just an exact copy of dark souls 3
Massively overrated game. Elden rings feels like its built from 80s simple game design with 90s 3d game controls. It’s more a hack and slash game and not much of an RPG. Soldiers and monsters fight along side against one common enemy – you. The AI is less than what found in the first Zelda game made in the 80s. Monsters and soldiers run in mindless circles and feel misplaced on the map. You can kill a soldier in clear sight in front of another soldier and they won’t mind. Controls are simple and close to what you expect from the first 3d console games of the 90s. This game is also difficult for the wrong reasons. When you fight monsters, you get runes (money) that may be used to buy stuff from static NPCs scattered around the world. You also use money to buy level ups. If you die after a big boss fight and earn a lot of XP (or money), you loose all the money. This logic makes no sense and makes leveling up difficult unless you stick to grinding easy monsters. Leveling up is also very tedious as leveling gets you one stat, and one stats makes up for 1-2% more damage or HP. So if you want to balance out the difficulty, you are likely to play hundreds of hours of grinding, and also likely to hit the max stat before it even makes the game easier. Graphics won’t blow you away but feels OK. Nothing though feels polished. The world feels empty and sterile compared to Witcher. There are no towns and cities with people, and NPCs are placed around with lack of backstory. All in all this feels like a sandbox template with very little effort put into it. I also don’t know what role George R R Martin took in the storytelling as there is hardly any story to it. If you don’t like Dark Souls, this is not the game for you. In fact, it’s one of the worst games I’ve ever played. Why this game gets 10/10 from most critics is beyond me and can only be concluded in one of two cases. Paid review, or the critic is a massive Dark Soul fan. The only good thing I could think is that the Launch edition came with a few stickers and patches, and it’s nice to see they put some effort into that. The sad part is that this game tells other developers that you can get away with a good score just by releasing a standard sandbox template with nothing in it.
Absolutely loving it! The world is beautiful and well created. Don't listen to them stupid GTA fans saying it's an empty shell. It's deep and full of surprises. Game of the year 2022.
If you have any semblance of a life outside of video games, this gsme is not for you. Graphics looks the same as elderscrolls Oblivion. Controller layout is horrendous and makes the game harder then it already is. Don't waste your money
Support the Arabic language Support the Arabic language Support the Arabic language Support the Arabic language
My PS5 is struggling in some areas on performance, but the game is on of the best games released in recent years without a doubt.
Incredible experience. The combat and sense of discovery are unrivaled. The bosses are suuper creative. Same feeling I got when I first played Dark Souls.
Bandai Namco promised us that the game will be available in Arabic When the final product was released, the Arabic language was not available Why these false promises?
Masterpiece. A true sense of adventure. This is hands down the best souls game, if not the best game ever made. Cudos fromsoftware!
The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite
Dark souls 3 but open world, the rune economy could be better but still 10/10
Best fromsoftware game I ever played. Thank you Hidetaka Miyazaki for this masterpiece
I have payed many of the soulsbourne games before and I never enjoyed them very much but Elden Ring is one of the greatest games I have ever played in my entire life. With so many video games in recent years being open world's and them all being so similar it is so nice to see a new and fresh take on open world. There is no quest log or objective markers the game is just about exploring all there is in the way of guidance is a beam of light pointing the way you are supposed to go to continue the story at some checkpoints. But all side quests and areas you have to discover on your own and that is so cool because most open world's tell you exactly where to go and so you just head straight for that direction no really exploring alot but this game since you don't know exactly where to go you have to explore to find everything and it tells completely different then most open world's. The world is massive and has so many secrets to find and areas to explore. There are entire massive underground areas that you find just through exploring and can be completely missed. Everywhere you go you never know what you are gonna find even after 60 hours you are still finding completely new and unexpected things. If you for some reason just want a traditional souls game and want to miss out on the amazing world the game has you can do that too because you can just follow the path through the story though I highly recommend not doing that because the world is one of the main things that makes this game so great. The game is hard obviously but the feeling you get after trying a boss for hours and finally beating it in amazing. I still highly recommend this game for people who don't want to spend hours and bosses because if you want to you can summon other players to help you defeat the bosses and it makes the game alot easier (the closest you get to an easy mode). This game it is so unique and special and there is not really any games that it is even comparable to. Whether you like past souls games or not and whether you like open world games or not you should atleast try this game because it is nothing like past souls games or open world games or really any games for that matter.
Add the arabic language!. A lot of pepole how speak arabic want to take your game. But cannot because of the lack of the arabic language.
I’m currently 30 hours into the game and killed 2 main bosses you get lost easily, I am amazed how big this game is.
40 hours in and I’m still constantly discovering new things, the atmosphere in some areas is unparalleled, the bosses are hard and can be frustrating but they never feel unfair. If you’re not into lots of trial and error or looking for an easy pick up and play game this probably isn’t the one for you. I wouldn’t call myself a particularly good souls gamer but with enough willpower or cheesing if you have to you can make it through. For people saying character design is bad or there’s an empty open world it’s not true, many people couldn’t make it past the first or second boss and it left a bad taste in their mouth seeing other people progress and have fun, these games aren’t for everyone and that’s ok but reviewbombing is just dumb. The graphics aren’t the most amazing but personally that doesn’t really matter to me. I played on PS5 and haven’t seen any noticeable graphical issues but I’ve heard PC port is a little rough but being patched. Overall lots of fun and when you get tired of being smacked by a boss there’s a huge world with many secrets to discover.
Nostalgia. It's big business now. Seems like everyone is cashing in on 80's and 90's kids childhoods. But why? Why are people willing to pay money for something old and possibly obsolete? The simple answer is bliss. That exhilaration of feeling something new, The unlimited Thrill of receiving a reword for achieving what felt like an imposable goal that only a child can know. The first time you were excited and scared at the same time, The friendships...friendships before drama, when the only thing required to be friends was that you were all young and ignorant of an adult world. As we know being an adult isn't nearly as exciting and is rarely fun. So of course people (like me) in there 30's 40's and 50's will pay cash for a chance at feeling that bliss, if only for a single second, if only one more time. Video games were my very first love. Karate Kid on the NES is the first game I remember playing. And it called to me. The colors racing by, the thrill of surviving one more screen as I scrolled right kicking and punching. Then at the local arcade it was WWF Wrestlefest and Afterburner that gave me that same thrill, That sense of pure bliss. Other games made me feel that way over the years. But it came fewer and farther between as I got older. And it wasn't just games feel this way. It was going to a new friends house for the first time, playing in a construction area at night, riding my first wheelie on my bike, my first ollie, exploring abandoned houses with my friends. when we were kids it was pure bliss all the time. As life carries on, there are still wonders. the first time being intimate with someone, falling in love, your first promotion at work. But for most of us our day to day life's have become the status quo, go to work, be a good parent, and a good spouse. But no matter how good your life turns out, for a lot of us there will always be a longing for that bliss. That feeling of discovery we had so many years ago. Eldon Ring absolutely makes me feel that way again. I cant exactly say why. I never liked any of the other games made by FROM software. In fact I disliked them. But this game has kept me on the edge of my seat for the 30 hours I've put into it. I'm glued to my TV in a way that I haven't been for years. My heart races, and my adrenaline has been off the charts! Not just the game either, I've had my laptop In front of me the whole time, on forums, wiki's, and watching YouTube videos. Its the most "fun" I've had as long as I can remember. Around every corner is something new and exciting, every cave, Ruin, or castle is just absolutely filled with discovery. The constant fear of losing your progressions is ever looming giving this game that fear and excitement feeling from my youth. There is nothing like discovering an area with no messages anywhere and knowing you might be the first player to ever find this place. It's constant exhilaration. I could get into the mechanics, the graphics, what features the game has or lacks. But I wont. I could talk about the length of the game. But I also wont, Because for me it doesn't matter. Im 30 hours in and if the game ended now, or lasted another 100 hours I would consider it the greatest game ever made. What I do care about is how this game makes me feel. And it makes me feel like a kid again. Not for a second, but for hours. I never thought I would feel these kinds of emotions again. And for that I am so thankful. I usually dont write reviews, But I had to let someone somewhere know how amazing this game is. In my opinion this game is without a doubt the G.O.A.T..
This game is amazing. Open world is full of surprises, great combat, beautiful graphics. I've spent >100hr in it and still lots of secrets waiting to be discovered. Really enjoyed!
There is no Arabic language despite their promises ........................
A varied and fun open world that motivates you to discover the map, great gameplay, a variety of weapons and armor, the game world is very beautiful, a game worth trying
This is From Software‘s most ambitious project, and you can feel that during every second of your playtime. The open world is surely one, if not the best out there, with a lot of bosses, dungeons and overall variety. It‘s just fun. A lot.
The reviewers sold me this game like entry lvl for soul games genre and when I start to play it wasn't ... Just a bad experience overall :( Gorgeous art style, horrible animations, buggy gameplay and bad game design choices ... Have fun soul games fans but I will step back.
While the start of the game looks very promising, I can only rate it 1/10 because there is no English support for the Asian version. On the box it does says there is English support but in game everything is in either Chinese, Korean or Thai. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME AND SUPPORT GAME STUDIOS THAT INTENTIONALLY MISLEAD CONSUMERS
New soulsborne go brrrrrr. One of the best open world games ever. Really took dark souls to the next level
This is the best dark souls game around. The bad reviews are people having a hard time with it, and I might add its most likely thier first time playing a souls game no wonder they are mad lol. Great game
None of the bugs that people are writing about are deal breaking, and fairly customary in these series of games. It's just a another source of frustration and losing runes/souls. You'll become pretty accustom to this (eventually) depending on how many years you've been playing these type of games. You either accept it, or break your monitor...there's no in between. I can't help think that the angry user reviews can be a reflection of this. Some kid flips out, loses 25k in runes and starts writing horrible reviews. I know that's not all the cases, but I'll bet it's a lot of cases. Considering the game market has been crap for about 4 years-ill take this game gladly and won't be surprised if it nails game of the year. It's definitely a contender-guaranteed.
Great game 11/7 review bombers are stupid as hell Ill be playing and enjoying this for months maybe years
The best Souls experience ever! Perfect ambience, soundtrack and an incredible open world.
So good game i think this game best game of the last years and i think game of the year of game awards goes to elden ring ty miyazaka sama
First off! enough with emotional review bombs from users who forgot that this type of games are for a selective player base and dose not appeal to the general **** IS A HARD GAME, get over it. in its core it is really a true souls like game with narrow levels with more paths to take to get forward. It also give u these huge areas for u to explore outside of that if u fell like the bosses get u a bit too hard. this is to get it to be easier for newer players. the style of the graphics is so cool. i love how the art style makes up for the graphics overall. its not the most heavily graphical game u have ever played but the style and art in this game makes it as one of the most beautiful titles i have played for a long time. Good graphics don't need to be high polygon levels.. as many seem to think. the combat feels amazing. never have i played every new weapon i got or tried its style as much as i did in this title. the bosses are a huge step up from former titles and it feels like the ai can really think of what u are going to do next. sure this game has some few annoying things but if u can look past them and see the entire game as it is. I believe its the first 10/10 game in a long time. the lore is more present in this game and the world comes more alive than ever before. they really smashed it out of the park with this one. its on my top 5 games of all time. right next to Witcher 3 and that's saying something, what I have gathered is that ppl complain about it being to hard and not holding ur hand. but honestly I have been more engaged in a game for a long time. for from software to actually give that benefit of the doubt that the player can figure out where to go based on this games awesome level design and story bits make u really think how braindead and handhold other titles are now. let that sink in. I'm looking forward to see what from software brings to the table in the future as they just raised the bar so high, (80hours played)
this game is really very boring. graphics are outdated. gameplay is outdated. serious performance issues. extremely overrated.
Geez this is a very overhyped game. This is really just souls 3 open world. The main positives are that many of the bigger enemies look really cool and have cool looking animations. But there are A LOT of negatives. Graphics look rough at times and do not have many of the polished features that other high profile games have such as good face animation or enviornment responding to what you do, very clunky fighting mechanics and I can't stress that enough, unnecessarily unforgiving boss fights, and many and I mean many reused bosses and enemies from past Souls games littered throughout. In my opinion it seems the over the top and unbalanced difficulty is put in place to mask the clunky fighting mechanics and big flaws in the game. Dark souls cultists will love this game and claim everyone who doesn't needs to GG and that they just don't like difficult games, but gamers who are used to other games whether they are very difficult or on the easier side, technical fighting games, and polished open world games will see this game as not designed for them hence the misleading marketing push for this game to try and sell it. It would be one thing if I had fun playing this but I didn't. I feel like I wasted my money on an expensive game. I don't recommend getting this. The fighting mechanics are the biggest disappointment for me because it's not really different. When comparing the fighting mechanics to say Nioh 2, it was just boring. Nioh 2 had waay more moves and a waay deeper fight system to perfect in a souls style kind of game. Why didn't From Software learn from that? The fighting mechanics alone should make this game not worthy of perfect reviews in light of Nioh 2 even from the cultists. And the reviews and marketing push on this game have really been misleading. I suspect because they know most people will not enjoy playing this game's highly clunky fighting mechanics, unnecessary and unbalanced difficulty, and being left to deal with no tutorial except the From Software cultists. Do you want a game that you have to look up how to find or get past anything every step of the way on YouTube? Most people would say I don't might doing that here and there but if the game is reliant on that because of how it was designed or poorly designed then no. And anyone claiming this is like Breath of the Wild is an idiot. Horizon Forbidden West is an easier game but it is a better designed game overall and should be easily beating this game rating wise. Reviewers reeeally failed consumers that were not FS cultists on this and should be shamed for it.
Elden Ring is the greatest game of all time. A masterpiece in every way possible.
I don't like anything about this game, I went through the analysis and regretted the performance of this game is horrible .... apart from other things!
60 hours into the game and i dont feel remotely close to finishing the game yet. This game is just too good!
I'm sure the game is fantastic, however I'm very disappointed and shocked by the absence of the choice of English as the game's language. Understandably I bought the digital copy off of PS Store Taiwan, and Chinese is the primary language used there, but what about expats or foreigners that lives in Asia? We are left with an almost unplayable game. In a game world as rich and filled with lore such as this, I'm extremely saddened that I cannot enjoy it. BandaiNamco/Sony, please consider patching in English. It's not that hard :) I also don't really care about whatever this has to do with region or licensing, please respect your customers.
I have played every major souls game since demon souls and I can say without a shadow of doubt this is the best. Even after I got hit by the save data wipe bug and lost over 12 hrs of progress and I'll still give this a 10. The combat, exploration, enemy variety, story, music, puzzles, ect ect are all fantastic. Elden ring just raised the bar.
Visual-7.5/10 amazing scenery and detailing but facials still leave a bit to be desired. Gameplay-10/10 very fluid, responsive and tight. Almost any playstyle being viable with a bit of effort. Easy to understand but hard to master. Story-9/10 Don't wanna say much for spoilers but has very interesting reveals as you go through.
Elden Ring is one of the games of all time…………………………………………………………………………………….
Phenomenal, and absolutely a masterpiece in every regard. I see a lot of "0" bombs, which is a red flag that the game is either unplayed or is key to a salty "I am mad this game got a 10", which is incredibly juvenile. The game is difficult - and by no means as accessible as something like breath of the wild. Howeverz it is still the most accessible from software title by far and a fantastic game.
Elden Ring has one of the best maps of an open-world game I've seen. It's beautifully detailed, and it's also fun to explore. Of course, like most reviews you see, the FPS drops can be a bit of a problem if you play on PC, but on PS5 There are rarely FPS drops, and if there are they aren't noticeable. The bosses are fun to beat and also give you satisfaction when you beat them. Everything in this game is amazing. 10/10 TLDR: It's BOTW and dark souls, what can go wrong?
This game is absolutely phenomenal. If you are a souls fan and an open world rpg fan, you will adore this game. Not sure why so many reviews are saying terrible graphics, I am on the PS5 and think the graphics are stunning. The open world is unique and nothing feels repetitive. Almost everywhere I go there is some crazy new boss, event, or strange scenario going on. The game does a good job at rewarding you for exploring places and has good general progression. The combat. Lets be real, the combat is the bread and butter of souls games. Elden ring is no exception, they have fine tuned their formula with a few new interesting twists which makes for even more varied builds and great fights between all sorts of bosses. This is the Magnum Opus of the souls series, definitely worth checking out.
Mix of all previous From games + gorgeous open world = perfect game. Only issues? Small performance problems. With great games came people who bought game and thought it is another Assassins Creed probably - that's the only explanation somebody could give lower than 7
An excellent soulslike with a much bigger world and giant creatures! We have all the familiar ingredients in Demon Souls, Dark Souls Trilogy, Bloodborne and Sekiro, but now with some additional abilities including mount to navigate an open world.
Amazing. Simple as that. Soulsbornekiro players rejoice! Imagine Dark Souls philosophy in a Breath of the Wild format. Probably my GotY. Performance issues do occur but nothing that hinders the experience. Play in framerate mode. Ooooh elden ring!
It's all opinion but I'm surprised by the masterpiece status. This game is addictive af, I can play for an aggregious amount of time but I'd still put it below DS1, DS3, BB, and Sekiro. I may be unable to put it down but that doesn't make it the best, the gameplay loop just never feels concluded. For all the amazing aspects of the game and being the most refined Dark Souls (specifically) combat, there's just more busy work and lack of intentional pacing than the rest of Fromsoft's greats. It never reaches the highs the other games do and though it's open world, it feels much less of a unique and revolutionary game changer like BB or Sekiro were to the Fromsoft format (I consider those 2 games masterpieces and my favorite Fromsoft combat systems). The open world is cool but it does make everything feel less specifically intended and crafted, & you're often either over leveled or underleverd for an area. And while the areas can be beautiful they don't stand out in memory to me like DS1 interconnected world, BB amazing Lovecraft aesthetic, or Sekiro beauty and fun traversal. And while the world style feels reminiscent of Breath of the Wild as you figure it out naturally without markers or arbitrary blocks, it pales in comparison with little variety in gameplay when you explore, just different enemies and visual environments. I'd honestly have preferred a DS4 or BB 2 or Sekiro 2 over this tbh. Open world is cool but I haven't really found any reason why this is an improvement to a the semi linear design of the other games; I've mostly found it amusing at some points, and frustrating at others. It also has more bugs than either BB (which ran low fps at times but the graphics stayed consistent) or Sekiro did on the PS4. Quality mode is literally unplayable, with likely sub 30 fps, and performance mode has noticable pop in. It's weird how I think it's more visually sparse than those 2 games but has more trouble running on brand new hardware. Still, game of the year for me no doubt. Even a bad Fromsoft game (like DS2, which I do enjoy) is still miles ahead of most AAA studios. So this being great, but not a masterpiece imo, makes it a joy to play. It's the first AAA in awhile that I felt worthy of the price and genuinely want to finish while living up to expectations (I didn't expect it to be a 10/10, more like 8.5/10).
This game is truly a masterclass achievement. It is everything you could hope for from an open world action RPG. Elden Ring has an incredible amount passion and intention behind even the smallest little details and mechanics sprinkled across the world. This kind of polish is not often seen in AAA games anymore unfortunately. Looking at this game from an artistic standpoint, the scenery, architecture and atmosphere of this world is unmatched by almost any other game I've played. The open world feels lively and has a rich presence that invites exploration which you are actually rewarded for unlike many other 'open world' games. The story is intriguing and fairly accessible to follow unlike the prior souls games. From software really has outdone themselves with this game and it deserves all the praise it is receiving. There are some small performance issues including stuttering and FPS drops that some players are experiencing after release. I have not experienced any of these issues that hinder my enjoyment or experience so I left this out my score.
This is probably the best souls game ever made!Vast and gigantic open world!Masterpiece indeed!
Dodge roll input lag. The game is great! I enjoyed my time dodge roll input lagging my way around this incredible new world.
The game is vast and varied. The souls combat mechanics have been absolutely perfected. Replay value is even moreso than the rest. multiplayer is rough around the edges but like the other games it will get ironed out with time and metas will develop. This is FromSoftware's magnum opus no doubt, and holds the new place for top open world game of all time. I love that it isn't hand-holdy and respects the player enough to let them just play the game instead of chasing objectives and map markers, this was a huge concern of mine when I found out the souls formula was being adapted to open world. So many great strides made in this game and I can only hope more developers follow suit. Ubisoft and Bethesda eat your hearts out. This is the way you do an open world video game.
Elden ring is the most fun I’ve had in a game since early childhood. I’ve only played sekiro and the demon souls remake from the fromsoftware games but I think this tops the list. The game gives you the best elements of an open world game and has a fantastic and draw dropping map
Very enjoyable game, beautiful world, reasonable difficulty, but the graphics are pretty PS4-ish and the optimization is pretty bad, hope they fix it on future patches.
Literally the best game I have ever played, this is the final boss of souls games and I can't express enough how everyone needs to play this game. Its a souls game with the ability to jump and that alone should seal the deal. The gameplay is smooth and evolved, the exploration is amazing and there's even a swamp to top it all off. Miyazaki really outdid himself this time.
Great game, the best FromSoftware has made and One of my favorite games of all time.
The game has very minor pop ins with the landscaping. That is all. I have had zero frame rate drops on PS5… Zero… This game is an absolute masterpiece. It is definitely not a 0. Salty as scrubs don’t like this game. It’s brutal and hard. Sorry… I have put 16 hours into just a small area and there are dungeons, churches, caves etc… Exploring is like breath of the wild and there are important game items, weapons, armors etc to find. Exploring is absolutely wonderful. I was exploring and ended up in a cave I could not fast travel out of. I had to trek my way out and it was insane. Please do not believe the 0 scores. But I will warn you that the game is definitely hard. But… you can summon friends, npcs, and spirits. The game is absolutely a masterpiece. But again it will kick your butt sometimes. 10 out of 10 and I’m not even close to done. I can’t wait till I can’t experience what I’ve heard about the game as it progresses past 40 and even 60 hours.
This game looks awful and outdated, even Digital Foundry confirmed this. It’s not a triple A. From Software is an outdated studio and don’t deserve our money.
Everything has come together in this game to make it very best...number one game of all time for me. I was a little worried about the hype and how it might not live up to **** surpassed the hype. I knew it would be awesome but I honestly didn't think it could be the level of awesomeness it is. It has blown me out of the water. 100/100 Anyone who gave this game a zero...just disregard that foolishness
A love letter to souls fans. One of the best games I've ever played. If you're at all a fan of Souls/Borne games you have to give this one a whirl.
An absolutely fantastic game. Immersive world. Every corner has something to explore and it doesn't feel bloated. This feat will be hard to beat and i doubt fromsoftware will be able to pull it off again. The game is a perfect fit for what's missing in gaming 2022
everything we have come to love frome previous from ges and so much more. elden ring takes the best aspects of all games and puts them in a beutifully crafted open world.
Such a refreshing game.great atmosphere great open world integration great game play and visuals..
The world is empty and boring! You litteraly traverse over empty lands with a group of enemies here and there and ocassional cave where you fight mini boss(could compare it to nier:automata, but elden ring feels even more empty). Combat is the same as in every dark souls game. Hell, even interface is the same thing. Both graphics modes you can choose are trash. But hey, you can jump and ride a horse! What's your next idea from-soft? Maybe add swimming to a dated formula and call it a day...
Outdated graphics and stutter on ps5! Boring open world and outdated gameplay mechanics! Ik can't Imagine how this game had a higher score then Horizon . Sry to say but 60 bucks in the garbage
I own the game on ps5, and I’m roughly 17 hours in, I can personally say that my experience has been amazing, every few minutes the game hitches and the frame rate drops to maybe 45 fps at the most worse of cases (running on performance mode). But I’ve only experienced that maybe a handful of times when the screen if chock full of enemies and a lot of special effects… is unfortunate, but FromSoft are onto it. I believe any PS5 player who says it’s unplayable is bs. I’ve watched streamers on pc have full frame lockups during boss battles. Actual review time. I’ve played demon souls a handful of times, currently struggling with blood borne, and finally getting good at sekiro, never actually finished a dark souls though, use to get way to mad and never pick up the titles again. I won’t lie, Elden Ring? She hits hard as well, punishing at worst. But maybe I’ve just grown up a little but I find so much joy in the challenge, and once I overcome that one guy who’s been wiping the floor with me, I feel I stoppable until I meet his cousin 30 seconds later I’ll walk up on a boss and have my ass beat. But that okay, I’ll level up and come back later, that is how this game is meant to be played, Margit, the first boss will beat your ass unless you chose a ranged/sorcery class and build upon it. Go explore the world, it truly is amazing, but not perfect. Nearly everything you can see I’ve virtually every vista is touchable, apart from water, tarnished sink like halo Spartans. There are fun enemy’s and characters peppered everywhere, some don’t come out until a specific time of day, The graphics, this ain’t no horizon forbidden west, but you shouldn’t have expected that, graphics is not what souls/borne is about, the mechanics and gameplay with a flood of wacky characters and lore….. and death. I’m running performance mode, on ps5 on a 4K hdr tv. And i can say with confidence it IS an upgrade from all previous in visuals, especially in the effects and animations. All others compare it to The Demon Souls remake, but that’s not a fair comparison, that was made by a seperate dev team, under supervision of Sony, making A CONSOLE LAUNCH TITLE! Of course it will be stunning, and take full advantage of the hardware and software, it was a software flex for Sony. As well as a faithful REMAKE of a cult classic by another team. Overall, Elden Ring has been a blast, and I’m only like 18% completed. If you enjoy the souls genre, get it, and play it, if you need to wait for patches, then do so. It will still be worth it. 9/10, due to the performance hiccups, and only time will let if the entry becomes a 10/10, a true cult classic.
I think the idea of open world dark souls is really fresh and good idea. There are not many game that can match the combat of dark souls. And for the exploration itself. The game is really huge, there are so many new enemies in every corner that you can find.
This game is damnnnnn good. Been aying for days and loving it. Its my first soulsborne type game and its not that hard and pretty fair.
I am biased because I love all the souls games, but Elden ring is truly a masterpiece in terms of exploration and combat. I haven't had this sense of wow with a game since breath of the wild 5 years ago, but it's also got everything I love from the souls series. This is truly the quintessential from software game.
If you are a souls fan, specifically Dark Souls, you will absolutely love Elden Ring. The game is absolutely gigantic, so many NPC's, secret areas, etc. After getting over the first "hump" which takes a few hours, you will be immersed into a Souls experience like never before. My only gripe with this game is the performance / graphics. There are lots of texture pops, frame rate drops, and graphically the game is not up to par with the franchise's last game Demon Souls remake, but hopefully this is fixed with future patches. Prepare to become addicted!
Beautiful game, great mecanichs, open world changed a lot and as a soulsbornekiro fan, I am glad I got to see first hand this masterpiece
Only current downside to this game that I can possibly come up with is the state of its performance on release. I play it on PC, but I have heard it is having significant issues on the PS5. This is obviously something that will be fixed with time. On the game itself: The graphics are absolutely stupendous, if you think they are bad, I don't know what to tell you. Go play an EA game where the whole budget went to graphics and none on gamplay. This game is beautiful. The textures are high-res, the weather affects the bushes, trees, and grass. The effects like a big impact, an explosion, or a magic spell are very well done. The gameplay: It is the Souls games combat refined and perfected. The diversity of possible stat combinations, weapons, and playstyles is through the roof. Where in previous games you had the option of pure STR, pure DEX, DEX/INT, STR/FTH, or INT/FTH, now the game much more freely lets you mix and make your own unique build. You just have to go and find the pieces. If you've played Dark Souls 1, you might know that it was lauded for it's openness. If you had played it before, you could make a beeline straight to a certain item, area, or weapon and tackle parts of the game in any order you want (to a degree) well, ER has brought that back in full force. Speedruns for this game may take decades to evolve. You can go ANYWHERE, even if a boss blocks your path, if you have the skill to brute-force it, you can go claim whatever weapon or item you need to make your special run possible. And the map is colossal. It definitely didn't take the shape I was expecting, but even hearing how big it was, I was still astonished. I've seen some criticisms that the world is too big, and empty. This couldn't be further from the truth. The world is full and alive. There is loot or an enemy, or an NPC waiting to sell you a rare item around every corner. Unassuming cliffside? There's a little tunnel that goes into a sprawling mine. A random shack on the shore? There's a merchant in there, and he has just the weapon you were looking for. Heading to the lonely corner of the map where there's sure to be nothing? Nope. Huge optional dungeon full of loot, challenges, and puzzles. Also, despite the size of the world, even if you've seen a certain area so many times you're sick of it, you have a FAST horse, and you can fast-travel any time you aren't in combat. Not only is the world big, but the SCALE of the things within it are outrageous. Elden ring presents itself as having an Epic atmosphere and it delivers on it. It takes itself seriously. There are some incredibly majestic enemies, almost like Shadow of the Colossus. Don't listen to the contrarians. This game is actually BETTER than the hype. If you are looking for a game that is both challenging and freeing at the same time, it's for you. Some of the bosses aren't for the faint-hearted. Embrace death. It's part of the gameplay loop. But maybe wait and listen for word on performance optimizations, just in case. The game is certainly playable at high settings, and I have just under the recommended PC specs. It's just that some enemies, animations, locations, etc. Cause some stuttering. Hopefully it is fixed soon. If it does get completely fixed, this is one of the greatest games EVER made.
Dark Souls & Skyrim had a lovechild after a wild night, and Elden Ring was born.
A flawless elevation of the soulsborn formula to a full open world adventure. Breathing fresh life into the stagnant open world genre while holding to true to the core concepts of fromsofts design style.
These user reviews is proof user reviews shouldn’t exist. I doubt any of them beat the game. This is one of the best games i ever played. Don’t listen to these peasants.
In a world of where most large game studios choose to sacrifice quality material and respect to their community over next gen-updates and high performance, FromSoftware stand out. This isn’t a game about delivering a next generation cutting edge graphical evolution from its predecessors, but rather a game about continuing to evolve from the formula that made From successful and implementing new and big ideas to their core mechanics. It’s true the game doesn’t hold hands and isn’t trying to be accessible to everyone, but their past work has never been about that. It’s also true that the game has issues with frame drops on some platforms and doesn’t always look perfect, but for what it achieves and what it’s trying to do in a world this large more than makes up for some issues which are sure to be fixed. FromSoftware could have chosen to make another large open world with weak and uninteresting dialogue, repetitive and boring exploration with the same mechanics we’ve seen in every single other game for the last decade or two, or focused on incredible graphics and unfulfilling gameplay that is safe but accessible, however, they chose to stay true to their core community and expand on what has been working for them. The original Zelda games don’t hold up in todays world because of their graphics, it’s because of the love and care put into creating the world. It’s about the feeling you get when you achieve something after completion. It’s about dedicating time and experiencing the world you are playing in. It’s sad to see so many complaints about how games look these days when those are things that have never really mattered at the end of the day, it’s about the immersion and feeling the games bring.
Goty 2022 OHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
Best souls game & open world, fantastic graphics at least better than ds3 , gameplay is masterpiece, huge world, 10/10
Great combat, excellent art, beautiful gameplay, online services functioning since day 2 onXbox but I prefer going solo
Game is an absolute masterpiece, From Software somehow managed to outdo themselves with Elden Ring. The world is MASSIVE, bosses and meaningful content hidden around every corner, huge variety of biomes and an endless amount of the most freakish monsters video games have ever seen.
Hands down not only the best open world, but possibly the best game I’ve ever played this will define future open world rpgs in the future like Skyrim did many years ago. Thank you FromSoftware for this absolute masterpiece!
Quite possibly the best video game ever created. It majestic....a hybrid sandbox of high fantasy and horror. I originally played DS3 after my roommate forced me to play. He would knock on my door every day and ask me to play but I had heard "souls games hard." Eventually I played and one late night alone in the irithyll dungeon the game clicked and made sense. Ever since then I have played every one...DS1/2/BB/Sekiro. Elden Ring is a stunning combination of all of those games put into one. It takes heavy influence from games like Shadow of the Colossus & Breath of The Wild. The atmosphere & mood is the defining factor here. You will feel lost, overwhelmed, frustrated and triumphant all at once. The game is asking you to get lost and through that feeling you find yourself. Even with all of my prior experience the game still scares me. I move cautiously & take calculated risks. Although sometimes I end up in areas where I cant turn back and I have to reach inside of myself for something more....I have to overcome myself & become more in that moment. Its hard to explain this feeling or to quantify it but it is the exact experience that Souls fans love and why the games are so adored. No other piece of media or games ask this of you. They hold your hand...Souls games leave you stranded on the side of the road and say "good luck" I read some reviews prior to this and they are complaining about graphics....about design...about frame **** of them are meaningless if you manage to let the game take you and unfold itself before you.
This game is a souls fans wet dream and so far i'm loving every second of it. The feeling of being unrestricted is such a change of pace with all the hand holding modern game do these days. The challenge is just perfect gets my heart pumping every time.
Groundbreaking open world RPG in almost every way possible. BOTW on steroids.
Game is absolutely fantastic. All the idiots on here giving 0s because it is too hard for the poor babies or because the graphics are not what they expected are absolutely just trolling for the sake of trolling. Review bombing is for pathetic low life's who think their opinion means anything to anyone, be better than that ;).
Amazing gameplay. Huge open world. Don’t understand the zero scores. I understand frame rate issues for some people but they are on the fix in the future. One of the best games in the last decade.
Sick and tired of users review bombing games because of hype. You are just as bad as critics overhyping games.
Its just crazy what Fromsoft has delivered yet again, has some technical issues but that can be patched. 17hours within the first 2 days. It's that good. :) thank you Miyazaki and team.
This game is a truly masterpiece. Openworld souls game with great music is than we all needed but not deserved. Fromsoft ftw!
The most overhyped and overrated fanboy game of all time. Graphics looks like ps3, not much colours, Not a beautiful game like so many others. The story and gameplay is not that good at all. I really dont get why it got that rating from all those sites. Its not a game i would hype unless you are a fanboy of these kind of games.
This game is absolutely beautiful. From the soundtrack, to unique bosses, and the open world exploration. There's so many hidden things you can come across it's insane on top of the fact you can do it with your friends just puts a smile on my face. I'm currently 60 plus hours in and I see no end in sight. This game easily gets a 10 for me and it's among my favorite open world experiences with Skyrim and breath of the wild beating it slightly.
It’s massive, it’s beautiful, it’s challenging, it’s rewarding, it’s deep in lore, it’s masterfully crafted. Put simply, Elden Ring is the best game I have ever played.
GOTY, GOTG, BGE, what else... Thanks from software ! You delivered us a masterpiece.
This games is very confusing and tries to be so unique by not teaching us the basics of the game like the whole thing has no direction I don’t understand how they give this thing 10/10 .
Actually amazing. Literal everything you would want in a souls game. It’s like if you compiled all of Fromsoftwares previous titles and added more on top of it. The game is gorgeous on PS5 and I have no idea what people are talking about when they are comparing it to ps3 era visuals. If you loved dark souls, you’ll adore Elden ring.
The hype is real. 30 hours in and this is the most addictive games I have ever played. 10/10 so far. Just a breathtaking experience, I highly recommend it to anyone that loves a challenge and beautiful world to take in. Never has there been a better sense of exploration and discovery.
Its amazing, but fromsoftware with his tecnical problems makes them go down, i played bligttown on a xbox 360 so low fps dont bother me, looks amazing.
From Soft's best game to date. From graphics, to music, to gameplay to story. Amazing masterpiece.
Absolutely a must play! What a gorgeous and beautiful world. I can’t wait for DLCS and future sequels!
Literally best game ever made Have played it since 5-6 hours and it's just awesome (Few with open world in my opinion)
Bosses and enemy design 10/10 World design 10/10 Music 10/10 Art direction 10/10 Game play 10/10 I know this game is not for everyone but if you can handle some challenges in the game you should buy it now
The new innovation of FS is surprising, it breaks the tradition of each previous installment of FS, the world is very addictive, the graphics are well done for this installment, it is very very beautiful visually, there are several frame drops but that does not prevent us from continuing to advance and exploring in this magnificent world of souls, I hope everything is fixed with the patches, thanks for such a spectacular game FromSoftware.
I'd give it 10/10 for the amount of content and sheer size of the world. So many possible builds and ways to play, a completely amazing open-world souls experience in my opinion. Hoping for PC fps drop issues.
This is an experience like no other. It's absolutely stunning. It's a game that respects it's audience and treats them like adults, it challenges them at every turn and gives them a world to actually discover and lose themselves in. It's absolutely mind-blowing that this game exists - I never thought I'd see a video game like this in my life. Yes, the game is challenging - but that's precisely the point. I don't want to play a game that a seven year old child can pick up and play, because in the end that's who that game is tailored towards. I want to be respected. I want to be tested. I want the thrill of discovery and triumph. This game has that in spades. The graphics aren't superb, but honestly, I like it like that. The way they are it helps to create the sense of unreality, like a living dream that can be stepped into at any time. The graphics aren't what's important - it's the design. It's a meticulous and well-wrought world and some, unfortunately, are unable to look up from the ground to see that. If you have some patience and give this game the time it deserves you will be well rewarded with one of the greatest gaming experiences of your life. So, don't give up, because that's when you have really lost.
Yess yessss yesssss.. yesssssss…. The best!!!!!!!!!!!! Loving it! No complaint!
Poorly optimized and riddled with bugs. Don't buy the hype from the same people who told you Cyberpunk was a 10/10 masterpiece. Just another generic FromSoftware game.
Incredible game. Simply beautiful in terms of art direction. Point knocked off for poor performance.
Elden ring>your favorite game elden ring>your mothee elden ring>you miyazaki negs all people. elden ring fans are based
This game is a challenging game and if you do not want to go through the process of learning how to play it then you should not buy this game. No matter what the people that are upset about the difficulty are saying, this game is a 10 out of 10. Yes, the graphics could be a little better, but the game is still beautiful, and if you can accept that this game is not a cake walk and that you might have to use your brain a little, you will see that the combat is amazing, and the world is one of the greatest in gaming history. I love this game and if you are willing to put in the time and embrace the challenge, I would recommend it to anyone
Aside for some optimization issues. In my opinion it is almost a perfect game so far.
The open world is very well designed. Although there are fps drops, it is the best game you can play right now. You must not miss the Elden Ring
I think there would be less negative scores if A. Performance was better and B. if more people took the time to explore the actual world. Explore all of limegrave. Everything. You will thank me later. Instead of shooting right towards storm veil castle try the optional stuff 1st. It will get you alot stronger and you will have amassed plenty of amazing weapons and loot. Its such a rewarding experience. Theres alot of depth to the exploration. Some bosses only come out at night, most things arent in plain sight so stop playing this game like its skyrim and play it like a fromsoft game.
Best open world game I have ever played. Wide variety and always something to do. However, frame rate drops, pop ins and sluggish level progression hold it back from 10. Also, and no one will ever change my mind about this, FromSoft should have streamlined coop, especially in Elden Ring where you can play and progress the entire game with friends without interruption.
A Souls game to it's core, with the most breathtaking world design I have ever explored.
lack of combat move, worst animation & GRAPHICS. Worst Gameplay ever doesn't look like next gen gaming is old school low quality game
Anyone giving this game a 10/10 is incapable of being objective about a game made by FromSoftware. For anyone who want Dark Souls in an open world, this game is for you. However this will not appeal to a large number of people. This is touted as being "the most accessible Souls game ever" which may in fact be the case. If it is, it still has a long way to go. The lack of markers on the map is supposed to "give you more incentive to explore the world" when in fact it just makes everything tedious. The lack of a quest log means that you have to manually keep track of any side quests, which is absolutely absurd that a game in 2022 doesn't have a quest log. I honestly can't even think of how that can be construed as a positive. In terms of graphics, it looks like a late PS3/early PS4 game and it has FPS issues even on PS5. The UI looks like something out of the early 2000s. As for the story, most of the side quests actually have a better story than the main story, which is kinda sad. You're likely either going to need a second playthrough or some googling to fully grasp the story, which is pretty bad game design. Don't take lessons from Kingdom Hearts when it comes to story. To summarize, if you like Dark Souls, you'll probably like this game. If you don't want to feel like the game you're playing is a chore, steer clear from this game.
Elden Ring has a lot of mechanics carried over from the previous Soulsborne games, layered with a ton of new and welcomed mechanics, combined with an enormous yet dense handcrafted open world. There is a lot to love, and a lot that will be a hit or miss for many people, even for the Soulsborne fans. I personally am loving the whole package, especially how the game encourages curious explorations, and rewards them with surprising unique encounters and rewards. Miyazaki, in his typical way, engages in an ambiguous non-verbal dialogue with the players. As usual, a lot is communicated through environmental storytelling, scattered scripts, and gameplay. However, this time around I am finding it easier to read into. Big changes in approach will be needed for the people coming in with a muscle memory. And there is an intimidating amount of learning required for new players - so I can only recommend it to those who are motivated to put in the effort.
This game **** Simple as that. The only people with unfavorable reviews are the ones who want their hand held from start to finish. This is my first souls type game and I love. Visually stunning, characters that aren’t annoying, polished combat. What an absolute treat. 10/10
amazing masterpiece ****. only needs a few patches to iron out the stutter here and there, ability to disable the compass hud only while keeping your health bar, and of course the main gripe of mine, the ability to disable the auto-center camera while running. but besides those 3 issues the game will be perfection when fixed. i'm just going to give it a 10 star rating because i know that those issues are fixable. but all the same its a masterpiece nothing comes close to this game. fromsoftware does it again
Elden ring is a good game but it turns out that it is more of the same, the same difficulty, the same gameplay, simply its novelty is that it is an open world, it is more of the same when it comes to an old graphics engine. How could have almost perfect grades? I just don't get it, it's full of bugs, pop up, fog, etc. Those who rated it forgave all this just like that. That does not mean that repeating the formula gives you many hours of exploration and why not? of frustration. In general it is a very inflated game by the media, it is not even remotely what they wanted to make it seem. It is not perfect, it is not open to all, where is the objectivity? It's a shame that they behave like this.
A game designed to waste your time, now with a big open world to waste even more of it. The series it’s not officially from is based on the idea of a challenge via memorizing attack patterns. Guess what you do in between those many deaths required to memorize it? Run back to where you were. Over and over again. Even farther now that there’s a big open world to go through again... and again... and again... This game is a test of patience, and anyone who has literally anything better to do should avoid it. Value your time. Life isn’t so long as to waste your seconds on this pile of turd.
This is going to sound strange coming from me, a massive From Software fan who's been greatly looking forward to Elden Ring, but I actually have mixed feelings about this game. I've put about 15 hours into the game so far, and I'm still mostly exploring the starting area, Limgrave, so perhaps there's much better content to see as you progress a bit further, or perhaps I'm just missing something. But, thus far, I have two main issues with the experience. The first issue is that I feel like I lack any kind of specific, concrete, long-term goal. What exactly am I supposed to be working towards? All I've been told in-game is to somehow "become an Elden Lord." It's such a vague task however that I'm unable to wrap my head around how to specifically go about achieving it. What does becoming an Elden Lord entail? Who knows. I can assume it entails exploring further and further into the Lands Between and ultimately fighting a final boss, after which you may be presented with the opportunity to "become an Elden Lord." But this is ultimately a guess, and because the game doesn't give you this goal in concrete terms, it has made a lot of what I've done in the game so far feel very aimless and strangely pointless. It doesn't feel like I'm working towards anything specific, and therefore I feel almost disincentivized to engage with what seems to be the only activity the open world has yet to offer - fighting enemies. Which brings me to my second issue - the content in the open world. I've explored Limgrave now for about 15 hours, as I've said. I haven't discovered a single interesting thing that wasn't in some way a fight. Where exactly is this wealth of content that every review claims is around every corner? I've discovered random boss encounters; these are pretty cool. I've discovered lots of small, medium, and large groups of enemies; these are generally less cool. Fighting enemies in Souls games has always been more about the macro reward - progression along a set, geographically linear (relatively) path that inches you closer and closer to some concrete objective - rather than fighting just for its own sake. But that's all it feels like I'm doing here. There are chests with various items in some enemy camps, but these have been pretty few so far, and the items contained within are typically just "meh." It feels like a lot of simply fighting for the sake of fighting, and that just doesn't constitute worthwhile and compelling content for an open world in my opinion, if that's all there is to do. I hate to do it, but I'm going to compare this experience with that of Breath of the Wild, because tbh I can't play an open world game without at least subconsciously making this comparison every step of the way. In Breath of the Wild, you're given a very simple and concrete objective right off the bat. "Defeat Ganon." It's so easy to understand. You're going to fight Ganon. It's going to be a physical battle. You know you're going to need to get stronger, you're going to need more health, more stamina, better gear, etc. Therefore, you can proceed with purpose, and every choice you make in the game can be contextualized, even when it doesn't necessarily have anything to do with defeating Ganon. Some things you'll do will feel directly tied to that goal, and other things won't feel related at all, but having that concrete goal gives purpose and context to your actions, and as a player you feel this, even if it's only subconsciously. Secondly, there's just so much to do in Hyrule! Fighting enemies is just one activity among many, as opposed to the only real content around the open world. On my first play-through of BotW I actually ignored and avoided enemy groups frequently, because I was having so much fun just doing everything else. I felt like there was such a variety of content, and importantly, it was all so much fun to do, and a lot of it just for its own sake. Finding Koroks was an enjoyable activity that put a smile on my face, regardless of the reward you get for doing it. Fighting random pockets of enemies in Elden Ring is not really all that fun, and especially so when it doesn't have the needed context of a concrete goal or objective. So, although I am enjoying Elden Ring to an extent, right now I fail to see how the open world is an asset to the Souls formula. I'm more inclined to say that it's a detriment, as it doesn't offer any real novelty in the way of content, and possibly distracts from the aspects of a Souls game that I find compelling. Like I said, I've explored Limgrave for about 15 hours now, and a lot of that time spent has felt aimless and unrewarding. I don't feel like I'm really progressing, because I don't have a concrete goal to work towards, and the content isn't necessarily all that fun or engaging for its own sake. I hope my experience gets better and better as I play, that it eventually just "clicks" and really hooks me, but as of right now my feelings are mixed.
Steam Pile of overhyped crap.. Graphics are ok.. Nothing to get excited about, Gameplay is ok, Menu / UI is god awful tutorial and understanding of the game might as well be here's a helmet get out there. and there was nothing to get me hooked or even wanting more.. ii know its a souls game.. but i spent 2 hours dead.. just because its hard / you can doesn't make it a good game.. co written by who i would'nt know cause i never even got a chance to hear the story.. bad game. if this is a good game guess its time for me to hang up my gaming boots
Game is not accessible at all. Would love to learn the lore and see the beautiful artwork they put into it but I’m not about to die a million times to some stupid boss that’s stupidly overpowered. Make a difficulty slider so I can actually somehow enjoy it. *sigh* back to BotW for the millionth time.
Yeah, the performance ****. The graphics are also far from what a game released in 2022 should look like and that’s why I’m rating it with 9 instead of 10. But holy ****, is this game good! The open world, the lore you have to discover by yourself and so much more make Elden Ring the ultimate Souls game. To everyone saying that there is no story and too little explanation on what to do: You are most likely new to this series and that’s why you need to take yourself some time to understand the games mechanics and lore properly. The game may be considered as an open world rpg, but since it is so different from other games of that category, it fits itself into a whole new subgenre that might feel weird to people who are not familiar to the Souls series. That’s why it’s important to get familiar with it to truly enjoy the experience Elden Ring has to offer.
A masterpiece, the world, the tone and the art direction are excellent. A rich open world that rewards curiosity and exploration and is full of surprises and discoveries. Gameplay and combat that surpasses anything ever made in a video game, One of the best video games of all time.
It's not a perfect game, sure. But It's what gamers need. Exploration, epic moments, good variety of builds. Everything is linked. I hope in the future more software houses will work like From Software!
Tagline : "Most overrated Runescape clone, hyped up by people who hate the fact that GTA and Assassin's Creed are popular" What specs you need to run it 60fps - 1080p or 4K, without stutter or lag? - Honest answer is that, no matter how good your PC is, no matter, if you have PS5, this game will perform horribly and only thing you can do is wait for multiple patches. This game goes into same category of games, that have been extremely overhyped and extremely underdelivered. Other examples would be "Cyberpunk 2077", "Fallout 76", "Anthem", "Battlefield 2042" and "Elden Ring" is another fine addition to that list. So what new groundbreaking mechanics, graphics, open world design, innovative combat or interesting story this game offers? - Pretty much none of these. Graphically (for some weird reason) this game goes back to 2012/2013. But 2012/2013 had lots of great games and at times "Elden Ring" even looks beautiful, especially the sky, but ground and grass textures are pretty much worse than some 2013 games. For 2022 AAA release this is bad. Game that gets Metascores 95/97 in 2022, should have way more work put into it. Next up is open world design - There's extreme amount of boring looking, absolutely empty areas. This is automatically bad open world design, because these empty areas, that doesn't even look good have zero purpose to be there. Other areas that actually have something, okay let's make that clear, all that other areas have is trees and monsters. Endless amount of monsters that are simply sitting there, doing nothing, waiting for you to slay them. This is literally Runescape game design 101, i have been playing Runescape since 2004, i know what i'm talking about. Quests (if you can even call them) are extremely short, boring and you can literally ignore all of them. It's usually some lady asking you to go somewhere, get something, get it back to her. Most hilarious thing is that game doesn't show that you have completed any of them, which basically means that by the end of the game, you forget that you even did these. Runescape has more complex lore, quests and writing than this game can only dream of. Why i'm talking about Runescape and not Skyrim, you might ask - Well because lore wise, Skyrim would be too tough challenger for this game. Combat is extremely similar to Dark Souls 3, game that released 6 years ago. Same animations, same everything. Anyone who says in that case that "Innovation is overrated" has no right to criticize Rockstar or Ubisoft ever again, just saying. Anyone who says that having horse is innovative must be a troll, because having this empty open world without any transportation, would be almost insulting. All in all very weak release, only fun i had in this whole game were two boss fights - Margit and Godrick, i have to say they have extremely unfair combos, attacks and they are pointlessly difficult to beat, especially for 2 first bosses, but at least they have some interesting lore and cool monster design. 1 point for beautiful sky design, 1 point for Margit boss design and 1 point for Godrick boss design. Overall score 3/10 - Not recommending, unless you have never played open world game before, but even then, you just could play older open world games that are way better.
My second best game only beaten by Ice Age: Continental Drift - Arctic Games. The combat is way better than Ice Age: Continental Drift - Arctic Games but the characters are not as interesting as Ice Age: Continental Drift - Arctic Games. Only needed thing needed for this game is a monkey. Edit: Played the game more and I can say there is a monkey Edit 2: Monkey has a boomerang. Edit 3: This is my now best game monkeys are able to ride horses.
it was supposed to be one of the best games ever but it didn't. From a technical point of view it has big problems both from the graphic point of view (it looks like a game of two generations ago) and from the performance point of view (the continuous drop in frames is unnerving). Incredible AI is also lost with NPCs and some bosses. The gameplay remains solid and clean. The last downside and perhaps the worst is the total recycling of assets as if it were a copy and paste. Had it been the sequel to dark souls 3 I would have also understood but not being the sequel, I find the recycling of assets in bad taste. Failed.
A soulsbrones veteran here, the best soul game so far, the mysterious world just so captivating. The feeling similar to when play ringed city.
This game is going to be the best game of this year, I strongly recommend playing it on Xbox Series X, the only platform where it does not give problems with lag or fps, from software did it again but this time better than ever, it brought together the best of all the video games they have released to date in one, with a beautiful open world as well.
No Arabic The game is deserves it And the boss is good !but no Arabic 4 that
Masterpiece, that simple. Everything form combat, enemy and world design to story is truly amazing. Without a doubt one of the best games ever made
I played 20 hours it was a great experience and I am looking forward to finish the game.
Amazing game with a fantastic open world. Played on PS5, great graphics and just astounding art direction. Also incredibly fun to play. Very lively multi-player and a lot easier to get into than Dark Souls. If you run into a challenge you can't overcome at first, just go do something else. There's a million things to do but it never feels like you're locked into a single path. Boss battles are simply incredible. Must Play Game.
A wonderful evolution of the "Souls" formula. Another masterpiece from Miyazaki and the quality of the game itself far outweighs any of the minor performance issues (as of patch 1.021).
I have been playing for many hrs but I have only just beaten the first major boss, this is due to the huge amount of exploration that is possible in this game. I can honestly say this is the best open world game I have played by a mile. The combat is exceptional and the world building is phenomenal. Can’t wait to see what else lies in store.
'When you've finished your 4th Black Forest gateau - here, have another, and try not to puke' Putting 5-10 hours into this game gave me both a skinking sense of deja-vu and the feeling of forcing myself to eat **** of overly sweet cake. If, like me, you have played this series since Demon's Souls, you will realise Elden Ring is Dark Souls 4. Or Demon's Souls 2 - It doesn't really matter at this point. Other than the *slightly* more open world structure (the 'Souls series was always somewhat open in structure) and Torrent the goathorse, everything is exactly the same as all the previous games, including elements from Bloodborne and Sekiro. Same player classes and animations? Same enemy design, including enemy types/classes? Same pseudo-mediaeval world, with lonely atmosphere? Same dead-eyed, hollow-voiced NPCs? Same controls and combat system? Same telling of the opaque story and world lore through item descriptions? Same, boring, grindy progression system? Same die-and-die-again repetitive gameplay? Enroaching feeling that you are wasting your life playing updates to the same game released well over a decade ago? 'Yes' to all of the above. Mashing together your previous 4 games and adding a horse is in no way innovative or good, by any metric. This is one of the laziest 'masterpieces' I have ever seen. It used to be fun, but its just the same bland thing over and over again. Utterly sickening - i hope you like cake. And then more cake. After a palate cleanser of cake. All washed down with a warm glass of cake, chewed up and regurgitated into a pint glass by Hidetaka Miyazaki.
Absolutely fantastic and massive. This feels like the best parts of all of the Souls games wrapped into one with plenty of extras thrown in. Some of the most gorgeous environments I've ever seen. More than once I've thought, "there can't be anything over here", then discovered a massive dungeon. 30+ hours in and just about to finally venture past Stormvale Castle.
The most outstanding game of the decade. From Software has taken open-world games to insane new heights.
The game is absolutely incredible. I literally keep findings small dungeons and secrets stretching the lore and adding a sense of adventure. The level of detail and reward for exploration is insane. I haven't felt this rewarded and engaged to explore in an open world game in a long long time. All of my friends are playing it as well and we each discuss these entirely different experiences following whatever path we want. If you're worried about a difficult experience it certainly is hard, but the freedom to just run off and do something else will help make it that much more bearable. To go prepare for another try. Highly recommend! -Git gud
Holy **** this game is amazing, I’ve played the game for 26 hours in release weekend and I feel like I have so much left to do. The game is a mix of dark souls skerio( idk if I spelled it right) and blood borne. The combat is the same perfection as it always has been the open world is amazing and I the bosses are outstanding. I can wait to play the rest of the game. You must buy if you love from software games.
I'm 35 hours in, and I am completely blown away. The only thing more fun than the time I've put in is knowing just how much more content there is left to explore. I don't often leave reviews for games, but when I saw some of the review-bombing that the PS5 version of Elden Ring is getting on here, I figured I had to say my piece. First off, there are clearly tons of people who are on the wrong page and don't realize it. The PC port is not very well done and I won't say anything to defend it, but to come to the PS5 listing and complain about PC frame rate issues, lack of ultrawide support and other issues that clearly have nothing to do with PS5 is extremely dishonest. If you removed all of the negative reviews that have been clearly left on the wrong page, the score would be like 10 points higher. It's a shame that people can outright post that they are reviewing the wrong game as part of their review feedback, and that review just stays up and potentially affects other's opinions. I think Metacritic should remove reviews that are posted to the wrong platform. That aside, the game is astonishing. The folks saying that the open world is flat or empty must be playing a completely different game than I am. You can barely run for 30 seconds before finding something interesting. I am probably not even a third into the game and I have found so many things that have surprised and intrigued me that I have lost count. Some assets (like catacombs) are re-configured and re-used, but when maybe 4 out of the 100+ points of interest I've found are re-configured, that is completely okay with me. As for the folks who are saying that this game is re-using assets (animations etc.) as a form of criticism, I think they are being completely unrealistic. For a game of this magnitude to exist, that was a tool that FromSoft had which made it possible in the first place. They have a pile of animation rigs, AI and other assets from other games they have published on this engine, and it seems to me that their swan song for that robust engine is to take all of the best from it and use it (plus countless new assets) to build a gargantuan game which would not otherwise be possible, and to give an incredible amount of content to players who enjoy the material FromSoft creates. I suspect that the hype, mostly by gaming news sites with reviewers that have come to love FromSoft games, has led to many new folks picking up Elden Ring who have not played other FromSoft games and have no idea what they are getting into. That clearly shows in some of the reviews that are listing series staples as design flaws. In short, the PS5 version of this game is the way to go, and it runs perfectly. The graphics are fantastic considering the unimaginable scope of this game, and the gameplay is perfect. Go explore, get lost, get killed, get lost somewhere else, get stronger and come back to get revenge. This game is truly open-ended, and everything is possible right from the start. It feels like being dropped into a living, breathing world with endless mysteries to unravel. If that sounds cool to you, you will enjoy this game.
Technical issues can be fixed. I rate games based on content. Fromsoft is above and beyond the masters of combat oriented rpgs. No other company can give me such an amazing feel when you clash swords. The sounds, the timing, the skill and the challenge. This game is a masterpiece. I was in an underground area and it had the best look of any game I have ever seen to date. Period. Combine that with an upgraded combat system and it feels sublime. I have 2 great runes and I am just taking my time with the rest of the bosses. I want to find everything I can. The amount of mini bosses is amazing as well. So many cool encounters. I cant say enough about this game. On the technical side I noticed frame rate drops. That is it and I can forgive that. This game is worth buying. Just take your time and explore. The world is huge and the combat is a dance to remember... 10/10
Masterpiece **** the haters. This game is the best souls make ever!!!!!!!!!!!
This is probably the best Action RPG I ever played so far, it's challenging, always surprising, artistically stunning, I can't really find any gameplay flaws, it's just a joy to play for hours and hours.
This is THE fromsoft experience, if you like the soulsborne games, you MUST get this game, this is peak game design! the graphics are amazing, and the gameplay is just, mmm, perfect!
Perfect game it has the biggest map I ever seen and the bosses was really hard and fun
Read this please I rate this game 0 because Arabic language is not in this game.
This game is not just dark souls 4 but dark souls 5 and 6. Elden ring is the best from software game I have played to this day. I am yet to find a single flaw to this perfectly crafted game.
This is my first review on Metacritic. I really don't understand the professional metascore for this game. It is not polished, the combats feel clunky, the bosses are overwhelming and the satisfaction of beating them doesn't negate the frustration of dying 40 times because of the bad blocking or rolling mechanics The world you travel around feels empty, it's depressing and the encounters all feel the same. I won't even talk about the music and the terrible voice acting of the characters you encounter along the way. To be honest, I played around 10 hours and i'm already selling it to make most of my money back.
The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite
Technically this game is really bad comparing to most 2015+ until now. Graphic assets are merely copie-pasted from other fromsoftware games, texture from ds3, light and particles effect from seikiro. Rigging of the characters seems made by and indie company.... Other than that, the game presents same tech problems of past games, poor framerate, delay on controls, bad texture merging and so much more.
after 20h of playing that's the best game I've ever played ! it's literally dark souls + sekiro + bloodborne . fromsoftware did it !
Elden ring is a masterpiece, this game is absolutely amazing. anyone leaving a negative review on here is just butthurt that they **** too much at fromsoft games to be able to enjoy it. Currently have 30 hours into the game and have experienced zero lag or stutter issues. People can't complain about the difficulty of the game so they make up a lame excuse to review bomb. This game is legendary.
I haven't had any issues on my PlayStation with glitches and this game is just perfect, not much else to say
this game is very fun. played 5 other fromsoft games and this was definitely the best. that’s saying a lot seeing how good ds 1 2 3 bb and sekiro are
Wow, just wow... i expected this to be good but what Miyazaki have did this time is nothing short of masterpiece.
Best game ever (after Bloodborne). Mastery of the soulsborne genre. I have spend a considerable amount of time with this game and sm hooked…
Elden ring is the best the soulsborne formula has to offer from engaging on your toes combat to deep and thoughtful lore. This series has it all for anyone who wants a challenge and not to have their hand held.
I’ve been hyper for this game for over a year and a half. And shockingly it wasn’t as good as I thought. It was better. Best open world RPG I’ve ever played.
GOAT never played as good designed open world game before. Praise the sun....
it's the dream game of every Dark Souls fans é o jogo dos sonhos de todo fã de Dark Souls
This game is very poorly optimized and looks terrible. The game has lots of hitching and I feel I am playing on a ps3 or xbox **** gameplay is fun at times but enemies feel repetitive. You fight an enemy die comeback, kill it, feel good about killing it but then its rinse and repeat. The map is extremely boring and dull. There is no story. I mean you find tidbits here and there but figuring it out and trying to be interested was impossible I feel like they are getting a free pass on putting out a bad game in general.
Best open world game ever game incredible level desing great variety stellar combat
From Software with another big winner. Incredible variety and level design.
I preordered the game on ps store taiwan, and there was no description at that time about the language whatsoever indicating no English language. Only one version of game was available. I preordered the game assuming to play it in English. If I knew there was only chinese, I would not buy it on ps store. Hope sony or bandai can fix this soon.
The game is good, it has great scenarios, enemies with a flashy appearance, however, the game performance is horrible, even more running on ps 5.
Please add ENG language setting to the products in SEA region. I love everything in the game except the lack of ENG text. Some countries in SEA doesnt have ENG text while some does. It is unfair, we all deserve to enjoy this great masterpiece equally. Every past games from FromSoft and Bandai has ENG supported, why not this, and also every other game devs and publishers have ENG as default language in their games, why not this game. Why made this ridiculous decision. P.S Even those local languages are bad translation, even many local Asians prefer to play in ENG.
Best game I’ve ever played. Elden ring might be the only game you’ll need for the rest of time. Never played a more dense, vast, expansive, and well crafted game in my life
If Dark Souls and Zelda Breath of the Wild have a baby will be this game, with both best genes, an easy game of the year and maybe a game of the decade
The fights, the enemies, the weapons, the magic, and the exploration on this huge world, this game caught my hearth and my mind i cant stop playing
I absolutly love this game. Its a huge improvement on previous souls games. The open world is immense. Everytime i set out to do something i end up somewhere else because there is soo much to do in the open world. If you liked previous souls games you wil fall in love with Elden ring
Don’t listen to to the haters. Best game I have played in 10 years. If you loved Breath of the Wild, then this is the game for you.
It is a very good game. However, if you don't understand what you're getting into with a FromSoftware game, DO NOT BUY IT!! It is a DIFFICULT game that is not going to hold you hand and tell you exactly what to do. Unfortunately, Many people bought this game without understanding what it was and thinking you would just be flying around on dragons and obliterating enemies. If you want a game that requires you to THINK and OVERCOME CHALLENGE, this is the game for you. However, if you want a game with quest markers, repetitive side content, and easy combat where you can just turn your brain off and screw around in an open world (not that there is anything wrong with that), you will be SEVERELY DISSAPOINTED!!
Whoever is review bombing this game definitely hasn't made their way past the first open area by any means or hasn't even played the game. If you take a look at whatever lies past the first open area, you'd understand what massive game this is not only in terms of scale, but also in terms of art direction. I've never played anything like this and I've been playing videogames since the early nineties. I'm a huge souls fan exactly for this reason: FROMSOFT NEVER DISAPPOINTS! This is a top tier game. I'm only 25 hours in and cannot believe the amount of work and love FROM has poured into this title. If I had a chance I'd go and thank each and every one of the developers for providing us such titles and not choosing to do something like other studios do for more revenue. MUST PLAY!
The gameplay is amazing, the world is HUGE but filled with new content at every turn. This is by far the best open world design I have seen, it's impossible to guess what will come up at the next corner unlike mist open world games where it's always rinse and repeat. Just for these reasons and the fact that I am addicted, I rate this game 10/10. The PS5 optimization is poor and the graphics are nothing exceptional, I hope PS5 optimization gets patched (even in framerate priorisation mode, there are many framerate drops and graphics often popup, such as grass). The game is so good that I can easily give 10/10 even with these optimisation issues :)
Everyone here saying "this game has PS3 graphics" clearly haven't played PS3 in a long time.
Creative world building, deep lore and story, perfect combat system. The masterpiece of the souls formula! Not just a game of the year candidate, a piece of art.
it's too much overrated. It's just like 6-year-old Dark Soul 3 with almost same graphic quality and bigger map.
Good game! Only had frame rate issues once so far. Just as much fun as Bloodborne but more accessible since there are fewer bosses that you are required to defeat before proceeding with the game. If you can’t pass through a particular area, there are plenty of other places to explore before taking another crack at it.
ASIA VERSION BEWARE. ENGLISH is NOT included in the game. Bought it in Thailand and all the text is in chinese. It's been days at seems like bandai will not be fixing this issue. Shocking as it clearly state english in the ps store. Sony not refunding either. This game is a steal, bandai is a joke. stay away from this game
Game have several graphic issues, it does not feel rewarding too explore since it almost always thrash rewards. Game on shelf for now, at least until the fps could hit 60 at least.
Before getting started, let it be known that I have played every FromSoftware game since Demon's Souls. I did not play King's Field or Armored Core. So in this review, when I am talking about the Soulsborne series, know it begins with Demon's Souls and ends with Sekiro. I was saddened when Miyazaki said he wouldn't be making any more games in the Dark Souls franchise. From Demon's Souls to Dark Souls 3, I felt that these games were just fantastic. I loved going in and out of different areas, using different builds, summoning other players/NPCs, and even doing a spot of PvP. I didn't know how I would move on not being able to play such a great series. Fast forward a little to Sekiro. I have not beaten Sekiro, but I do enjoy it. It is still installed, and I give it a shot every few weeks. The main issue with that game, or mainly myself, is that I am simply not good at parrying. Sekiro requires A LOT of parrying. That is not to say that it is a bad game by any means. Eventually, I will overcome the challenge of beating it. Still, it definitely did not bring me in like Bloodborne, and Dark Souls 3 did. Bloodborne and Dark Souls 3 are by far two of my favorite games to come out on PS4. I think I went through the entire system's life cycle with both of those games still installed to this day. People do their own prerogative with their money, but these games are not meant for one-time play-throughs. I encourage players to play through them even today with a different build than before and explore what these games really have to offer. Because that is where the love for these games lie. Now we move to Friday, February 25th, 2022. I did not know what to expect from Elden Ring. After being out of the FromSoftware games for a while now, since I did not play a lot of Sekiro, I was skeptical of even buying it on day one. As the release day got closer, I would see new videos showing what the game had to offer. I started to see a resemblance to Dark Souls 3, giving me the go-ahead to pick it up and play another Soulsborne game. I am glad I did this very thing. I didn't know how they would put a Soulsborne game into an open-world genre, but man, have they delivered. FromSoftware shows gamers that they can make an excellent, open, and unending game set in this genre. Reading the tutorial messages on the ground and fighting the weak enemy battles through the tutorial zone, I was definitely back in the saddle again (settle down, Steven Tyler). You open the final door and are revealed the gloriousness of Limgrave. Many reviews say this game looks like "PS3 graphics" or "no accessibility" for new players. I'm sorry, you must be new here. FromSoftware has always stuck to its guns on delivering challenging games. No one seemed to be this upset about Dark Souls 3 or Sekiro. Maybe this game had more hype than a usual FromSoftware game, but to say it is "not welcoming to new players" is such a waste of breath. All games are not made for everybody. For instance, Fortnite/Apex Legends are not accessible because every week, there is something new and garbage in my book. However, I am not going around making a big stink about it. The slogan, "mad cause bad," definitely sticks here, and to review bomb something because you keep dying is not a good discussion for anyone. Does Elden Ring have some flaws? Absolutely it does, but they have also doubled up on the quality of life things, like fast travel and the abundance of fast travel spots, or Sites of Grace. Do you know how nice it would have been to have a bonfire 10 steps from a boss door? Me neither. Another complaint I am seeing is the lack of hidden secrets on corners of the map. I watched a video of a popular streamer rage at there not being something on the corner of a map. I don't recall Breath of the Wild or Skyrim doing that either. This is exploration in a nutshell. If you find something in every nook and cranny, then the items you do find are not going to be as worth it. Am I biased to this series? Absolutely, but I call out bad things in games I enjoy too. I have not even started the PvP side of things yet. That could lead to the "2-second" lag that the PvP in these games has always had, which drives me nuts and is why I do not play it competitively. If you swing your weapons at me and roll, I shouldn't take damage from that swing two seconds later. We will see how that side of things plays out, as I won't dive into PvP until usually on my second play-through. In summary, FromSoftware delivers on an open-world Soulsborne game, especially when many games coming out cannot capitalize on the open-world aspect. It would be a 9 out of 10, but I found two greatswords and have dual-wielded them now, and that in itself is worth another point. Thanks for reading
Amazing work of art. Masterpiece. This game will be dissected for years to come.
masterpiece I can't say much other than this , just hope they will fix the performance anytime soon
having to give it a low score because the game is getting bombarded with such high uncredible ratings, Yes the game must be so good for you if you have a lot of experience for souls games but from a new players perspective, this game is terrible, its confusing and plain boring.
For those reviewers that say this is a perfect open world, have u tried playing elders scroll 5 or witcher 3. They are almost a decade old and still tons better. Try playing dying lights 2 instead of wasting your money on this nonsense. I played this BS software for 6 hours and decided that it is a crapware. I decided to delete it as it is a waste of my hard disk space.
There’s no Arabic language in the game as they have said, Demon’s Souls was came with Arabic language why wouldn’t Elden Ring came with Arabic language?
I respect everyone’s opinion and I respect all kinda games and I respect all devs But this trash is a pure Mind sick trash Making a stupid game just to ruin peoples mood I’ve spent 8 hours playing this trash and now i need to check my Diabetes Goddamn this trash and the sick devs also I just got foold by F media giving it 97 Score which is absolutely a joke Request everyone to not waste their money on this trash buy something else or subscribe to gamepass for a whole year
good game that's fun to play and is challenging if you're looking for something you'll play for a bit try this out it might be challenging if you've never played one of these games but i would definitely recommend i am giving it a 9 and not a 10 because this game might not be for everyone but definitely worth trying
It’s just a masterpiece from any point, gameplay is as good as it gets, lore and story is up there with DS and Blodborne, and it’s massive. nothing else needs to be added
A wonderful new addition to from softwares library of games filled with wonder and plenty of death
Game is no fun, easy as, nothing like all the hype was, so many bugs on pc and console. Bin it
I'm a fan of Fromsoft games, so I'm biased. I waited with great anticipation for this game for nearly 4 years since its announcement, and my high hopes and expectations were not just met but exceeded. These games are not for everyone, and Elden Ring is not an exception just because it's open-world. But for me, I'd infinitely prefer a game like Elden Ring over something like Assassin's Creed (No hate, just not for me). To me, this is the closest thing to the perfect ARPG out there - my only complaints are with the performance issues on PC. Unstable framerate, crashes, and invisible enemies in the open world - I've experienced all of these and they're not so minor as to not deserve scrutiny. I only docked 1 point for these issues because the rest of the game is so strong to me, and offers such a colossal amount of content, that I want to express how good the actual game is at a glance.
I honestly can't understand the 0 scores people are dropping on here, and some of the reason are hilarious. Frame rate drops DO happen, but for me it only ever on torrent ( the horse ) moving quickly in dense areas. This IS a souls game, souls combat, souls spells, souls layouts and souls brutality ( Unless you choose astrologer or build into cheesorceries ). Having said that they have greatly expanded on what you would call the souls game foundation. The open world is huge, very very dense and unique as hell. The bosses are amazing. It's just a huge open world souls game adventure. I can't say anything else other than if you like souls games you will love this game, and if you are new, then get used to dying and try not to post crap reviews because your trash lol And as always, remember, Git Gud.
It's honestly sad seeing all of these review bombings on one of the best games of the last decade, even with the technical issues this game is as close to perfect as you can get.
The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite !!
I would love to play and review this game but as of 28th February 2022 the game is unplayable. I am in Thailand and bought the pre-order of Elden Ring on PS4. I downloaded it and when I played the game, I found that the game was in "Mainland Chinese Language". No problem, I can change the language to "English". I was suprised that I could not do that. The game is only available in Chinese, Korean and Thai. What? What happened? In the SEA Region, the game has a "Region Lock" on its languages. This is not a Elden Ring problem but this is a Sony problem that affects Elden Ring gameplay. The only way I can play an english version of this game is to buy the game (again) on a US PSN account and then play it in my asian account. I do not desire to buy the game again when the game I did buy works perfectly fine (except the language lock). This is 2022, games should have an english language option no matter the region. Dear Bandai and Sony. Please please fix this. I am keen and excited to play Elden Ring. Thank you!
10/10 great game. Think of it like a fancy meal, everyone who puts 0/10 is so used to eating garbage they can't even taste anything anymore.
Being my first “Souls” game, I’ve thoroughly enjoyed myself so far. The game starts out in an open world that is yours to explore. The leveling system is great, combat is exemplary, and the graphics are beautiful. There’s not a single part of the game that doesn’t have unique terrain, enemies, or a breathtaking view. The enemies are expectedly hard, and all unique to their regards. Even if an enemy is overwhelming, you can always leave to level up and come back when you have better gear. Being able to hop into your buddy’s world or vice versa, and taking on areas/bosses add a whole other level of enjoyability. There’s something about teaming up on a boss that gives you hell and taking them from different angles with your friends that makes it that much more fun. I currently have 40 hours in the game, and still have 60+ more to go easily. So far, it’s been an incredible experience and it’s hard to put the controller down. I can’t wait to traverse more of the endless lands, and encounter even more incredible enemy’s.
Anything less than a 10 for this game should be criminally punished, game is an easy 20/10. Is it for everyone? Nope, should it be? Nope, if it is for you then you'll be a happy happy gamer... If it's not you'll be a salty troll. This game is the evolution of an amazing video game formula that has evolved and grown over the last 10 years. FromSoft puts everything they have into their games and it shows, it really shows.
Completely wonderful game. They outdone themselves, I can't wait to see From's next game.
I am giving Elden Ring an 8/10 due to my rating sitting at 7.6 so just rounding off... I tried Sekiro - quit. I tried Bloodborn - quit. I tried Demon Souls remake on PS5 and as much as I enjoyed it I also quit. I thought Elden Ring was the one the one souls-like that would pull me in and let me sing its praises from a mountain top. Unfortunately I cannot do that and I must say this is not the Masterpiece many claim it to be. Don't get me wrong this is a great game! But let's not get ahead of ourselves it's not perfect nowhere near perfect in fact. I absolutely love the exploration in Elden Ring the most and discovering whatever might my over that ridge line or what might be hidden within a dark cave or tomb somewhere. The armor and weapons look cool as f*** and the world the game is set in certain is interesting. Unfortunately for me, graphically it looks like a game from 2015 and the controls/combat still doesn't feel very tight which only made it more difficult to a guy who **** at Souls-Like games. Edit: as of March 5 2022 - I kept playing and I am now obsessed with Elden Ring. I believe I have finally managed to get over the learning curve at least for a beginner and see what the fuss is about with these Souls-like games. Elden Ring has immersed me quite like no other game has and I'm so happy that I gave it another chance to win me over. 9/10
100% lived up to my very high exceptions. I imagine I'll be well good and tided for the time being. No more new video games for me thanks :D
Am I the only sane person without mob mentality left? Man I don't know what is warranting these high scores, I've never seen so many misleading review scores in my entire life. There's no story really, just esoteric lore peppered around. While the open world can be visually interesting from a aesthetic point of view at times, the open world can feel boring, empty lots of space and no real incentive to fight a lot of the monsters. So the BOTW comparisons is laughable and Skyrim! lol i cant even... The game isn't bad its just 100% more of the same, don't let these people fool you about the magic of "discovering the open world" That this is straight up dark souls 4. same look, same feel same outdated graphics and same gameplay. You fight monsters in sometimes interesting fantasy settings, with extremely difficult combat. But 10s!! no!
Perfection. Builds upon every aspect of prior souls like games and perfects it while adding in a dynamic open world.
I know this game isn't going to be for everyone but anyone that has been playing all of the recent Souls games or like me I played the original Dark Souls for 8+ NGP playthroughs years ago, this game is a must buy it does suffer from poor voice animation but to be honest I read subtitles even when I can hear the voice acting just so it sticks better and I don't pay that much attention to the poorly animated mouths. I'm giving it a 10/10 not because it's a perfect game (those don't exist). But because this game is perfect for me and has filled me full of the wonder I originally felt when playing Skyrim for the first time in 2011 all while actually sporting a good combat system and the mounted combat is the best I've ever experienced.
Currently 20+ into the game and it's as near to perfect as a game can possibly be. It feels like the sort of game you dream up in your head and can only hope exists one day
The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite
too **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** **** hard.literally the dark souls of videogamesliterally the dark souls of videogamesliterally the dark souls of videogamesliterally the dark souls of videogamesliterally the dark souls of videogamesliterally the dark souls of videogamesliterally the dark souls of videogamesliterally the dark souls of videogamesliterally the dark souls of videogamesliterally the dark souls of videogamesliterally the dark souls of videogames
This is the best from software experience that I had and maybe the best game that i played
All the souls' saga in 1 game, add TES freedom and get Elden Ring. It could be some people doesn't like, but as a game is one of the best of all times.
The most accessible and expansive game From soft has every made. Incredible world design that rewards exploration.
The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite
Eng/Ita The souls evolution that we needed, in an open world gameplay whit lots of secret that gift the player whit new objects that evolve your possibilities . We have semplification mixed whit evolution too from dark souls like the ashes of war that let you add a unic move on your weapon and change the ability scaling of that weapon so the player has a big freedom to play as he like. The boss fight are amazing, even the secondary , the environment are huge and different, filled whit secrets that expand your gameplay, and the style of the world take inspiration from all the from software game but having a own soul that distinguish Elden ring from his predecessor . The main problem for me was the difficulty wich start pretty easy and than slap your face whit the first big boss fight of the game which is much harder than anything you have met before in the game, but teaching you whit brute force how the new gameplay is and telling you to use everything you have to win. Graphics is that of an old gen game, not amazing but still good since the game is not an exclusive for one console and need to run on every platform My true vote is 9/10 but I give 10/10 for the dumb people review bombing whitout even playing the game L’evoluzione al gameplay souls che serviva in salsa open world, con numerosi segreti che premiano donando oggetti che ampliano sempre di più le possibilità del giocatore, insieme a semplificazioni per variare il proprio gameplay tramite le numerose ceneri di guerra che oltre ad aggiungere una mossa diversa per ognuna cambiano lo scaling o il tipo di danno per l’arma. Le Boss fight sono magnifiche , comprese quelle secondarie e ambientazioni varie che passano dall’inquietante all’onirico, unendo elementi presenti in dark soul, bloodborne e sekiro ma aggiungendo una propria anima all’interno. La pecca principale è la curva di difficoltà che è fin troppo ripida passando da relativamente semplice nei primi momenti fino all’incontro con il primo boss importante che invece è una terapia d’urto al nuovo stile di gameplay che spinge il giocatore ad usare tutto quello che ha a propria disposizione e che l’open world ti dona. La grafica è quella di un videogioco old gen ma considerando la necessità di girare su qualsiasi piattaforma è comunque un buon risultato Lascio 10/10 solo per le recensioni dei frustrati che non lo hanno nemmeno giocato ma il mio voto sarebbe 9/10
Epic game. Some really needless review bombing going on that I hope is removed asap.
Anyone who rated this game at 0 is a cuck. Same asswipes that bought cod vanguard and defend it. Dumb **** don’t like narrative based games.
There’s no Arabic subtitles!!! How can I play this game! Been waiting for 3 years now, soo disappointed
The official MENA account of bandai said the game will support Arabic language, but they lied and the game doesn't support Arabic!!!! How come! The Arabic language are spoken by hundreds of millions!
This Game is phenomenal, I want to adress difernt versions of the game. I purchased it for both PS5 & Xbox Series X, I have seen Digital Foundry say it ran better on the PS5 but I believe that if you have the right TV it runs and looks better on. The Series X, I am playing this on a LG OLED pub C1, with the Vsync. So if your fretting over which version to buy like I was and don't want to buy both I recommend the Xbox if you have a Vsync TV. Now the game review . This game has everything I love about the Dark Souls Series and wraps it up in a huge open world. Character building adventure PvP and more I will be playing this Game All year and for years to come.
I have play 10hours and doesnt make out off limgrave!! i have beat some secondary boss but a troll is blocking my way in a mine cave! the game is fun, not easy but not difficult, the music are great and the journey excellent so many thing to do, and no the world is not empty and after work i m going to play it and see wwhat this game reserve for me
I have always loved
I had been waiting this game for so long.unfortunately, bought it from psn hk and found there is no language option which I could only play with Chinese and Korean language, definitely a bumper.
Why Wasted your time for playing games like that , the physics is bad and the story is bad I think it’s not good game …
FromSoftware have outdone themselves. The open world gameplay is fantastic and builds upon a design philosophy that rewards curiosity, creativity and the player's determination to overcome obstacles. The world is filled with things to discover and since there are no markers on the map that instantly spoil any feeling of adventure, the lands between feel even more big and mysterious than they actually are. The difficulty forces the player to use every item and skill that is available to them and utilize them in creative ways. It might be frustrating, especially for new players who may not see the possibility to strengthen their characters before returning to an enemy that seemed too hard previously. There's always a organic difficulty setting inside of the game's mechanics, that lets players choose how hard an encounter should be. I don't want to make this too long and most of the things have already been said. What makes this game special are the small and epic moments that truly feel like the player's on an adventure through a unique and mysterious world that is designed with the craftsmanship of true masters of their work.
tremendous game, deep story, extraordinary gameplay, an entertaining open world with many things to do, it is the definition of the souls genre, incredible level design, incredible bosses, charismatic characters each one has their story to tell. an incredible job by hidetaka miyazaki it is an immersive world that you immerse yourself and you just want to investigate everything it has, incredible artistic style something very dark, it is a fresh and innovative air to the GENRE worth every penny.
God this game is so fun it’s CRACK. Gorgeous in design and very fun. Highly recommend
The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite
Absolute Peak of From Software games. The sheer amount of content available for the player to explore is absurd.
its a good game, framerates are an issue but they will fix it eventually....
Elden ring is Fromsoftware at it's best. The world is alive, the bosses are thrilling and the music is breathtaking. The only flaw is how the game runs, but despite performance, the game is a masterpiece.
Amazing game, it indeed has its own appeal, you either love it or hate it, I absolutely love it. it is everything I expected and more :)
As a player whose played every souls game, this is easily the best souls game , actually the best game in general. First 2 days and i have already clocked in 22hours, and in those hours i never felt bored, nothing at the back of my mind. Experiencing, playing the game just feels so special and magical.
I'm reading the negative reviews, and wondering if (besides performance issues, of which I have none) and asking myself "did this people play the same game I did?". The criticism they do is the opposite of what this game actually is. One review said that the world looked bleak and repetitive. Wow... it is the exact opposite. Maybe they played for just 20 minutes?? I played for 35 hours. I didn't even complete 1/3 of the game. At every turn I am astonished of how incredible the world looks. Build diversity seems huge. Soloing bosses is actually hard. Boss mechanics are one of the most creative I've seen in any Souls game. Multiplayer is greatly improved compared to past souls games. Basically, this is Dark Souls definitive edition and then some more, in a very well executed open world. Every open world area feels utterly distinct. Jeez, I have no idea how anyone can say "every area looks bleak and repetitive". It is striking how distinctive each area is. Maybe they were playing another game and didn't notice. Also, area traversal is a puzzle in itself, since there are lots of huge vertical slopes. That prevents one from just rushing through a zone and favors exploration. This game is mindbowingly amazing. I would give it an 11 if I could. I've never played anything even remotely close to this in terms of how good it is. That doesn't mean everyone would love this game since some people are just not into souls games, might find it too hard or that it takes too much time, or just not into fantasy settings. But then no game is meant to please all the crowds, but rather one specific crowd very well.
Best game I ever played ,if u like an adventure and some quality story u should try it out !!
I am new to SOUL game, but experienced with witcher 3, red dead and GTA type of open world game. I only purchased this open world game after all these amazing critic review… After spending about 5hrs on the game over the course of 2 days, I’m disappointed and frustrated. I am still at the starting part of the limegrave. There are serious problem with the camera control during combat or maybe I am just not used to it. Tested confessor then astrologist class both very challenging for beginner. Honestly, I had high hope for this game, but the game play ****. It’s boring and graphics aren’t next generation for ps5
What there not to like about this epic game. Giant open world to explore, full of things to discover Rewarding and punishing combat Morce content than most players will ever need. Open-class development tree that’s ripe for tweaking I gave this 10 as some imbeciles has rated it 0. Because they are average gamers at best and cry when a game does not hold their hands.
From software ha trovato l'equilibrio giusto tra un souls e un open world..
Beautiful, I've only played through the first section of the game and i have already seen so many different creatures and enemies. Theres a lot to explore and the bosses are very challenging but a lot of fun. Every enemy feels so unique, they all have different animations that are nice to see even when they’re destroying you.
This game is totally overrated. character animations are like wood. gaming media gave this game a high rating for money. I definitely do not recommend this game.
The Greatest Game ever made. This game subverts expectations in so many ways. Must play.
The BEST adventure game i ever played. World design, exploration, gameplay, artistic direction it's all about masterpiece.
Not a surprise that it is a shock for the casual gamer. This is not ubisoft, and thank god we have Miyazaki.
They have taken the winning formula of their previous games: breath-taking varied locations, a ridiculous range of enemies, difficult but rewarding combat, and way too much choice, then added even more choice. The game world is truly spectacular, with each environment being beautiful in its own way. I'm about 15 bosses in and they're exactly what I'd expect from a Soulsborne game so no complaints there. The combat is as good as their other games, but feels fresh and more customisable with additions like ashes of war, spirit ashes, the wondrous physick flask, and cracked/other pots. The thing that really sets this game apart is the endless variety of the world, there is a ridiculous amount of meaningful, distinct content. You'll very much have the "just one more cave" urges that made Skyrim so popular. I have seen some reviewers complain about the graphics and framerate but both have been perfect for me.
People nowadays care too much performance and graphics because few stutters here and there does not condone a negative score there are ligament reasons why you can not like the game complaining about graphics is next level entitlement
This game a an absolute masterpiece. I didn't even know what it was until about 2 or 3 months ago, so no hype train or souls stand here. I've only ever played DS3 and never got anywhere close to beating it cause I ****, but this game was different. When I get stuck, there is always somewhere else I can go to find more new and fun experiences. Never have I played a game with an open world this large that continues to surprise me time and time again. Truly, a masterpiece.
Might as well be called Dark Souls 4, or clunky souls. Horrid slow combat and bad animations. Recommend playing Ghosts of Tsushima instead, or the Demon’s Souls Remake.
Elden Ring honestly has to be one of the best games that I have ever played. The way Miyazaki reinvented the Dark Souls formula and implemented it on a massive and dense open world is perfect. The gameplay despite being more or less the same feels so fresh compared to other souls games due to the sheer variety of weapons that can be used. The mount combat is also very fun and I often find myself clearing out whole encampments while on a mount. The bosses feel challenging and high in quality. All in all, a very solid game. Easily 10/10
Couple updates away from perfection, this is a fun skill based mess that feels like it hated how simple dark souls was.
Very dated graphics! Too hard for new players that just want to have some fun! And the bugs and graphics issues are not acceptable on this day and age!
If you like to think the addition of a jump button is a game changer than this game is for you! Do you like rolling through attacks because the game makes you invincible when you do, then hell yes! Do you like to have amazing art to look at but also enjoy graphics on par with ps4 opening day 2012?! Do I have a game for you! This game blows.
Probably the most overrated game in history. This is just another Souls game but open world, with last gen graphics and an awful performance. Not a masterpiece and far from it.
The game is just incredible. The combat is amazing. The world is vast and full of itens and challenges. The dungeons are fantastic. The visual design is gorgeous. The best From Software game and one of the best games I’ve played. In my point of view, the frame rate problem is not critical and doesn’t significantly the overall experience, but needed to be considered in my final rating. Don’t listen review bombs. It is a remarkable game and deserves its acclaim.
Add English patch for digital purchase in Asia please, we're thrive to play the game with English description in Item, dialogue rather then Thai, Chinese ..... I can't even play the game after I bought it as it didn't have English. really weird release to people here in Asia
A breath of fresh air on soulsborn games. Yes its not 8k hdr 21/9 ++ but the scenery is gorgeous I keep finding cool places and dungeon. A lot of creepy New bosses and wild range of monstres. Thé map is huge and parcouring those desolate lands on horse is verry fun. A lot of mistery to discover everywhere.
The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite
Those giving the negative reviews either don’t understand what makes a game outstanding, as this really is one of those special one of a kind games. The rewarding feeling you get, as well as the rewards you get from defeating tough enemies, are all so worth it. The huge map compliments that nicely, as there’s so much for you to see and do. 10/10
This game is so hard, i wish i didnt buy it. it drives me crazy, i played 10 hours. İ cant get a refund
Now that the casuals have got bored of angrily hammering in 1/10 reviews because they died a few times, rather than achieving instant gratification, hopefully the reviews will become a little more representative.
Best from software game so far, so Juve and full of content and lore. Nearly perfect
This game is getting review bombed by people who are coddled by games that hold their hand the hole time. Here is my take on their points. 1. No story. It has a story, it's just not told to you immediately, you have to actually play 2.Empty. This game is full of enemy parties and minibosses, I'm not sure what **** that is. 3. Graphics are awful. Fromsoftware never focuses on graphics, it focuses on gameplay and story. It is still the best looking game out there. 4. Slow game play No, you just have a slow brain. The gameplay is different form the other games and can be felt easily if you've played the other game. That all I have to say. The smooth brains betting the negative reviews are gonna stay ignorant and dumb as ****
I bought the game for arabic language, You have said there is arabic language then it’s a lie
There is no Arabic language................................................
I have only played for 10 hours so far but it is an unforgettable experiance.This was my first soulslike so I had no bias going into the game and was at first unsure of purchasing it. The boss’s are difficult but not blatantly unfair and there is great variety amongst them and normal enemies. I chose to go as prisoner as my class as the sorceries are extremely fun to use. The melee conbat is brilliant because of the depth it has and how many different weapons and Ashes of war to chose from The performance on the PS5 version I have been playing could be improved but doesn’t take away too much of my enjoyment. The Legend of Zelda Breath of the Wild set the mark for what an open world game should be and Elden Ring has built upon those stepping stones and improved upon it. It has surpassed Breath of the Wild in my opinion, but botw is still an absolutely brilliant game and still one of the best. Elden Ring will be talked about for years to come and will never be forgotton.
I’m having an absolute blast with this game. It is my favorite game from FromSoftware!
Great open world and awesome enemy design, mostly rewarding character progression. But fails in terms of standard accessibility options as well as modern graphics, UI, and sound design. In those areas, the game feels just outdated like being from the 2010s. All in all leads to a mixed experience and, in my opinion, it is not worth the current price tag. Better wait for a sale (and some performance optimization patches).
I had pretty hight hopes for the game but I was pretty disappointed. Especially after playing demons souls which was a fantastic game. My biggest problem with the game is how awful it looks, at first I thought it was because I was playing in performance mode so I switched to quality mode, and it still looked awful . Like a PS3 game. So I thought oh it's because it's just not optimized for PS5 so I got it on PC too and no. It did not look any better and ran even worse. My second problem with the game is how bland the open world is. Yes tons of bosses in caves that are basically just normal enemies with larger health **** actual world itself was so empty.. it was a good idea but hopefully they execute the idea better in the future
An Amazing Game and A Wonderful world there is so much to discover and a great boss fight you will encounter. It’s a masterpiece for everyone like the souls game and should the new one give it a try. But they should add the Arabic language for subtitles and the menu.
One of the best games ever made The natural development of the Souls games FromeSoftware did an awesome job Anyone who liked any of their previous games must play Elden Ring
Still dont understand why this game got so many 10/10 reviews. Played DS1,3, Sekiro and somehow I couldnt get much of a feeling that this game is a masterpiece like any other DS fan boys did. This game claims to be an open world game yet still there werent chances to feel that it actually is. Vastness of map became an stress and frustration since most of monsters you encounter are just the repetition of previous series. Even character's attacking motions are just same. Why would I have to suffer through this stressful world given that only reward is to feel the same thing in previous DS series? Elden Ring is playable on next gen console but graphic is just the same as DS 3 with only a little bit of upgrade. I see no progress on graphics when compared to another triple A games and this game got 97 out of 100 from critics? Hope I could refund it but cant because I already spent 2 hours trying to kill Tree Sentinel, which is, of course, totally ruined by poor optimization.
REALLY AMAZING GAME, fun to explore and kill some enemies, but this game is not made for everyone :D And its my first time playing a Souls game
This is the best game ever made. New to this type of games, but still having a blast
One of the best games of all time. Best open world in terms of freedom and exploration since Skyrim.
Fun game, but the PS3 era graphics and constant fps drops are unacceptable on current generation
By far the best vision of the Dark Souls formula thus far. The open world is incredible - you can literally stumble into an adventure at any point. Punishing difficulty as always but I relish the challenge.
I am 25 hours into the game and I want more and more and more. Being a player who usually likes to rush games filled with useless content, it IS something when a game convinces me that it is worth losing hours and hours looking for the smallest details hidden here and there. Elden Ring is kind of everything you have already seen in other Miyazaki games put together in a very smart way, plus an incredible blend of open world landscape and intelligent level design. Legacy dungeons are just what you would expect from a From Software game, with an added dimension of verticality and an even more complex construction, while outside the dungeons you have a vast world full of secrets and dangers (with respective rewards). After 15 hours I went back to the first area and found A LOT of things left to do, and none of them were boring or useless (unlike most open world games). The only problems are really "just" technical. I hope they will be solved soon enough, but it IS quite a scandal that a cross-gen game does not run properly on any platform. On horse there is massive pop-in, as well as when you respawn, and frame drops are far from being rare even in performance mode. At least, I found there is less input lag and much faster loadings (thanks to PS5 SSD). Dying is less painful now that you can respawn in less than 5 seconds.
This is not a game... THIS IS THE GAME for all the true lovers of From Software world. Great first step in an open world concept, the only disappointment I could have is making it a lot easier than their respective titles, but that was to be expected if they wanted to try to hook new categories of players. Exploration allows you to find objects and upgrade so that you get super powered when you decide to devote yourself to the main story. Anyway really TY for this game
Combat is best class. Enemy designs are outstanding. Artistic direction is top notch. This game is truly a Masterpiece!
I would love to play but... WHY THERE'S NO LANGUAGE OPTION? I'm in Asia and the only language available when I insert the disc is... guess what? CHINESE! I've played Dark Souls 3, Sekiro, Demon's souls and every game has full support in English. That shouldn't be so difficult to patch, right? Or at least give us a reason for that, tell your costumers that it will be patched or smth. The game looks gorgeous and everything, I have no complain, but it's simply unplayable in Chinese.
If I had to describe Elden ring in one sentence I'd say that its the embodiment of all the FromSoft games combined and more. Elden ring has been everything I hoped it to be from the ambiance to the vibrance of the world from the diversity of the enemies to the story( lore) everything is what I've come to know and love of the FromSoft games it's save to say in my opinion that this has been the best game they've ever made. Yes the performance could have been better it doesn't really bother me but I can understand that this is a new experience for the Devs too they've never made a game like this but I trust that they'll fix it in no time.
One of the most anticipated games of the year and it is shameful that it is dubbed only in English. Could be the perfect time to make a much more quality distribution
Game of the Year. The lower user rating is due to the review bombing of players who haven't played a single fromsoft title and expect a cake walk.
I love this game so far. Last year to challenge myself, I decided to play Demon's Souls, Dark Souls 1, 2, and 3, Bloodborne, and Sekiro back to back, having not played any of them before, as a challenge. At first it seemed impossibly difficult, and I thought I had made a terrible mistake, but eventually something clicked in my head and I understood. Thinking of the games as being punishingly difficult is a miscategorization of what they are doing. They are, more than anything, trying to get you to play them on their own terms, rather than your own. In. a way, it felt like learning to play Tony Hawk Pro Skater. It wanted something very specific from me, that wasn't exactly in my wheelhouse, but once I started to pay attention to what it was asking, the games opened up to me. Elden Ring feels like the culmination of every experiment, every idea that the studio has tried from Demon's Souls onward. The levels are some of the most polished, most fully realized they have ever produced. The bosses are cool and unique, the overworld feels full of possibility and excitement. I also think it's the most fair and giving game that they've produced of this kind. If you feel stuck on something, there are hundreds of other areas to explore, and lower level enemies to fight and gain experience and hone your skills on, rather than being stuck in 1-2 places, or going through the paces of farming for xp or resources in an old spot. If you don't like it, that's fine, it doesn't have to be for you, but personally I love it, and if you're trying the game and feel like you might have made a mistake, I would ask, before you give it up and write it off, just take some time to go explore. See what you find. Try doing something different, experiment with a different build. There's a lot of opportunity in this game, if you go looking for it.
Amazing - have completed all Dark souls, Sekiro etc.. this is the best - the open world is so much better than those doing open world games for years.
Worst Game 2022 ... bad game bad souls born bad and borning story bad frime rift bad combat stiles bad bad bad dont buy this junk game I want to refine my money sorry miazaky you are very thief the face and art of bosses is very bad I preferred play again bloodborne and demons souls and sekiro
This is the pinnacle of From Software world and gameplay design. They have found a way to perfectly convert Sekiro's gameplay mechanics and blend them with existing Dark Souls ones. The open world is artistically the best one yet.
It's Elden ring and it's amazing. it is the best fromsoftware games so far. don't listen to the people giving it zero because its hard, if you have enough iq to finish a game you can finish this too. Elden ring is not famous for just being hard but for being a great game defiantly the best game I've ever played next to bloodborne.
This is the greatest game I’ve ever played. It’s an accumulation of fromsoftware’s greatest works. An open world dark souls is the game I’ve always dreamed of, and being able to experience it all with friends is an incredible experience. This game is a masterpiece
Blows every other open world game out of the water, huge amount of customization and fantastic combat, runs perfectly on PS5.
I'll keep it short with no spoilers: Amazing game, no tedious or boring mechanics, vast but not too big of a world to explore. Amazing lore, story, combat, exploration, quality of life mechanics. Graphics are pretty good on most platforms. If you like any other FromSoft game, you'll love this one. Looking forward to seeing how it improves over time.
Overly hyped, bug ridden mess, terrible UI system so I would suggest strongly to avoid for 3-6 month until patched, personally no further interest in the game Any review showing 90+ scores have clearly been paid and bribed to push it
There is no arabic language you promised us but you failed us
Best game ever since last 7 years,, thank you from software for this masterpiece
The same old formula in an open-world setting, the game is buggy with outdated graphics and 35 fps in "performance mode". The "story" is quite unoriginal too. From a game with such high scores, I expected a lot more but this game is quite mediocre all around.
The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite
Top 3 from software game, still exploring that MASSIVE and beautiful world. I don't need a movie with beautiful graphics, i need a GAME.
They said will add Arabic language but they did not what a joke, no Arabic localization
One of the best games i've ever played. A dream for every FromSoft Fan and the best game since the Witcher 3
Truly game of the year material, massive interconnected world with the same incredible art direction and map design. Gameplay felt a bit too easy due to the sheer amount of tools you have at your disposal. Hope Fromsoft does not fall into the trap of making their future games too easy to get wider audience.
Look at all these insecure **** handing out 0s for inconsequential things like third party problems or some grass pop-in; showing they havent played the game at all. There has been footage of this games' graphics for months. Everyone crying bc of the graphics is an idiot. Also, there is nothing even close to blighttown levels of perfo. The game itself IS a masterpiece. Maybe not a flawless technical one; but its an all around victory lap for FROM software. An actual festival of content and beauty, and a world; that holds many a mystery and adventure. Not giving his game the credit it deserves would be a crime. Its truly awe inspiring stuff.
The best bossfights of the souls saga, also good graphics, the connection in the world is the best, the only way to beat the connection of the DS1 is with an open world and Miyazaki made an excellent work with it, the boss fights are EPIC, literally, te soundtrack is really good, and the new mechanics well implemented, the only bad thing is the drop rate of fps.
Best game I’ve ever played, period. Gives me the same feeling I got when I first played Mario 64 for the first time when I was younger. I think it will be a long while before something this great comes out again. I had to put a review in to help counteract the zeros, crazy people doing that.
This game seems to have the community split in half, just like Dark Souls 2 and Sekiro before it. And I am glad to be on the side of the community that enjoys **** far it’s the best souls game I’ve played,and I’ve played all of them. The open world, the OST , the weapons , the everything. Also the sheer quality of the bosses.I think I’m in love But you’ve already read lots of praises so let’s talk about the downsides of the game. So far it’s optimization is not perfect on ps5(I hear it’s a lot worse on pc) but I am sure it will be fixed. I don’t get people who give bad ratings to the game just because it stutters. Jeez it’s been two days until release ,have some patience. It’s graphics are mediocre for a GOTY contender. I’d give it 6/10 or 7/10 . TBH i didn’t really expect this game to be the best looking game, but it doesn’t by any means look bad. People saying it looks like a ps3 game are simply ridiculous. The part that left me with a sour taste in my mouth( I wouldn’t say dissapointed because I already suspected it might be this way) is that it didn’t really bring too many changes on the previous combat sytems of the game. I would be nice if the combat had more touches of sekiro and bloodborne,not just dark souls, and also add the three types of dodging( rolling like dark souls,sidestepping like sekiro and dashing like bloodborne) and make them depend on equip burden and armor The combat system is still a masterpiece ,but maybe it’s mechanics are perhaps a bit,old? Otherwise the world is great , the bosses are masterpieces and the combat system is still fun and addictive and the lore is fabulous.
Elden is probably if not definitely the best game produced by FromSoftware and possibly one of the best games of all time. The content is vast and worth the money but for those not prepared for the challenges that come with the game, I would not recommend it as it takes some effort and learning to beat the game. However, while the game can be extremely difficult at times the game provides ways and means to overcome these difficulties without holding the players hands through every step. While the graphics are almost the same as ps4, everything else in the game compensates for it. The world is huge full of sites not usually found in any other game as the world feels built from scratch and the environment is specially built based on that. While the world is huge, it is not littered with meaningless quests and areas which makes almost every discovery meaningful and not like a chore. While battling on horseback need a bit of getting used to and learning, the overall horseback mechanics are almost excellent and smooth without it feeling too clunky or restrictive. The game is excellent and challenging with a vast open world and content that feels like it never runs out but does not feel like a chore hence continues to give a sense of adventure from the beginning to the very end of the game.
The year is 2022. - 20FPS dips on a 12900K, 64GB DDR5 RAM, PCIE 4.0 M.2 and an RTX 3090 - No ultrawide support - 60FPS cap - Defended to the death by souls fans and I'm not even complaining about the difficulty... No excuse to not support those things when I can fire up indie games from 10 years ago and they do.
Calling this game a must play is just wrong. The overall critic rating is a result of about 50 hardcore souls-fans that are willing to ignore many, many issues and only focus on the thrill of endless boss fights (admittedly - definitely thrilling). But this game is so far from perfect. In terms of visuals and performance - it is very far from next gen. The animations, the frame rate, the pop-in. The world almost never responds to the player. I like the art style but next to games like Guardians or the Galaxy or Horizon ll it looks like a sharper PS4 game at best. Some weapons are good but the overall combat system is unbalanced. Story is told in very lazy way but no one cares about that. Enemy design (especially bosses of course) is often brilliant and the music is fantastic. The open world is fun to explore but to stay it's revolutionary is far from the truth imo. The only things that makes this game so exciting is chemistry in your brain. The thrill of defeating a giant boss is amazing, and the hard, fixed difficulty is what makes every encounter so intense. Same for exploration and the sense of constant danger. It's no wonder that From Software refused to add an easy mode. Without the sense of accomplishment after beating a boss, without the constant fear and sense of danger, this game has almost nothing to offer, and it's definitely not a next-gen, must play title.
Sorry for everyone experiencing these huge performance issues on PC, but from my own expierience 40 or so hours in, this game is a monumental piece of art that engrosses with everything it does.
The most generous of games from the developers. You have to know how to make the difference between technical problems and the great part given to the artistic direction, gameplay, level design etc... Exploration is rewarded at its fair value as long as you like to get lost in the gigantic universe on offer. A bit simple on some bosses if you leveled up a bit quickly. it speaks to my gamer soul
There is no Arabic language The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite
Same crap different day. Ridiculous gameplay and graphics with "ghosts" running all about distracting you from what's going on. Combat is unbalanced and sluggish. Another one of those overhyped dogs that I got **** into buying.
Two words Absolute Masterpiece, ignore the bad reviews there just hating for meaningless reasons
Absolutely masterpiece 2022, best from software game by far, u cant let this game out
Absolutely amazing do not listen to these review bombers. This game is incredible, the performance issues have been massively overexaggerated by what I can only assume are people who are more upset that the game does not look and or feel like your cookie cutter ubisoft open world where everything is spelled out so that a 5 year old could follow along.There are frame drops every now and then I'll admit, but you will not notice half the time cause there so minor, plus you'll be to busy exploring/fighting in a world so beautiful and cared for you won't mind. Also others seem to be saying that this game is empty, devoid, and samey. This could not be further from the truth, it's painfully obvious that many of these players made it 2 hours in a gave up. As for me I have play around 30 hours and have discovered probably 30% of the map, crawled countless dungeons, fought epic bosses, listened to exceptional music, and had the most fun I've ever had whilst gaming. To see this getting trashed is a travesty to game design. This is a technical marvel, a game of our generation, to sit there and get butt hurt cause the graphics aren't Horizon Forbidden West is an insult. Ask yourself is the game fun, and if the answer is yes who gives a flip( btw the game is beautiful). I am also hearing these same players complain about there being no story with is absolutely absurd, because it literally gives you lore and story with every character and boss and environment you meet. Do not be swayed by these crybabies who need there hands held while they take a dump. BUY THIS GAME if it's the only game you ever get, if your not a mental reject you will understand why this is one of the greatest games of our generation. #thanksforcomingtomytedtalk
One of the best games ever made—period. The culmination of everything FromSoftware has created over the past 15 years, and a true masterpiece in almost every aspect. This will stand the test of the time and be considered among the classics in video game history. Please play this game.
Wish I could give it a higher score but unfortunately this game like others is just to much without other modes! I have 3 kids and a full time job and to expect me to play and just be constantly killed is dumb/stupid some people just don’t have the time. Put in an easier mode!
I'm playing on a PC and with the settings second from the top I can play without any problems. The content of the game is simply amazing. Everything has evolved and it's a real culmination of FromSoftware's work.
Promise to add Arabic subtitles and they didn't. We want Arabic subtitles that at least what we deserve.
False promises to introduce the Arabic language to the game I hope the language will be added with the next update
simply the best game I've ever played, doubt it's gonna be surpassed in years to come
Graphics aren't amazing but let's not pretend that fromsoft is known for their graphics since theyre not AAA. Excellent combat, exploration, lore(if you investigate), etc.
Absolutely amazing, Fromsoft has mastered their unique SoulsLike genre with this game. It truly feels like their magnum opus. Combat has been refined from previous titles with extra options to tackle bosses and other opponents. Seriously I can't believe I've been playing Dark Souls without jump attacks or guard counters, they feel great to use. Absolutely jawdropping boss fights and stunning art direction in The Lands Between. I constantly have to take a moment to stop what I'm doing and just take in what I'm seeing. A refined version of Dark Souls wrapped in a huge open world with lots of secrets and hours upon hours of exploration.
My entire experience for this game so far is purchasing it in PSN Asia, downloading it, and opening the game only to find out that all the subtitles & entire User Interface is locked on Chinese, Thai, and/or Korean language. I cannot even read or begin understand what I'm seeing on the Title Screen. I don't understand why you have a game with English Audio but everything else is locked to be not English. I've seen players resorting to the use of Google Camera to translate every screen but the players don't deserve such hassle for a game they paid for. The game clearly stated that it supported English Language during the pre-release. It is strange how any other game supports multi-language but a major title from Fromsoftware would lock languages based on region. I am not playing this game unless an English Pack is added nor will I purchase an English version of the game from Western PSN store and double the profit of those who made this decision. It is unreasonable that you would lock the Language based on region. NOT EVERYONE THAT PURCHASES FROM PSN ASIA ARE CHINESE, THAI, OR KOREAN. This is the first and last Bandai game I am ever going to buy.
DO NOT pay attention to the idiots review bombing this masterpiece, hundreds of people are giving this game 0/10 for some minor stuttering issues and most of them probably haven't actually played the game, it's sad to see. If you enjoy the soulsborne genre elden ring is a must play, simple as, and even if you haven't been able to get into it before this is a good starting point, in short buy this game, it's incredible
The game seems to be developed on ps3, the graphic is awful, the lazy developers are not even capable to reach a stable 60fps on series x, the assets are completely ricicled from past games, the loading times are too long. Despect to these unacceptable issues, i give 2 becouse the gameplay sometimes is quite funny, at despect of the frustrating difficulty of the bosses.
I really love art and the game feels like a mix between bloodborne and skiro what a masterpiece
For anyone who has played a Souls game before and enjoyed it, this is an absolutely massive open world full of adventure, intricate level design, wild boss fights, trippy landscapes, and trademark bizarro storytelling. Absolutely mind-blowing. For first-timers: Yes, these games have a learning curve, and admittedly it may not seem so fun the first several hours while you're learning how to fight. Focus on discovery, pick easier fights, and ease your way in. These games are like learning to drive a manual transmission - it's a pain at first, but once you pass that threshold of learning it becomes so satisfying and fun it's hard to imagine going back to automatic (or to a typical game with button mashing combat and cheesy Hollywood narrative). Many of the negative reviews seem to obsess over performance issues but I have played 40 hours and never experienced anything affecting my playthrough. Many others seem to be posting negative user reviews without having played much of the game, possibly as a reaction to all the positive critic reviews. These games aren't for everyone, but if you judge the game by it's artistic merits it really is something special.
Been playing since launch and barely ran into any issues, well major ones. Very minor with frame drops on PS5. Overall pretty good
the game meets my expectations, great quality of bosses and scenarios, as well as the setting and unique music that fits perfectly!
1- This is a soul game like dark souls and Sekiro. So it is hard it is long and it is amazing. If you are a fan of normal to easy games then this is not your game. 2- The frame rate is not 60 but it is always above 30 so you won't experience any lag or something like that. 3- The graphic and design of the game are totally different from soul games. It is color full and very amazing. so forget those dar dungeons where you hardly could see monters. The game is one of a kind. I am very happy it is a multicross game so all players from different dimensions could play it.
The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite
interesting game, looks a little old, but it's interesting to play, unlike the PC version. on which a bunch of all sorts of jambs for the platform
A Masterpiece. The Greatest game made in a very long time. A must play for any PS5 owner.
A masterpiece indeed. Not only it shows the hard work that was put in this game for years but also the dedication and attention, it truly is the best souls like game
Absolute 10/10 game. An absolute artistic masterpiece, that also happens to play brilliantly. I've never been huge into the souls games until PS5 era, and I'm so happy I have been able to get into it and have fun. The exploration aspect is just so cool, and the boss designs so far have been perfect for me- challenging but not overly so where I feel like I am getting stuck.
Wonderful adventure. Played on PC, a little stutter and could be optimized better. Despite all that, the game is so amazing and memorable. It's so good that I kept thinking playing Elden Ring during work. Some love/hate this game because of the difficulty. I'm neutral regarding difficulty. However, the sense of adventure
Xbox one X Absolutely amazing. Game looks and feels great. The sound design and soundtrack fits every area perfectly. NPCs aesthetics, including enemy asthetica have been turned to 11. I can literally only say positive things about this game.
And our enemy is in Arabic, and they did not add it, and the ads were only translated
Just a really good game on more or less every aspect. Like the other souls games its a solid game experience and theres is nothing to complain about. I LOVE IT
Simply unbelievable. For all explorers and adventurers out there - this game is full of surprises and secrets. And it just keeps on giving. My new favorite game.
The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite!
Aside form some performance issues this game is one of my favourites. Level of freedom and sence of discovery is staggering.
So far, this feels like Cyberpunk 2022. Rave reviews, and then you play the game and go wtf!? This plays like a 10 year old iOS game lacking a tutorial and pretending to be Breath of the Wild. A seemingly endless grind where you have to be fast enough to finish fighting the camera and poor controls before you get one-shotted by an overpowered mob. And the story so far is a pretentious mumbo jumbo excuse for grinding. So disappointed. Hopefully it gets better soon…
Only Chinese Text, cannot even play the game. Wrote to their customer service Hi! I'm based in Thailand and preordered Elden Ring. Sadly, the game is only in Chinese. I cannot read Chinese and my Thai Gamer friends can't either. I've bought and enjoyed 5 of your games such as Bloodborne, DS, Sekiro. Never had this Chinese language problem. When will you add English language to Elden Ring asia? Kind Redgards A very good customer
The game is boring. I can appreciate the scale but it literally is a soulsborne game in that you just have to roll around until you can attack. Sekiro is way better in every conceivable way
Absolutely amazing, graphics may bot be the best but I love the tons of new weapon arts and different new kinds of weapons and spells there are, on top of that the designs are top notch and truly deserve recognition it gets, don’t let the review bombers tell you if the game is good or not, you need to decide not them.
I am not going to talk about the difficulty, since this genre is supposed to be very very very difficult... I am going to talk about technical issues, frame drops every where! Weird stuttering! I mean the game looks mediocre! It should work fine even on PS4 slim! But this garbage costs 63$ and you can even glitch through some bosses lol! And the story is just abysmal! I dont understand anything in it... fix your f*** game so it at least work properly on 60fps!!!!!
Universe is inspired and the creative designers did a really good job. Sadly, what made the from software games what they are is lacking. Boss fights are unrewarding and feel like a chore to complete. Having completed all the souls game it is by far the worst entry in terms of boss fight. For about 90% of them Im falling asleep with my controller on my lap mechanically spamming the dodge button waiting for the 700 lbs guy to finish his acrobatic routine so that I can finally get a single hit in and then immediatly back away (rince and repeat about 20 times until he is dead). Gaming journalist need to stop taking from software as the holy grail of gaming, this game is good but giving it a 97% is false advertisement. User’s score is a lot more fair and reflecting of it. Ideas are good but execution is lacking.Overall it feels like everyone that worked on this game loved making it and was passionate about it except for the people in charge of the combat. Those guys where in it for a paycheck.
Combat is fun, stressful, and challenging and the world is huge and beautiful and filled with secret bosses and things to explore. Overall great game.
This game is the best Dark Souls game, nay, the most perfect video game to ever exist. There will only be one Elden Ring and no game will ever take it's title of the Ultimate Game of All Time.
Masterpiece. That is all. Masterpiece. That is all.Masterpiece. That is all.Masterpiece. That is all.Masterpiece. That is all.
Amazing Game, if you are a lover of the Souls series or you are someone who isn't afraid of the challenge you will drown in hours of fun, The music, the scenarios everything is epic. If you are looking for a game that will hold your hand and guide you trough, turn away this Is not your game
If I could give this game an 11/10 I would. This game is a culmination of everything fromsoft has learned over theirs years in making games and it is an absolute landmark achievement. The sheer amount of content in this game is incredible. I have been playing for 25 hours and have only begun to scratch the surface. The artist direction is phenomenal. All of the new mechanics and quality of life improvements that fromsoft has added are welcome additions! Do NOT be fooled by the bad reviews. These are people that are upset that it has yet to be optimized as well for PC. Yes, it does run into problems on PC at times. This does not make it anything less than what it is. The developers are aware of the problem and are working on a patch. Japanese games are often less optimized on PC. This game is definitely more accessible than other souls titles but still expect it to be very challenging at the least, and at most VERY difficult.I still recommend this game to anyone who loves great action or JRPGs, as you would be hard pressed to find a better game in those categories.
It may be slightly early to call being only 10 hours in. But I am committed in saying it’s Hands down my top game of all time. It’s as if someone sat down to design the perfect game for me, 1 - Dark souls 4 2 - Diverse open world 3 - George R R Martin influence Anyone who rates this in the yellow even, never mind the red (those people should be barred from the site doing that whe it’s clearly universally accepted as one of, if not THE best game of all time) I’ll wager that most of those do so because they’re no good at these type of games. Masterpiece
I see on the first few days of launch that the user reviews are pretty low. I know that the game has has a rough launch on PC. But aside from that, i predicted this: There was a huge hype train for this game. A big tornado of hype created by the Souls community, Youtubers looking for views and gaming media talking about this game like it was the 2nd coming of Jesus himself. This Hype tornado **** in a bunch of players who never played a souls game in their lives and because of that, many of these people were expecting a Next Gen experience with Graphics and gameplay akin to what God Of War 2 will look like. That's what happens when the hype train gets carried away. It happened with CyberPunk and it happened with Elden Ring. But the major difference is, Cyberpunk was the developers fault, and Elden Ring was the fault of the people who didnt do more research on what kind of game they were really getting into I have a handful of friends who I've tried convincing to play a Dark Souls game for the last 10 years and they wouldn't. And now all of a sudden they all wanna play Elden Ring. Well, sorry to the folks who were thinking they were about to get a naughty dog mixed with Elder Scrolls by Bethesda experience. You get exactly what we fans over the last 10 years have been asking for. A LARGER more fulfilled vision of the Dark Souls Universe and it is absolutely stunning and beautiful. If you haven't played a FromSoftware Souls-Like game before, ask yourself this: "Am i ready to play a game that doesn't hold my hand, challenges me and will give me no choice but to google stuff a bunch through my playthrough? Am i ready for a type of game I've never played before, one that rewards patience and persistence but always gives me a way to solve problems presented?" This is a nerds game. And if you wanna be a gaming nerd like the rest of us, you're more than welcome to join us. If you're new and dont know where to start, check out VaatiVidya on Youtube. He's everyones go-to for Youtubers who cover FromSoftware content. For the rest of you though, God of War 2 and Starfield come out later this year, just hold on until then. Elden Ring is a perfect accumulation of all of FromSoftwares 6 previous Souls and Souls-Like games. They took the formula and perfected it. I'm 20 hours in and i feel like i just started getting into the thick of it. This is a must play for anyone up to the challenge/know what there getting into. Im playing on PS5, and its been running great
Incredible, keeps on giving, so much content, intriguing world setting and lore
Game is needlessly hard with an expectation that you have played all their other titles. Additionally story is nearly non existent with a path system that means to make little sense. You can make the game playable by hacking around their anticheat software though so it's not entirely terrible.
Everything you want in a game and more my favorite game of all time........
Elden ring is just another example of hidetaka miyazaki amazing talent and dedication in making such a marvellous world, full of surprises.
I honestly can't believe some of these negative reviews. I assume maybe it's people new to Dark Souls games? It's not meant to be a rockstar game. It's a massive JRPG with deep combat, inventory, statistics and upgrades. My dog could beat Red Dead 2. This is not meant to be that. For what it's worth, I have only played 20 hours but I am deeply enchanted by the world they have created. The graphics are improved from DS3, in my opinion they are incredible. The enemies are insanely varied and detailed, and I am amazed at how well they blended the open world with the classic Dark Souls level designs for dungeons and smaller areas. I have loved every moment, and if you get good, you will too.
This has been my favorite game in such a long long time. Honestly the open world + dark souls style is amazing so many things to do. While I have only had the game for a couple days I've already put roughly 40 hours into the game and there still feels like there is a ton left to complete. There has been a ton of QOL changes and new additions which makes the game better and arguably easier than previous titles. HOWEVER, there is still plenty of amazing, challenging, and fun bosses all over. I don't know the exact number but I'm already about 60 bosses in and while some are basic bosses a lot are really cool. I've been playing on a midtier PC that I bought last Black Friday and I haven't had any real issues with the game frame rate or lag. I am only playing on medium settings though because I don't want to nuke my pc since it's really nothing special lol While the majority of the game isn't really too difficult there are some bosses that may take a while to beat. I'm giving this a 10 simply because I cannot remember the last time I played a game anywhere near this good. I can't say it's a perfect game since I haven't 100% it yet but it truly is amazing.
Masterpiece. Hands down. Technically not my first souls game, only had played Demon’s Souls, and I couldn’t enjoy dying al the time on the same spot, so I dropped it very early Demon’s Souls. Elden Ring is different, open world that can have beginners, medium and hard areas, so you can get the hang of it slowly. Excellent game, super fun, freedom to do whatever you want, builds, create your own character and style. Just buy it and have fun with the GOTY.
Such disappointment we we're promised in the 2019 trailer to have arabic langauge in the game even the game was promoted with arabic translations and dub for the trailers and when the game drops pufff there is no arabic langauge i hope you keep your promise and add the arabic langauge later this year to the game
There is no Arabic language .. False promises from the studio regarding the status of the Arabic language
There is no English Version of the game currently available in Hong Kong playstation stores. Both the digital and physical version of Elden Ring doesn’t have any Language options. The screen language is not in English.
AMAZING, SUPERB, Souls game, the best one, it's Dark souls in open world, a must be played, he mastered all previous souls game to offer an unique experience, a MASTERPIECE
Game of the decade? Halfway through the game and honestly it’s flawless and perfect. I’m addicted. The story, the art, the gameplay is so nice!!! Haven’t been this in love with a game since Zelda Wind Waker. I love it. Definitely Game of the DECADE nominee from me!!
Runs like dog crap. Its a 2022 game that looks like a 2013 game. Maybe it runs better on pc or xbox
they didn’t put arabic language why is that we deserve to enjoy the game like the others
My rate would be 10/10 if you didn’t lie about Arabic language! My English is good, but yet it’s hard to understand everything and there are a lot who don’t understand English so we need Arabic language, we deserve Arabic language! I’m not buying any of your next games until you give us the attention we deserve!
If you’re a fan of high fantasy, open world rpgs and the soulsbourne genre, then this is the game of your dreams. The world & character design is amazing. The scale of the world, the density, the verticality are incredible. There’s nothing else like it. Ignore the trolls reviews binging this game, it’s a masterpiece.
The performance on PS5 is really bad. I can't imagine games can't lock on 60FPS on PS5. FPS is dipping to 4x FPS in any given fights. Unplayable! Graphics is bad. A lot of PS4 games beats it on graphics quality. Also, Sony won't let you get a refund even this game has huge FPS issues. Lying about their refund policy on their official website. Steam gave me a refund right away after I tried the game and the game was stuttering every few second. I won't buy any games on playstation any more. DO NOT BUY GAMES ON PLAYSTATION.
Well constructed open world with great lore and great designs. The sound track is one fo the best things I have ever seen and the bosses are on another league.
Best game ever Don't listen to those idiots saying it's bad because it's difficult.
If you're a FromSoft fan this game is perfect. But if you're not familiar with their style maybe skip this. These games are hard, have lore/story that requires lots of paying attention and doing your own investigating. This game took the best things from Sekiro, Bloodborne and Dark Souls and put them all into one open world game. Easily my favorite game by From.
It has the same tight combat and gameplay as the Dark Souls games, but in a much bigger world that is incredibly fun to explore. Takes most of the best bits from previous games and just adds more of everything.
Why it doesnt support Arabic language!! I am really disappointed. I hope you fix your mistake.
All the good things from previous game mashed perfectly in one master piece
Amazing game! Beatifull ! Great ! Very dificult ! Good music ! Recomended!!
I don't get the hype behind this game. The whole self torture thing aside it is boring, meh graphics (PS5 4K TV), and poor controls. A 7 may be a little generous.
It have the best open world game I ever play in my life and have a good gameplay
Perfect souls game. i haved play 20 hours and it's really great. One of my favorite game
Just some constructive criticism: I am really looking forward to the game, but being an Expat in Asia I'm unable to access the English version. All the online and physical copies of the game sent to Asian countries are locked with Chinese. I have never wanted to play a game on launch before, so I am really heartbroken that I and hundreds of other players in Asia can't yet. I'm looking forward to a patch and playing this awesome game!
PS fanboys, if you dislike the game so much or prefer HFW, put your complaint here and not on the series X version, there they rate it with 0 but here I see that the same users give it 10 to make the PS5 version better DON'T BE HYPOCRITES
So this is probably my favorite ps5 game so far, the combat is solid, challenging but fair, the level design is nothing but superb, every inch of this world have dungeons, enemy groups, secret bosses and items that make it a charm to explore. Even if you don't like the souls game this might be worth to check out
A masterpiece. My favorite From Software game. The have really upped the ante with the bosses. And the world design always has something unexpected around the corner.
Everything about this game from the vast open terrain to the combat and weapon arts & lore are outstanding.
greatest game of all time must play everyone who says this game is 0 should really think about what games they think are good
You need to spend time in order to understand and enjoy elden ring. Without any doubt it is the best game I have ever played.
It takes the skill and determination required from previous games however has the flexibility of an open world making it much more accessible to the normal gamer. Looks stunning however very slight framerate drops on occasion on PS5 (but this is being critical). Amazing. I cant put it down.
Amazing game a step up from Dark Souls in every way imagine-able. Combat is as good as it can be. And the new ashes of war add a level of depth to the combat thats unseen before.
The game looks good, is hard like a souls game should be, rewards exploration and if you think a ecounter is difficult you can simply go somewhere else. Truly one of the best games of the year.
It's my second time playing game from From Software (the first one is Bloodborne) but man this game is so beautiful. It's hard but it's calm and the environment is gorgeous.
The game is phenomenal. The people rating this game scores like 0, 1, or anything below an 8 are just Turd **** who will never be pleased in life. You **** at the game does not mean that the game is bad. You are bad, not the game. The game excels at everything FromSoftware has done and everything open world has created. Combat is precise. The world feels ALIVE. Don't let these wimps who can't kill the first boss or complain about "tHe gRaPhIcS" not being to their standards. They are all losers who can't appreciate any game anymore. This game is 10/10 GAME OF THE YEAR!
Never played a soul games before (just a little bit of Bloodborne), but I am really amused by this game, it's awesome
I haven't finished it yet but I played almost 50 hours and the game is absolutely incredible. I love the world and environment. The combat is top notch and the enemies and their animation are just Art. The music is epic too.
I have no idea how they fit all this stuff in one game limgrave isnt even the surface, u go to explore one cave u get lost in a series of secrets and bosses thats not even main story, the main castles are beyond amazing
Stupid game gets highest score ever. I purchase it thinking oh it must be amazing!! NOPE! It's the most obtuse boring ugly piece of garbage I've ever wasted my money on. Bunch of stupid fanboys must have reviewd the game. Trash!
I have been playing most of major adventure/ action / RPG games since 1999 and man, this game makes feel like when I was a kid playing Zelda on gameboy, the exploration, the surprises in every corner and the vast open world, heck I am still in the starting area, but I can't put it off. 31 years old and living the best gameplay experience in decades. Thanks FromSoftware!
Make sure the game can keep up a good framerate and give a difficulty slider next time
This game has problems, I know that. I don't like that when you want to switch weapons you need to wait the animation stops(when your fp is 0). In general this game awesome and huge. I am not sure that I will be able to explore every piece of the game in few months.
The game it’s too hard And I can’t change the boutons how I want it to be.
This game is breathtaking. Never before have I been so enraptured buy a game and amazed by such scale and gameplay. The gameplay is great and the map is insanely dense in all of its enormous glory. This is now my favorite game of all time. I love it.
There is no Arabic language support Arabic is the official language of 26 countries!! theres according to statista theres more than 450 million arabian in the world and its the sixth most spoken language in the world why in the hell you dont support it?
Everything I was hoping for and more. Fromsoft just doesn’t miss, does it. Feels like every part of the world, the many stories of the characters and the combat was so meticulously planned. Beautiful to look at, fun and smooth to play and jaw droppingly filled with content everywhere. One of the greatest games ever made.
Playing it on the ps5 is frustrating the frame rate hasn’t been fixed but I’m sure will be. Apparently it’s worse on the series x. The graphics are what you would expect in a from software game. Which means it’s reusing the same old formula with very little innovation. Though some mechanics like jumping and riding a horse is different, it felt like an expansion to dark souls and not something I wish I would have spent $60 on. The instability is the biggest issue and I can’t get past it. I’ve played all the souls games and normally like them, but feel frustrated at a lack of innovation in graphics, design, and overall gameplay.
Masterpiece! Bosses are great , the map is huge and has a lot of variety. Thats an open World game done right!
Do not listen to what most people have to say about this game. Whether you're a souls fan or not, this could be the greatest game you'll ever play. There is so much to do in this game from dungeons, main quest, side quest, exploration, and everything else. Combat in this game feels like a far improved version of dark souls 3 combat and the exploration in this game is jaw-dropping. If you are an artistic brainiac like me then this game will blow you away in every way. At first, I had low expectations with this game but I am proud to say that this game went far over my expectations and is one of the greatest games I've ever played.
Absolute masterpiece. If you have played and liked any souls game this is the magnum opus. If you have never, then you are in for a treat. Not a game that holds your hand but rewards you deeply.
The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite
A Masterpiece!!! The way that all open world games must be!! Runs almost flawlesly
If you liked Demon Souls then this game is for you, but for me personally its a beautiful game but the combat is clunky with limited attack options, the controls are very tank like and it just makes the game a slog more than anything I could enjoy. Also its a painful experience some of you I know enjoy a game that is difficult but some of us just want to plug in for a couple hours occasionally and enjoy ourselves this game is another one of those were if you want to enjoy the game you better grind things out for a month leveling up your character so that every encounter does not end immediately in your death. I know it sounds like I am bashing the game but I am not I do enjoy it but it just **** because this could have been no very much better with just a few tweaks. I keep hearing comparisons to Breath of the wild but what that game did right this game does wrong. Maybe some day it will happen because if they had breath of the wild controls with this beautiful looking game it sure would be a fun game.
This game is such a masterpiece that even the occasional technical issues didn't prevent me from soaking up every drop of its amazing and majestic world! Magical.
Elden Ring is without a doubt one of the greatest games of all time. Do not listen to the pathetic basement dwellers that have nothing better to do than review bomb a game. The graphics look fantastic and it performs great. I'm 49 hrs in and have only experienced a few very minor stutters. Do yourself a favor and buy this today.Mostly
The official account told us that there is an Arabic language, but after the release we were surprised by the opposite !!!!
Dissapointing game , Graphics = 3 Gameplay = 2 Story = Confusing Filled with technical issues and glitches . Critics praised this game to a hypocrite level , nobody mentioned most of the negative points . No negative review , something was not right from the start .
Best soulsborne game I have played by far in nearly every department. Best combat, best world, best lore and some of the most innovative weapon designs to date in a soulsborne game
As an older player (the big 50) who has put countless hours into Demon Souls, Darks Souls Remastered and Dark Souls 3 and who considers Dark Souls 3 to be my favourite game of all time I have to say after about 20 hours into Elden Ring that this game is highly likely to claim the throne from Dark Souls 3. I appreciate if you are not into the Souls series as much as me you may want to come on here and give it a negative review especially if you are new to having a game not hold your hand and funnel you down a map full of quests in a logical order. This game expects you to be brave, explore, die (many times) and learn. It is not a game for some but, unlike being burnt by professional reviewers in the past for games such as Cyberpunk I can confirm they are spot on with their reviews for Elden Ring. This is a game changer for the Souls series and my definite GOTY unless I get blindsided by something else truly amazing though I highly doubt that is likely to happen. Anyway, a perfect 10 from me and just ignore the haters who probably played for a few hours and dismissed the game because the systems are purposely not as intuitive as mainstream games and they got their asses beaten before rage quitting. The only negatives are perhaps the frame rate issues I experienced on PC but on the console, I'm very happy with it and I'm sure there will still be patches there in time. Certainly no major bugs like other open world games on release.... I think FromSoftware have released an amazing well polished product that I'm sure will only get better with time... other developers should take note!
This isn’t just the best Souls game ever. It’s the best game ever made period! For those that had been scared off by FromSoftwares previous offerings, this game is for you as it’s easily the most approachable Souls game ever as it offers numerous save points and it allows you to play as you wish.
At about 25 hours poured into this game I can honestly say From software has done it again. This game is incredibly breathtaking while still being the most challenging game to date. Understandably some times the loot for doing a stress enduring task feels lack luster, the real reward is the accomplishment of success.
No option for English if bought in Asia. It's year 2022, and we still have this non sense language lock.
A phenomenal game that truly shows how far FromSoftware had come as a developer. However, if you don't love the previous FromSoftware titles, you probably won't enjoy this game, as it handles itself differently then a lot of other games in the mainstream. Although, if you have wanted to try a FromSoftware game, then this is a good place to start!
I think it's the best masterpiece in game history I love this supreme game. A work that will be a turning point in the game industry. Excellent as an RPG.
Best game ever!!! I give it a 10/10 because there's the cap. For sure it's not for everyone, but I'm that kind of player enjoying the hardcore game experience. The combat mech is straightforward but charming. I cannot find this kind of pure battle experience on most 3A games. Just cannot stop playing it! However, please avoid it if you do not enjoy games with hardcore combat and minimal guidance with unclear main quest lines.
I'm a newbie to souls games, and I can already say that this is one of the best games i've ever played. I've played for quite a bit and yet it feels like i've barely scratched the surface. I'm not feeling bored or burned out, but instead I just can't wait to keep exploring more and more. Those worried about the difficulty have to realize that yes this is a hard game, but it is still possible to beat. There is an aura about souls games that tend to stop casual gamers from trying it out, which shouldn't happen, because anyone can beat these games. I am enjoying it, although i have died a lot, but I know that i am learning through those deaths. Overall, 10/10.
Bottom line: the game is overhyped. I have been playing From Soft games since Kings Field 1. Design: This is more of the same, and absolutely just dark souls in an open world. It is refreshing to see a game without a bunch of icon chasing and relies on player exploration. One caveat and problem here is that the payoff when clearing out extremely tough areas is nonexistent, often times rewarding you with mediocre items, this is the same for slightly hidden items, they are just mediocre save for a few instances. The sense of exploration created by their design choices are great, what you get for exploring isn't, but still, it's a fun challenge. It works from a design standpoint, but as a fan I'm tired of being sold the same decade old game engine ALONG with re used enemy animations, assets, and move sets. The armors, weapons, all of it are literal reskins they have already used across 4 games. The least from soft could do is update the archaic UI. Technical: The game runs poorly on PS5, there new patch 1.002.001 actually made the game WORSE. with a shorter draw distance and more pop in, but the framerate is still as bad as before, and now the game looks and runs worse. Bottom Line: this game as is technically, is not what the mainstream outlets are saying. It's a technically flawed dark souls game set in an open world. If the technical issues were actually fixed on this game reusing so much content from old games, I'd say it's a solid 8. Just don't go in buying the nonsense about a masterpiece and accessibility to all. It's a lie.
Elden ring is dark souls 3 open world I tried to like this game because all the media hype , but souls games are boring grind fest games that I can't seem to enjoy.
Bad reviews they are complaining are written by scrubs, we all know it. Go play something simple that holds your hand instead. I’m 47 hours in. Im 43 years old and been playing video games since 1983. My favorite game of all time was original Demon’s Souls. I never liked open works games because they felt empty of good design and memorable moments. To me, this is the best game ever created. Wow! It’s like the best moments of Demon’s Souls over and over and over again. But new?! How do they come up with all this. Seriously, all other open world games - play this and learn from the masters. Answers to some weird bad reviews: No problem with frame drops on my PS5. You can choose between FPS or quality mode! The graphics isn’t all next gen like Demon’s Souls because it’s made for last gen like PS4 and Xbox. That’s also the reason why they haven’t implemented duel sense controller options
Incredible World with a huge diversity and freedom. Art work and boss designs are mind blowing. Hard as any Souls-like game.
Absolutely stunnig, by far the best game I have ever played, highly recommend
All the asinine low reviews are people who can't handle the game. If you can't beat the old Fromsoft games why did you purchase the new one? Yeah its still a From game so it's still difficult but it's extremely fun. Bad graphics? Bad performance? No to both. Just too many babies got their handson something they can't handle. Sorry, still no easy mode so stay away if ya wanna button mash your way through. Just stay away. Easy 10/10.
the best souls game hands down. theres so much to explore and so many things to do, the world has so kuch life and death its so awesome!!!
As someone who's never played a Souls game, I was a little afraid of buying this. Would this be one of those "play for 5 mins and realize it's not my thing and get a refund" I wondered. 5 hours later, I was still grinding away and killed my first boss It does take a good amount of time to get good at the game and understand the combat mechanics. At the start, it's going to feel like you're never going to be able to kill anything other than trash. But if you keep at it and invest your runes and ashes wisely, you'll be rewarded. I've played games that are huge open worlds but the actual playable area is small and you get nothing for exploring except nice views. Elden Ring gives you the nice view and has rewards to go with it. I love that you can always across caves or a bandit camps with plenty of loot. The game is harsh but also rewarding! This is definitely a buy from me! Except if you're someone who prefers games that get to the point from the start and are mission focused. This game can be vague and you need to put in the grind to get ahead. This is the open in open world.
There's nothing really new here. It's the same game in a new game world. There's no advancement in the AI that really matters to the game. It's a lifeless world, where there is only combat. The graphics are not up to scratch. Unless you're someone who plays Soulsborne games, then you probably wont like this one either.
Will go down as one of the greatest games of all time!! it is simply fantastic and epic.
If youre reading through these reviews trust me, play it for yourself. If youre into difficult games but satisfying and rewarding gameplay this is the pinnacle of that.
no arabic language how can I understand the story without Arabic language please add it please
The game looks and plays amazing, bear in mind I'm playing on the ps5. 60 fps with beautiful art directions. All of the reviews saying ps3 graphics are just lost in the sauce, there's so much stuff to do in this game you will never be bored. I've played almost 20 hours of this game and only just beat the second main boss of the game. Definitely a wealth of content and if you like the challenge, all the better.
I have not played the game and yet i rated it a 10. See how **** the rating can be here? We need a better way.
Glitches, poor frame rate and still From software have frame pacing issues in 2022 is unacceptable. Trash open world fundamentals as well. Can't even swim what a joke.
I was very excited to jump in to this game the anticipation was there for many years but after playing the game for many many hours leveling up to level 33 I suffered a glitch where I lost my game save and have to start again from the start this is so annoying that games are released broken on day one and we have to wait for them to get fixed up by patches this is not acceptable by today standards.
The best Fromsoftware game yet. WOW. The last game that got me this hooked was Dragon Age Origins (totally different type of game
People who are giving this game a 0 for the graphics need to understand that FromSoftware is not known to make the best looking games ever, it's their art direction that carries them. This game is kind of niche so I would recommend playing the other Dark Souls games, Bloodborne and Sekiro before you buy this game. Please understand that this game is for people who enjoy souls type games not lazy ubisoft-esque games
Packed open world, good combat, lots of cool weapons, beautiful world design, great bosses, no performance issues on ps5.
People rating this game lower than a 8 wouldn’t know good game design if it but them right in their tarnished. I saw one review saying “the open world lacks any creativity”. Compared to what? I can’t think of a single other piece of any medium, movie, game, music or otherwise, with as much strange, gross and abstract creativity as this game. I’ve seen people down there saying, “the open world is empty, and lacks in quality”, saying that camps are randomly splayed out with enemies. Did you play the game for more than an hour? Judging by the fact that you posted your review an hour after the game came out I’m gunna guess no. I’ve never seen an open world game have so many different types of enemies interesting npcs with mysterious side quests they don’t just waypoint you to, crazy enemy battles, and as hugely diverse set of locations as this game. And camps and castles always have an item in them that will help you, and you’ll need it because this game is still challenging as all hell. Or, the outposts and camps will have a weapon which are so far and few between in this game, every time you find one you get hype. That’s called pacing nerds. Bad graphics, ok who gives a **** Gameplay over graphics any day, and besides that the visuals are absolutely gorgeous because of the beautiful art design. As far as FPS drops go, yes this is a valid criticism. I’ve been around several people that have had bad fps issues and crashes. I would rate the game lower than a 10 if I had experienced any of these personally. As far I’m concerned this is one of the best open world games ever made. But also to be fair, this game hasn’t been out long enough for any of us to properly review it, games are like any art, they take time to sit on, ponder and appreciate
I only know Arabic, why do I pay money for it and I will not understand the story
Elden Ring is great! As a recent fan of FromSoft titles it was really cool to be part of a community that’s so involved with these games. The reason I gave it a 10/10 is because it took all the best parts of all their other games and put it into an open world environment. Having an idea of what you’re supposed to accomplish in any video game is vital to how you enjoy this game. For me I am at the beginning and I can say that I truly feel like player progression is making my player who starts out without many skills to now having the tools I need to win battles. I look forward to where I end up in the lands between but I know that I will find at the end of my journey a desire to come back and do it all over again.
does not respect Arab players, it stated that the game will support Arabic, Now the game does not support the Arabic language
very good play it like botw but actual combat + rpg and also play it oh my god it so good i need to go play more bye
This is the most overhyped game I have ever played. The graphics are bland and uninspired. The combat has ZERO variety. Roll, strike, roll. Rinse and repeat. I have never seen so much hype for a horrible game. I literally can't believe that this is being praised so much. Not to mention, the first 2 enemies you see are meant to end you. And you can easily miss the MANDATORY tutorial. But the world is too big, with reused art assets and I can't believe this is being reviewed positively.
One of the best games I’ve ever played. Last game I enjoyed so much was the Witcher 3 and I say this even tho I died many, many times. You don’t have to be afraid to try it out even if you’ve never played any dark souls games before, it can be easy if you play it the right way. 11/10 would recommend
Amazing game. All hype was true. Has been a lot of time since the last time I was so addicted to a game. Soulslike never was so beautiful, huge and fun to play.
Enjoyable overall experience. Just alittle to copy and paste for my liking. World and lore fresh and unique. Everything else...just more of the same. Sadly doesnt live up to the hype.
Old gen graphic style, inconsistent frame rate, ... 9.7/10???? Impossible!!!
This game is beyond trash. Cognitive dissonance runs high with this one. If it wasn’t hard and grind, it would be getting 3/10
Absolutely love it, 10 hrs in and I'm playing without sleep. GOTY in my opinion.
Weakest Souls game in the series. I'm a huge fan of the prior games with 1000+ hours played and the empty open world, uninteresting boss fights and frame rate drops are unacceptable. The story feels like they replaced the nouns everywhere to re-theme it to 'Grace' and 'Tarnished' instead of 'Bonfire' and 'Ashen One/Chosen Undead' but forgot to make it feel meaningful. I was hoping for what Fromsoft had promised, a departure from the Souls series but this is Dark Souls 3 with a thin coat of paint covering an empty open world. Games like these are hard to develop and are huge financial risks to create, so I respect the work the team did to make this game as good as they could however they have ignored a lot of game design advancements in the industry that would have made a huge difference in making this feel worth my time. I really wanted to love this game and embrace whatever new things they wanted to do, shame what resulted.
this is one of the greatest games of all time, and one of the best open worlds to explore, Fromsoftware is just proving again that they are the best in the industry
Most polished and well put together AAA title in years. Fromsoft always hits the mark and this is no exception.
Literally the culmination of all of Miyazaki's work. The game masters souls gameplay and also inmerses you in the wordl like BOTW. Thanks From for delivering another incredible game.
Best game I've played in a few years. Been playing for 8h straight this game is just so fun i could play it all day. The Open-world feels alive and the combat system is awesome.
Great game, there is a learning curve. Get stronger or die fast. I chose to play and archer which mean half my runes go to arrows. Learn the game and the strats either by trial and error or looking it up online.
This is the best Game ever made! FromSoftware improved on every aspect of their beloved Souls formula and put it in a breathtaking and haunting Open World, that is so much much to explore. to be said, this is not for the casual Ubisoft game lover, but a true Masterpiece
The game is great and the performance issues haven't made any difference for me at all cuz I'm not a crying beta baby and I haven't enjoy a game like this before for a long time
As someone who has played all previous Souls games, Elden Ring tops them all. Although made noticeably easier than previous games to appeal to a newer audience, the open world experience is a delight and I really hope every game they make going forward is open world too.
Dark Souls was just the beginning. Mind blowing world building and exploration. Negative: It happens that I were overpowered or underpowered. The game process route is very unclear (could be also a positive point).
The game is amazing. I spent 30 hours into the game and I haven’t even seen the second main boss yet. It’s just so addictive. You literally can go anywhere for hours without getting bored at all. No long cinematic. Just grab your sword cast your spell and be ready to die over and over. This is the best game of the year. This is a must play.
Amazing game, haven't been this enthralled by a piece of media in forever. It's quite hard to describe why the open world works so well, but I just feel I want to keep playing until I'm finished
I really Like it, its for souls fans only, not for new players, a lot of player are mad because the bosses are hard but that’s how the game work and we liked for so yes its 10
The game is amazing. I'm loving every moment. The exploration, the possible builds, all the surprises. If you ever get stuck you can explore somewhere else get better gear and increase levels, summon other players or use spirits. I played Sekiro previously and to me this is so much better. The story and the characters are amazing and the world. I am really loving the game so far
Most of the bad reviews seem related to the PC version ... I've had no issues at all on PS5. I've had a great time so far without any previous DS experience. The world, lore, design, and game mechanics will really pull you in if you give it a try!
I'm in love with EVERY single aspect of this game. The environment, the dungeons, the enemies, the Bosses (which the main ones are some of the hardest ever imo)... it's just breathtakingly beautiful. I've spent SO SO many hours just in the first area alone, just exploring, trying to solve little riddles and sometimes just standing there and appreciating the view. This game has SO MANY cool fight mechanics, SO MANY cool weapons - I think there's something for EVERYONE. I love that the magic system got an upgrade this time around. I think this could easily become my absolute favourite game of all time. It just doesn't get boring even one minute. I've played it on PS5 (BEAUTIFUL) and Pc (I'm on the lower specs side there with only a 1060) and after the update it runs perfectly fine even on my old boy. Another note: all this hurt little review bombing babys crying and rating a game like this with 0(!!) points.. you don't even deserve to play a game like this.
Great gameplay and world with so many things to do. People that are review bombing It have not given it a fair shot or a pre rating it low for no reason. This game is great!
Best game of all time, the least interesting parts are the main dungeons, and they aren't bad at all. It's just that the open world aspect is that perfect. I won't be able to ever go back and play another souls game after this.
Best open world i have ever attended to, It is the only game that i have spent more than 40 hours and didnt feel bored for a minute, still playing and praying that this experience will last for longer, much longer This game is for everyone that would like to step in to souls-like genre, and it is really open minded on how you can explore, fight, search, level etc. 10/10
Game stutters on PS5 which is extremely unfortunate. Doesn't hold a solid 60 fps. If on ps5 get the ps4 version (less resolution but stable framerate). Going to wait for a patch, can't play this.
Best souls-like ever would **** FromSoftwares's **** no cap Remember try finger but whole
I don’t know what to say except I love this game. It’s the perfect culmination of everything we love from Dark Souls and Bloodborne. 10/10
Best game I have ever played. I am a go gamer 52 yrs old and have played almost every type of game i never thought bloodbourne would ever get beat on my top games of all time. So happy right now. This game will keep me happy for thousands of hours. Just love it.
Amazing environments, densely packed world and very fleshed out combat. Favourite game of all time.
Imagine Dark Souls with a horse and meaningless big map. Now dip it in a pile of ****. Never trusting reviews again. How do you manage to downgrade from Sekiro to this?? The graphics feel like PS3, combat is straight-up the same as Dark Souls 1, the world is empty same mobs everywhere. Don't waste your money until they balance everything in the game. Instead, go play Sekiro if you haven't.
This game is amazing, far surpassed all expectations. The world is about three times the size of what i thought it would be, there's something in every nook and cranny of the map to do/fight/find.
It’s a 10 and straight up at a minimum an 8. This game is colossal. Fantastic combat options and rewarding exploration. It can be tough and your heart will pound during encounters. Yet overcoming these obstacles surges the body with gratification. I’m playing on PC and I haven’t encountered any bugs. Graphics are great. Not outstanding but is that really negative? Everything seems polished and stylized it’s fantastic to gander at. There ARE slightly common frame drops in the open world though. Does that actually mean it deserves a 9? Or an 8? Does a couple frame drops really give a game a review bomb of zero? Seems a little steep for such a minor inconvenience. I have fun playing the game! I enjoy it. I love it. And I hope you do too. Thank you FromSoft!
I don't understand the hype about this game. the gameplay is not fun at all. I don't understand how the game should be a 10, the pc version is just rubbish. controller does not work typical of from software. only 16.:9 is supported no unltrawide.
Giving this a 10 even though I think it’s a 9 to balance out the **** review bombing coming from people that have never touched the game. In the current state of the game due to stuttering and fps drops and save issues it is a 7/10. I have high hope and I am positive they will fix it. I am on ps5 so I am enjoying the game with very little issues. My problems with the actual game: -Can’t swim(don’t matter that much) -slight smudgy looking objects when too far away What’s good with the game: -Stunning art style and environment -Amazing as usual bosses and characters -improved and adaptive bosses to change according to how you play -Cool gear -Interesting lore and story -great music and sound -Random encounters and being teleported and feeling overwhelmed with greatness when u get thrown in random locations The people complaining about graphics or the way combat is have never touched a from software game in their life. This is how they are. The combat changes on what weapons or magic u have. The combat is good in this game for a from software. Also these games graphics are known to be unique. The art style and environment is what makes them beautiful and they didn’t disappoint here. You can have your complaints but giving it a 0 not even due to the technical issues is just the dumbest **** ever. This game is phenomenal and I recommend everyone who is a souls fan gets this and enjoys every second of it.
A perfect masterpiece one of the best game I've ever played without review bomberd this game would get score higher than at least 9.5.
One of the best games I have ever played the game looks great and it can get you playing for hours definately worth buying
This game has serious balance problem. If you choose astrologer to play game, it will be much much much easier than any other job which make other job like a joke.
Man this game is just Brimming with tons of content more so then any other game maybe skyrim comes close, tons of Bosses that are fantastic, very polished experience and BY FAR the Best Combat system and most customization in a Souls game. Not only that but this is easily the best Open world game ive ever played, it doesnt follow any of the Open world Tropes that tire me of this genre it is just packed with Discovery and the true feeling of adventure!. This is by far Fromsoftwares magnum Opus and is a True testament in RPG gaming. Absolute masterpiece!
Spoiler free Ps5 Performance mode Digital, 73 euro PSN store Prior experience: Completed DS 1, 3, platinumed Bloodborne Abandoned DS2 Elden ring is the latest title from software, known for a series called “Dark souls”. Dark souls is an RPG with super tight level design built to test the player’s skill while providing a fantastic atmosphere and a unique way to tell a story through item descriptions and vague NPC interactions. So successful that it has spawned its own genre named “souls-like”.Elden ring, is an open world spiritual successor, taking place in an open world made by none other than G.R.R Martin, the author of game of thrones. The idea of combining an open world with the unique souls-like genre by the legends themselves sounds too good to be true. The hype leading up to this game has been beyond comprehensible with the metacritic’s critic score currently being a 97 - among the highest scores ever. The world of “the in between” is beautiful. It uses elevated and vertical space to truly capture stunning visuals. The graphics themselves is varying on a scale of “Okay” to “Good”, it lacks small things like plant physics and great looking textures, but it manages to for the most part run at a solid 60 fps, with a few exceptions dropping below but never below 40-50 and never so bad it stutters. Sadly, the world itself isn’t very fun to explore due to feeling “copy pasted”. The ruins all look the same, a handful of ruined buildings, a handful of enemies, and sometimes a tomb leading down to a tomb with a chest or a boss. The chapel often contains a key item, and a checkpoint that doubles as a fast travel point. The enemy camps vary in size and contain a few chests and a few enemies. Castles, caves, and mines are often the more exciting ones, often ending with a boss and some sweet loot to enhance your weapons. They often reward an item called Gold runes, which when used gives you a currency that The game, which heavily focuses on exploration, does not automatically track what you’ve explored and if you’ve missed something, making it extremely confusing if you miss or don't remember where you found something. The open world also comes with a few drawbacks. Mainly, in terms of difficulty. The souls games are known for their difficulty, often being fair and equipping the player by slowly ramping up the already hard difficulty. Elden ring, however, is a lot more open, which can lead players being lost and easily getting too much water over their head, leading to frustration as the game’s only vague hint is to “find the castle” , and your only means of doing so is to follow the vague direction you get when you visit a check point. The “Legacy dungeons” are the only parts of the game that truly has the old fantastic level design of the other games, making them a treat and the overworld feel rather boring to traverse. You always have fun in the dungeons, but you only have fun less than half the time you’re in the overworld, which is most of the game, which makes me miss the old formula. To make traveling less of a hassle, they add a jump button, a mount, fast travel, and a much welcome “checkpoint” before most bosses. The controls are a bit clumsy and takes a while to get the hang of, and sometimes requires you to think twice which can be frustrating when you’re always in danger of dying. The buffer system seems milder than previous entries, but can still occasionally get you killed if you press too many buttons too fast causing you to lose control of your character. The music in souls-like games are often just white noise such as birds, wind, and movement, which fits the atmosphere they’re trying to create. But once a boss appears, the music does a 180 and pumps out some great boss music making bosses truly feel special and magnificent. Combat varies from great to not very enjoyable. You can customise your character just the way you like to play, with a huge arsenal of weapons, magic spells, and new to the series - special weapon abilities, which can be customised with your favourite weapon, creating quite a large number of styles. The game also speeds up the game with faster stamina regeneration (although making stamina less important), and a fast way to counter attack with your shield, making defensive play a lot faster. It introduces Mounted combat, which ends up being jousting, or a game of cat and mouse, which changes and removes the deep satisfying combat into a…”run around the boss and swing until they do a big stomp and repeat”, which feels very underwhelming for a series with such a history with deep and satisfying combat. Overall, I think the game takes 4 steps to the side, but also two steps back. It experiments with the open world, but it feels like it’s missing the “from software polish” because it’s so big and vast instead of small, focused and concise. 6.5/10
This game is simply awful and anyone who enjoys it must overlook (or ignore) serious flaws. The game is built on the same Souls game engine since 2008. playing on PS5, or any console or PC, It runs terrible, looks like garbage, has constant pop-in, glitches, and worst of all cannot keep a consistent framerate, let alone being able to hold 60fps. You will experience on average 20 frame drops just by simply moving around, let alone when in combat. As far as “Souls” games go, what makes them difficult isn’t their enemies, it’s the clunky and jank movement of the character, its painfully slow animations and movements, and the fact that it fails to register button controls correctly or precisely. Trying to play this game after playing Horizon Forbidden West, I simply cannot believe anyone would prefer this game in any way, shape or form. Horizon is a modern game with modern graphics, physics, character models, movement, UI, and fluidity. Elden Ring is just another Souls game, released in 2022 and feels like it’s from 2008. Another souls game reskinned, that is uninteresting and built solely on the cliché of “it’s hard bro and you’ll learn to love it” fan base that doesn’t play any modern games or have seen the outside of their mother's basement since the mid-2000’s.
This is a masterpiece that redifines the open world genre. The evolution of everything fromsoft has laerned throughout their carreer. 10/10
its improved ds series love it. worst thing is that i didnt know how to pass locations in order but its not bad its just not for me
This is by far the best game I have ever played in my life. From Software has put all other developers to shame.
Just an unbelievable experience. The game is is far bigger than it seems, and it already seemed enormous. Bosses and set pieces are incredible and the combat is a great evolution on Dark Souls titles.
Highly overrated. Good game but no where near a 10 like true genre defining games like Zelda BOTW. Its too one dimensional. The only thing to do is fight enemies and level up, move to new areas of the map with stronger enemies, rinse and repeat. THATS IT. Its just one big dungeon crawler with nothing else to do.
Jesus. They went and did it again. They improved upon virtually every aspect of their previous titles. The world is gorgeous to traverse and explore. All the spells are useful and impactful if you’re planning on doing a Mage-style build. There’s so much to enjoy here!
Very very good game, a lot of the negative reviews are very silly I'd give it a 9.5 there are small issues here and there but the game is so big and full unique creative things, bosses, landscapes. The sheer amount of actually really well done content in this game puts it well above most other games out there, a true near perfect game.
This game is amazing. For all the people claiming it's to hard, Grow up lol!!!! It is difficult but fairly easy to farm the xp you need to get through and level up.
Just for all the shills putting 0/10 reviews because “it feels like a dark souls game” lmao. This is more like a high 8 or 9 out of 10 everything about the game is amazing awesome loot, countless enemy types, countless bosses with all unique move sets. Rewarding loot, excellent lore. Only thing I wish it had was like a more of a main story quest which is missing here. I played this on ps5 performs great, loading times unmatched on any other console, important to note since you’ll be dying a lot.
The best From game yet, i think its the best game i ever played. Def the best open world game by miles, actually feels like a world youre exploring instead of just markers on a map u need to visit. Easy goty status.
Not usually a Souls fan, but this game man… it’s so good! Its way more accessible and isn’t over the top hard right out the gate. It’s still hard from the get go don’t get me wrong but it feels a little gentler at the beginning than other FromSoftware games. The open world aspects also helps mitigate that classic frustrating loop of dying over and over again to the same thing. If something’s too hard you can go explore and do other things, then come back later once you’re stronger. Only complaint is the performance sometimes. Lots of stuttering. Other than that it’s amazing
Overrated game has nothing new just the free world the rest of DKS3 xerox there is an impressive collective madness about this game
Amazing experience. If you like vidéo games and want to discover one the best video games ever made. Play elden ring and finish it that's it. You Never will be the same. Enjoy
I can't for the life of me understand the bad reviews. Maybe people are frustrated, but if you get the hang of it, this game is truly magical. You discover amazing things when you least expected them. The only downside is, that this game is almost too addictive.
Don't usually leave game reviews, but doing my part to combat the 0 scores that are being put up here constantly. First of all this game isn't for everyone - much like most FromSoftware games aren't for everyone. I think all of us nerds alike always are intrigued by these games because of how amazing the worlds they are set are in. Dark High Fantasy and George RR Martin, how could people not want to jump in. Well, unfortunately for most getting a chance to run through these world, explore their secrets and dive into their lore is a dream they'll never fulfill because the right to do that isn't just handed to you - you have to earn it. I think this rings the most true for Elden Ring and is why for the first 4-6 hours I wasn't having a good time with this game. For reference, I have beaten DS3, Bloodborne, and Sekiro prior to this but the start of this game felt wayyyyy harder than any of those. But then after getting my ass handed to me by Margit for the 7th time I decided to go exploring and stumbled upon Weeping Peninsula. After that - it's all she wrote I haven't been able to stop playing this game. The open world aspect of Elden Ring is interesting to say the least - the way it is implemented reminds me a lot of Zelda: Twilight Princess from back in the day. Nothing really is guiding you outside of visual queues and some statues that will point you in the direction of caves and dungeons. This was very frustrating at first because I felt like I was running through a world with nothing to do on the surface level, but once you start to learn what to look for and how the game shows you where to go it really opens up. The combat is really great - sure there are some broken hitboxes here and there and gank bosses still drive me to my greatest rage but man it's so satisfying to try different Ashes of War and break enemy's poise. The sheer variety of locations, secrets, weapons, quests, and replayability of this title will keep me playing for months on end. It really is a nice change of pace compared to modern open world games. If you're struggling don't be afraid to find some guidance online even if it is "spoiling" your experience. If you quit at Margit and don't pick it up again there is no experience to spoil. Do what you gotta do. Real rating is 8.5/10 for frame rate issues, massive pop in, and I think a lack of open world mechanic explanation in the beginning. Even though it's a FromSoft game a little more direction to like a trial dungeon or something of that nature would have been helpful for a lot of players. If you can't stand this game then go play Ghost of Tsushima - it's a nice blend between Elden Ring's exploration style, traditional Open World exploration style, and a middle ground of difficulty and combat variety. But seriously, embrace being a Tarnished and struggle and claw to becoming an Elden Lord. It's always worth it.
The game is incredible, the vast world, variety of items and bosses, the history, and ambiantations through the game has no comparisson, I say this is the strongest candidate to goty.
Absolutely love the game! The graphics are amazing, story is great. Combat is improved even further. Miyazaki san did it again! BRAVO
TLDR: Elden ring is FromSoft’s best game this **** is **** Incredible. 10/10 I explain why below. The world of Elden ring is really **** huge with tons to do man, i ain’t even kidding or lying to you the world feels so natural and doesn’t even got that feeling of “oh a game dev put this **** here whatever” and it’s got so many hidden locations in this **** man it’s really a marvel fr. the graphics are really great too overlooking the second region of the game after clearing your first legacy dungeon is staggering, now it ain’t gonna be for everyone, a lot of people like colourful **** and all that, but this game isn’t that, and it’s not suppose to be. like you’re in a DYING and ROTTING world and people are comparing this **** to like horizon and other open world games when this just different this world is suppose to be dull and dying and it does this setting really well. The story is good too, being a From Soft game most of the lore is pretty hidden and not gonna be fed to you through massive amounts of cutscenes, but instead it’s gonna be given through item descriptions and small dialogue with side characters, personally this don’t bother me, it makes getting invested into the world and plot more immersive, i personally don’t like being lore dumped with 5 minutes worth of cutscenes at a time but this is preference i guess, the only lore you get when you start is “yo listen you need to go out and become the Elden lord cuz the world is dying cuz the elden ring broke. ain’t no one out here able to fix it so you do it” it’s simple enough to start but as you go through the game you learn the about the different factions and groups and **** and how the world came to be and how they connected to the bigger world and what happened to certain characters, it all goes so much deeper than led onto be in the beginning it’s some crazy ****. The combat in this game is so refined its the greatest the souls series has seen yet i’m not cappin, this **** is incredible every weapon has unique animations and combos it did away with r1 spam from previous games and really made you think about what moves to do at what time, you have 2 different jumping attacks on every weapon, heavy attacks that have 2-3 hit combos, all weapons have light attack combos with faster weapons having 4-8 hit combos and slower weapons having 3-5. you have weapons arts that can be switch out with ashes of war that can be found in the world there’s so many unique builds you can do with this system man, you can take any weapon “with the exception of legendary weapons” and turn it to scale with different types of damage, there’s so many different options with this systems is actually insane i’m telling you man. The games difficultly has been made in a way that i’m pretty sure anyone can beat it that ain’t to say it’s not hard for veteran souls fans cuz it is, the bosses here will make you their **** man i’m not joking. But nah, i’m talking about using the spirit summoning system. it’s use to take boss aggro is extremely useful to a lot of newer players and the best part is, you don’t even have to use it if you don’t want to, it’s completely optional. during my playthough, i found that the summon is too strong so i straight up ignore it for boss encounters it’s made the game really accessible i think that more people than ever are gonna actually be able to beat this game. Technical wise i have heard somethings that aren’t very good about the game, being perfectly honestly the game doesn’t run that well, especially with what i got setup “i7 9700k, 16 GBs of ram and a asus Strix gtx 970” with this set up i can run the game at 60fps on all low graphic settings, most of the time, i’ve had many frame dips in certain locations and i’ve had the game crash twice over my 30 hours of playing when i Alt Tab on pc so far. FromSoft has addressed these issues and promised an update “in the near future” so hopefully these problems fix soon. as for bugs, i haven’t experienced any in 30 hours, non at all maybe i’m just lucky ion know. no glitches either but i have heard of some torrent glitches like bugging out getting onto him and stuff, but i personally have not had any of those issues. i think i talked bout everything, ion wanna spoil anything cuz this game is honestly at its best going in blind and just discovering **** i’m tellin you guys this **** is gonna be remembered its really one of a kind, it’s does so many different things and it prefects all the things it does. Personally this game is a 10/10, i’m going to assume that within a week or so the performance issues will be fixed so i have no real complains other than that.
This game has so many shills that are so quick to dismiss any legitimate concerns or problems, it's hilarious. The game looks like dark souls 3, runs like turd. 3090 at 2k resolution drops frames left and right. No DLSS. It's probably not a zero but to offset those shills I'm giving this title a zero.
All this is is a generic demon souls game grapghics are bad games glitchy and ugly
Simply the best game fromsoftware have ever created, one of the best games in history.
I feel the game tried something new and failed, and wasnt helped by the marketing that said, this is the souls game for new players, then has bosses way faster and tougher than any other souls game and even faster than Bloodborne. This game is not for new players, and not for players who do not already like souls games.
Great Open World with a lot of secrets and surprises. I don't know what people nowadays want, do they like open worlds with boring fetch quests and quest markers all over the place? Elden Ring doesn't have fetch Quests it has many dungeons interesting side Quests where you have to find the next steps all by yourself and lots of secret on every corner. To this date Fromsoftwares best game.
The best title Fromsoft has made. Bloodborne and Dark Souls were my favorites before, Sekiro a bit behind due to no replay value after a complete run. A bit of stutter, but not enough to drop my rating. Playing on PS5. About 20 hours in. Only played 5 hours on pc, but stopped as my kid uses the pc all the time.
My favourite game of all time gameplay music story 10/10
after 30h of playing I can say that... this is a master piece in the souls games franchise
The next level adventure that all soulslike players need. New horizons to make every gameplay fresh, but old roots that will take all old fans antention in the firs hour of gameplay
Another dark souls game. Nothing new graphically. A few changes to combat make it interesting. It's the same old combat. I don't know what's so intriguing about this game. Nothing innovative.
Great game I loved it Thanks from software Good gameplay Good story........
Unfortunately Elden Ring is poorly optimized, in 2022 they still release games with this problem?! PS3/XB360 graphics, absurd, I don't know how he received 97 from the "experts", shame!!!
Awesome game! Love how difficult it is, no easy mode, like the good old days (games)
There are a lot of performance issues. Its graphics are not compatible with the next generation of consoles. The plants load later. From Software games are experiencing performance issues in general. He needs to make the necessary recruitment.
Excelent a very good souls experience thats put me in a dark world of challenges and mistery
The game is unnecessarily complicated. Not impossible to learn all the mechanics in less than an hour, just why. This is a one player game. Do not think it is multi-player. You can summon a few people for a dungeon or boss fight but that is it. No exploring with friends. The targeting system is sloppy and out of date. While bosses swing their weapons and damage is done to you in any part of their swing while you have to be super accurate with your attack. Not impossible to overcome, but if I just wanted to constantly run in circles with getting a hit in here and there I would play one of the games I already own. I gave a 1 instead of a zero because the gameplay is smooth and the world is gorgeous.
I love this game like love blood and dark and sekiro.. But we want language Arabic so i don't buy the game when come my language
The game was massively overhyped don't buy into it wait for a sale if you want this game open world is boring feels like im playing a ps2 game. Sometimes like the only way you can win some of these boss battles is to glitch through the enemy. Npc are lifeless same animations from dark souls 3
Absolutely brilliant game. Beautiful world and highly addictive. I don't understand why people are sharing on issues that will be fixed.
As a massive souls fan, i can say that From Software and Miyazaki keeps pushing the boundaries and delivering masterpiece after masterpiece, this might be the best one of them, and even the best game i've ever played in my entire life.
I don't really know why the named this elden ring when it's obviously dark souls 4. Statistics, graphics, mood, menus, gameplay, many enemies, even the name of the weapons are from ds. The open world does not bring anything new, yes they remove the "?" from other games, but thats all. After reading the reviews I was specting a new paradigm in open worlds and videogames but iit's not the case.
Elden ring is absolutely amazing! So much detail and thought went into this game. It’s truly remarkable!!
In this day and age, games that have massive amounts of hype often don't deliver (I am looking at you Cyberpunk 2077 and Anthem) However, Elden Ring is thankfully not one of them and has not only delivered but surpassed my expectations. It takes everything that made each Soulbourne games good and combines into one package with a beautiful open well to explore. However, there's just one issue and that's performance which isn't ideal but, does it deserve being review bombed? absolutely not as it will more than likely be ironed out with a few patches. I don't understand why gamers can't accept that some games will have slight issues and isn't going to be perfect at launch and it's not like it's completely broken either.
It's like I am 8 years old again and playing Ocarina Of Time, the sense of mystery, wonder and adventure is overwhelming. After 30 hours, I can already assuredly say this is not only the best FromSoft game, or the best open world game, but one of the greatest video games of all time.
A game should not be considered good simply because it's challenging. A game is still supposed to be a game and this is barely that. It gives u the most barebones pieces of information on what to do or where to go and tries very little to get u invested in the story or characters at all. It doesn't make u feel connected to your character or the world that you're in as it just throws you into a random location for you to run around and figure it out (which I've come to learn is the usual for souls games). And that's where another prblm comes for me and confuses me about all of these 10/10s. This is pretty much the same as all souls games just a way bigger open world to **** every game has a big open world nowadays so I don't get why this is such a selling point to have different places that u can explore. I can understand getting tired of following a bunch of markers with a crowded HUD and map of icons but most games allow the option to turn this down. It seems like this game is being rewarded for a tremendous lack of effort and its being disguised as groundbreaking. Which brings me to my next point. The lack of options in 2022 is unforgivable. This game assumes that you've played souls games before and judging by the reviews im guessing most reviewers have which I suppose explains the high rating a bit more. If you're a new player like me and countless other normal people it is nearly impossible to go into this game as is without a friend or some sort of guide to help you figure out the most basics of things like where youre even supposed to go. Playing with friends is also a chore as the system that's implemented is a hassle making it almost not even worth it when everytime you or the host dies you immediately return to your world. There's no option to spectate even for a few moments while returning you just immediately go back. Along with having to find/ buy materials to use everytime you want to play with a friend makes it almost not worth using. Why not have a system where you can at least craft a permanent tool to use to transport you to and from a friends world? Along with having stronger ones that allow you to be revived or die more than once or at least be able to spectate your friend after you die? Again seems like they were cutting corners and are being rewarded for it. All in all it kinda **** at this games lack of effort in being an actual game because it does seem to have a great world to explore and be in with cool enemies to fight. However my personal preference for games is to be entertained and have fun not be constantly frustrated for hours for a few moments of joy. I would give it a higher score but the absolute horrendous overhype of this game and the fact that all reviewers are ignoring the glaring problems and turning them into benefits causes me to have give this a zero. I pray this doesn't beat out genuinely good games with compelling stories and characters at the any awards but sadly I know it will and it's honestly a shame. A shame they will be rewarded for a lack of effort. Giving more options to newer players wouldn't hurt core souls fans but would require work on the developer...they obviously didn't want tht.
The open world is amazing combat amazing story like all Miyazaki games complicated
I am new to the franchise and let me tell you: I am in love! You should not expect an easy game but one that is a lot of fun and with amazing moments along the journey.
**** crazy noobs users protagonist review above 9. You buy garbage games and reading your reviews is the shame of human being.This is at least a really very good game, and **** protagonist, useless critics reviews that give more than 9,3, you are the shame of the meaning and the value of critic and knowledge, capitalismo trasforma art and culture, and the part of art and culture in a videogame in pure market
as an xbox player i have to say that this game runs extremely well on the playstation and i had no errors. simply a masterpiece
It’s amazing, think of it like if you mixed Dark Souls with an open world game like Witcher 3. There’s crafting, lots of exploring and since it’s open world getting stuck in an area isn’t such a pain since you can go to other places and get some runes to better upgrade your character. Summoning spirits is fun and it helps newer players. Also, the bosses are still “hard” but fair and enjoyable, horseback fighting is amazing too! To top it all of every build has a use for FP, magicians use spells and swordsmen use ashes of war. Overall 10/10 imo
No graphics issue on ps5. Stop review bombing this game based on pc performance! Throughly enjoyed my 10+ hours PER DAY in the last three days. Honestly think this is game of the decade. Open world is full of interesting stuff. You JUST NEED TO LOOK FOR THEM!
Very slow and filled with mechanics/lore that REQUIRES research. I don't need another project to take up all my time. It feels like you're tricking the game's mechanics to defeat enemies instead of using the mechanics to your benefit.
This game is a true masterpiece! Built and vastly expanded on a combination of awesome dark souls gameplay, and attention to details of rdr2 and witcher 3. You just cant put the controller down!
This game epitomizes everything From has been working towards. Think Zelda Breath of the Wild with proper encounters in enemies and their camps and littered with serious bosses. The sense of discovery is amazing. And then there is the excellent combat. I am 17 hours in but so mucn in love and this is my game of the year.
Pinnacle of the franchise hands down. I expected a game half that size. World and story are amazing, combat even better than DS3 and Difficulty spicy as always. The PC port is a **** but even then the game is incredibly enjoyable.
Sadly, the game is being review bombed by smoothbrains who’ve been coddled too much by Ubisoft titles. They complain of empty worlds when my map is filled with POIs and dungeons, with valuable weapons and armour scattered in nooks rewarding exploration. They complain about performance whilst playing on 7 year old hardware. They complain about no unique ways to travel whilst I find portals connection opposite ends of the map and an elk that can double jump. They complain about copy and pasted environments and enemies yet every major area/biome are extremely diverse and exciting. I’ve around 30 hours played and it’s painfully obvious who’ve played >2 hours, got stuck on a miniboss, didn’t explore anything, and left an emotional 0 before they went to go grab a glass of soy milk. I found an abandoned ruin inside of a mist laden forest. I entered an elevator inside of it. Next thing I know I’m in a massive underground city with immeasurable scale, with geodes on the far ceiling acting as ambient light, reminiscent of the night sky with no light pollution. The sense of wonder and scale in this game is grand, with no areas being similar to the previous in any way. It’s a marvel of gaming as a whole. It’s the magnum opus of a developer who’s given us GOTY after GOTY. If you’re a game enthusiast with half a brain, this may top your list. If your someone who needs to be coddled like a baby to get through the most trivial matters, don’t bother.
Absolutely stunning, the game is perfect! I play it for hours and it feels like I'll never get tired of playing it!
the game is so good, not missunderstand, but i dont see difference from the others. it's another souls. with huge recycled movements and content. the reason for my 5 is for the disgusting performance for the ps3 graphics they gave us. i don't recommend to get the game at least for now.
Apotheosic, Gargantuan, Fantastic, Epic, these words are short to describe such an amazing game, like Dark Souls Ultimate, with a gigantic but full of mystery world. Great difficulty, amazing graphics and an artistic work to behold. Go play it!
Elden Ring is an amazing next step in the Souls formula. It feels familiar to Souls veterans, but also has a ton of new features that give us that new experience we wanted.
This game is ok, but endlessly frustrating. You die 8-10 times each encounter. There is no quest log or real explanation as to whats going **** every time you die you lose all your xp (runes) progress and the enemies respawn every time you save or die. If you dont enjoy level grinding and locked boss fights you probably wont enjoy this one. But here is the biggest issue- the co-op is hard baked into this game, especially the boss fights. Once the servers for this game are shut off it will be unplayable.
Best game ever, i cant believe the upped all their previous titles. Michel zaki is the goat
The best open world game since breath of the wild, well done fromsoftware you made history
Really fun game, sense of exploration is great but overall it just feels like Dark Souls 3 adapted for an openworld. I fell it doesn’t move gaming forward in any significant way, technically is very unimpressive (lips are not even synced to dialogue), still, it’s fun and combat is great. Have to say I like Sekiro much better.
Absolute 10/10 game for me. This game is massive in size, and still feels really rewarding to explore everything. Combat is as satisfying as ever, and there are creative new weapons and items. If you like the souls series, this is game is everything that series is, but now even better.
I struggle to see why this game is considered to be better than GOW for example (everything is better in GOW including combat system). It definitely doesn't deserve such high scores.
Don't listen to these frustrated bombers. If this game isn't worth at least an 8, in all honesty, just stop playing video games and get a new hobby. You whiny, pasty idiots obviously have expectations that will never be fulfilled. Wanted to give a well-earned nine, but I'm bent on countering these **** 0 ratings. Great game!
Help i can't stop playing it, it's masterpiece, I love the open world and exploring, also the multiplayers system became easy to play with people and friends, I'm loving it.
FromSoft has really taken it to the next level. The world is big and has ALOT in it to do! Bosses are really fun and challenging, NPC are interesting. And the story is FIRE! If you like any of the earlier From Soft games, this is a must have. Even if you never have heard of dark souls or fromsoft, this will be a perfect introduction. 10/10. The framedrops are not in the way of gameplay. People claiming fromsoft have bought reviewers off are wrong. The game is absolute worth it
perfect in every way ! ( Greatest game of all time, Play it and make your own mind up about it and The definitive From Software experience).
Best game ever mad the gameplay is very good the word is so gorgeous and the artist direction is one of the best
Honestly I have played every fromsoft game and they all fall between a 7 to 9 out of 10 always missing certain aspects to get that 10/10 from myself (not that I mean much) However, this game did it, in my opinion this game is fromsoft’s goat game and maybe as of writing this the goat of all games. Perfect for souls vers and new comers.
Amazing and enjoyable open World a Gameplay that culminates all these years of refining a formula, definitely one of the best games of the last 10 years.
Few hours into the game and I really like it, I love how it looks and feels like a Dark Souls 3 successor, however, the game has technical issues that should have been addressed before lunch, that's why I'm giving it a 7 instead of 8.
Don't trust the user score, some no lifes review bombed this game. it's a masterpiece, one of the greatest games ever made. Absolutely worth a playthrough, on any platform you choose.
Masterpiece. Nothing less than that. Elden Ring is a complex game, you will love it or hate it, is a SOULS game in a beautiful well made inmersive opernworld that reward you for HIGH exploration. Now, I understand poeple will not dig the "git good" part of the souls community, but in this part, after seeing how bad kids put a 1 or a 0 just cause they are new or dont understand the games mechanics, is just unfair. This game brings all the best from all fromsoftware games, even Sekiro, to build up the best game you can ask for. THERE IS A REASON but Souls games are not for everyone, the game doesn´t hold your hand, doesn´t babysit you, it challenges you, it brings the best of you, not everyone are truly comfortable with this kind of liberty, many need a hand on their shoulders. PC seems to have some problems, but honestly Im runing it without problems on a notebook, so is your desktop hardware problem, dont blame the game that bad.
What an amazing piece of work!! Fromsoft raised the bar of the open world games.
Made this account just to say... Don't listen to the troglodytes review bombing this game. I'm a souls fan so maybe I'm a bit biased but I've been have a fantastic time with the game. It's everything I hoped for. The people saying it has PS3 graphics are... Well, not very bright. At all. The game on PS5 does have some frame drops and textures popping in, but it's not at the level where it actually causes problems while playing. Like at all. Gameplay is what you'd expect from souls, but with new features that make it more fun like countering after a guard, ashes of war, horseback combat, and the open world itself. The open world isn't boring at all. There's no major towns or cities, so if that is what you need in an open world game maybe this isn't for you. It's more like BotW's open world, but more crammed with things to see and do. Graphically the game is beautiful. The style and colours are amazing, especially compared to the bleakness of DS3. Yes the graphics aren't as good as Demons Souls Remake, but that was a remake with the express purpose of maxing the graphics. Not to mention, Elden Ring is a game that is cross-generation. It's not supposed to push next gen to its limits, anyone expecting it should have is just delusional. I've been thoroughly enjoying the game and would easily give it a 10/10. Please don't listen to all the people giving it 1s or 0s because their reviews are entirely in bad faith!!
The greatest game of all gaming history. May have some bugs. But guys, it s been only few days! Minor issues will be fixed soon.
This is a completely unbiased review. I actually like DS. It is a game that is fully committed to being itself and doesn't pretend to be anything it's not. This game, through ALL fault of it's own, marketed itself to people who love open world RPG's but just couldn't fall in love with DS because of it's difficulty, repetitiveness and questionable mechanics. They knew that if they threw out George RR Martin's name, promoted "open world" and talked about how this game is a departure from the Souls series for a variety of different reasons, that they would gain a MASSIVE amount of new players. Do you think FromSoftware isn't aware that the majority of people purchase games digitally (AKA not able to be returned) these days? It was a total win win for them. The worst thing that happens is they sell a ridiculous amount of copies, recruit players who were on the fence about Souls games (doesn't matter if they don't like it after the fact), and retain their loyal player base who love DS so that there are enough good reviews to keep up a positive image. A clear bait and switch.
This deserves score higher than 10 this is absolutly perfect and the best openworld game among the games I've ever played.
Lol i laugh with critics of users saying this is copy paste of dark souls 3,it is the best game the industry has to offer up until now,i have played all souls games,bloodborne,sekiro as well as witcher,skyrim,resident evil,call of duty,assassins creed and much much more,i ve been a gamer for 20+ years now and all i can i say is play this amazing experience i wont spoil spoil **** just here as a gamer to state that this game moves the world of gaming forward!!A true masterpiece!!
People that have complained about the low frame rates and other issues either never played a souls game, played a souls game and didnt like it and thought this would be different, or more than likely.....HAVENT READ THE DEVS RESPONSE TO THIS ISSUE. Which they're working on. This is a great game that takes everything FS has learned and combined it into a skyrim like world. Grow up people and stop feeling entitled to having a flawless game.
Best game ever. Graphics are very solid and the combat is as good as ever if not better. Movement is a lot better and everything is just perfect.
Not a game for filthy casusal COD or Fifa boys. If you like any FROM SOFTWARE games then you are in luck. This may have overtaken Dark Souls 1 as my top FS game. The negative reviews are just clowns who can't play the game
Game is straight up garbage. Imagine can’t beating the first boss. It’s 2022, why does the game look like it is on ps3?! Fps drops all around.
This review will concern the game only if you play as a mage, first of all the optimisation for pc is bad, 60fps, can't go higher, can't play with high resolution... Then for the gameplay, as a mage you'll experience some "fun" at the beginning but this fun will rapidly decreased since you're going to be more and more useless by the time spent on the game (lack of damage...). It clearly impact too much of the gameplay for me. There is even an invisible "boss" that you can barely kill just because you're a mage. And if you forget the gameplay as a mage, this game is good but that just don't deserve a 10/10 review like a lot of people did, too much hype just for that... I think it don't deserve more than a 6/10 but i will understand if some people goes with a 7/10.
Reviews obviously were paid off. This game is not perfect. If you thought you were getting an open world rpg with intricate storytelling. Wrong. It’s Dark Souls 4. Giving it a low score you counter all the false 10/10s. Yup.
I want to like this game so much... The elements are all there, but there is just a polish missing from the games aesthetics, and a blandness stemming from the studios inexperience with open world games. There are land marks everywhere smattered with enemies, but there is no real point to them. Exploration is often rewarded by blank grass cliff edges and maybe a few berries to pick. The graphics look old due to poor textures, and the unlocked framerates lead to microstutters. Updates can save this game to a 7/10 but it just lacks the beauty of its predecessor Demons Souls Remake. It still gets a five, because that classic DS formula that is so addictive that it keeps you playing... even if you don't really want to. Believe me, I kind of don't, but I will see it through to the end.
First time playing a game of FromSoftware 6 hours in first main boss defeated and my biggest gripe is how dated controls and combat feel
Elden ring is the best game Elden ring is the best game Elden ring is the best game Elden ring is the best game Elden ring is the best game
the game is hella broken on PS5, the framerate is not smooth at all, the pop in is all over the place, overall bad quality product at launch
Incredible video game. Absolutely spellbinding stuff here from the legendary from software. Oh yes. 75 characters baby!
frame drops and game freezes when we play online, the difficulty is exaggeratedly ridiculous, it makes no sense, it looks like a Dark Souls 4, the graphics look like a game from 2018.
Don’t compare it to anything else, probably you are gonna hate the game first time you play it, but it’s gonna be the best game you have ever played after you finish it, Git Good
Awesome game giving days after days of joy. Not impossible but hard! Last boss was overpowered. Still 10/10 for the value you get and how you get addicted.
This game is absolutely amazing. I'm concerned with all the strange people reviewing with 3 and less on a game that came out 2 days ago that reviews only the framerates and graphics. Absolutely 0 concerns for gameplay and the actual thrill of this game. It is awesome, great world, tight combat, genius coop, and there's always something to find around the corner. A true masterpiece. Don't listen to the butthurts or you will miss on an incredible game that will surely mark a generation.
Great game, pleasant and sometimes oppressive atmosphere, the world is interesting to explore! There are a couple of repetitive tree bosses, but everything else was a pleasant surprise. I, as someone who has played all the leading Souls games, is delighted!
Elden Ring is the stupidest (not the worst) game i have played for a long time. It requires You to memorize a sequence of actions and button pushes to win. It does not require any agility, talent or brain. Just memory, You can take this game on blindfolded after You memorize the sequence. Each and every opponent can be defeated that way. And of course there are no "two options", there is only one option, and one way to defeat an opponent. If You do a mistake You either die, or are severly wounded and will die upon next mistake. It's like a driving license test ****
Game of the century
Masterpiece. Perfect blend of open world exploration, souls like difficulty and bosses, lore, and music. The perfect game.
Greatest game of all time. Play it and make your own mind up about it. The definitive From Software experience.
İ dont believe these folks whos ever say great game ! Demon souls was really good but this game is really has some problems, graphics no so good according to compare demon souls and nosuitable for ps5 but especially drop rate !!! İ couldnt play it as droping ...pls.dont give wrong info to people save money
Honestly the best Game i ever played! (non-souls-pro) Its such fun just to go out and explore. Definitely a must try for everyone that gets bored fast of all the other open world games.
This game doesn't deliver any new ideas, the open-world is just like a 10yo game (it looks nice though). You can't interact with the OW, there are monsters everywhere and that's pretty much all. It's just Dark Souls 4, bigger of the same (a lot of things are copy-pasted from DS games). The difficulty is sometimes absurd, and the level-design still... Well, I would say really weird (to not say bad). I also think that ER is not really open because you are just too weak to explore the world as you want (rpg = lvl system = you have to reach the lvl). There are also strong monsters randomly placed everywhere. Not a bad game overall but not great either.
The ultimate souls experience. Simply the best game made by fromsoftware. Just perfect!
Apart from the frame drop issue which is going to be fixed soon, this game is near perfect. The lore, art direction, atmosphere, combat, boss fights, armor sets, weapons, etc. are as good as ever if not better compared to the previous titles. Fromsoftware worked hard on this game with passion and they outdid themselves, so we should in general be more appreciative of this game especially nowadays that video games are hardly ever made passionately.
I'm seeing tons of terrible ratings. Are you playing the same game i am? It is AESTHETICALLY breathtaking and grafically far more than "ok". The events are incredibly fun and various to the point where, even after more than 20 hours, I'm still amazed of how much different thing, enemies, discoveries, really good bosses, unique dungeons I've found. The combat system is a greatly evolved "dark souls 3" with new, useful and well implemented mechanics. I can get that this game might not be for everyone (not because of his difficulty, because of how it is build) and it's completely fine but I'm just reading hateful and silly reasons filled with untrue statements in order to justify votes that elden ring just doesn't deserves. It's not a perfect game, I'm giving a 9 (9,5 would be perfect but I can't give half-votes), framerate is a problem but not that much on the ps5 version (few times it drops below 50 fps and just for short periods of time)
insane amount of content, one of the best soundtracks that i had listened, incredible fun gameplay, insane ambiance and scenery, 10/10, a masterpice
People complaining about this game went in with completly wrong expectations, which is on them not the game. How can anyone expect Demonssouls Remake graphics in an open world game? It is not reasonable. The games radiates with increadible and unique art design and atmosphere. The controls are very good and you have so much freedom. There is nothing that holds your hand or tells you what to do too much. And the amount of contend and replayability is stunning. I already know that I am looking at thousands of hours of gameplay in the future. Anyone with a clear and open mind who wants to chellenge their strategic approach and dexterity or/and is in search of a piece of art that widens their horizon and fantasy, have to pic this up!
What **** beautiful game, lots of contents and a giant open world, it has some performance problens but it can be solved. This is the ultimate souls like game. This guys who are revewing 3 or low are just to upside down the game
I am 20 hours into the game and I can say that it is the best Fromsoft game so far. It even surpasses Bloodborne and Dark souls 1. The openword is so lively and I have a lot of fun with the game.
Why 97?? Lazy and barren open-world , technically outdated, outdated graphics, outdated animations, assets reused EVERYWHERE, generic/reskin enemies EVERYWHERE.
if you didnt enjoy the former souls games you will not like this one either . yes the graphics are dated . for all the haters stick to your ubisoft assasins creed ect open world games which are no challenge at all.
It's a great game, with a lot of things to do, an immersive map that encourages and rewards exploration while keeping the dark souls mechanics. In my opinion a perfect game, game of the year.
One of the best games I've ever played, simply awesome. I can't wait to replay this game to find all of its secrets.
Awesome game. I see people complaining that this game is overhyped and doesn’t deserve the ratings it gets but I believe all that to be nonsense. This game is easily of the best releases from the past few years.
I knew when every critic review was super positive and every utuber "Strongly recommended" this game that ALL OF THEM ARE 100% PAID SHILLS.!! Its very disappointing how disingenuous they all are. I knew once users reviews were released it would expose this game for the garbage that it is. Dont ever trust any of these people all paid off to lie about the game
Graphics is outdated (near 2013). Very unstable framerate. Whole world is empty and looks like low quality product. It was good 5years ago but not in 2022
Most overrated game of 2022 goes to this game! From Software make awful games and Elden Ring is no different just lackluster in every way.
The best game ı ever played H
Im a big fromsoft fan, played and finished all games. My favorite best is Sekiro, **** loved that game. But this one feels like DS2 with better bosses / environment. The mechanics are very similar, except for the jump feature. The character is slow, and it feels like the mechanics of your character are from 2010: just slow and goofy, while the enemies / bosses have more advanced mechanics, its like your character runs at half the speed, and the bosses are 1.5X speed. just weird. The result is a slow awkward combat system especially when trying to beat a boss. This game feels like 1000 steps back from DS3, and it is not a standalone franchise, feels and plays like DS2 remake. And the frame rate on pc always drops.. **** man, really wanted to love this game.
It’s amazing. Great open world and very addicting. I haven’t had any glitches and the frame rate hasn’t been a problem for me
A souls game that is wildly difficult but fair when compared to other modern fromsoftware titles. Most areas can be taken on or explored right out the gate and the world is full of secrets from rare items to sweet looking gear. First time players will be happy to know this is the most approachable souls game to date!
Where can I begin badly optimised on ps5 yet almost perfect on series x.simply put buy on series x not on PlayStation
lol. These critic reviews are a joke. Is this the first game they have every played? Have they played any games other than dark souls series? No reason why I voted 1. Don't need one. Just like the critic reviews that didn't need a real reason to give out a perfect score.
I am new to FromSoftware titles. From the outside looking in I always thought they looked slow, boring, and too difficult. Once I jumped into Bloodborne, the premise and gameplay loop clicked and I understood why people loved them so much. Elden Ring takes this challenging, yet rewarding, gameplay loop and puts it into a beautiful and massive open world with endless things to go and explore and witness. There are countless epic moments you’ll come across that’ll leave your jaw on the floor. For fans of this genre this game is something really magical that’ll bring enjoyment for years to come. I understand that this game appeals to a niche audience and it’s sad to see that it’s getting review bombed by people outside the genre or people upset with the high scores who just don’t get it. In a similar way, I’m bored to death playing Mario games or Racing Sims, yet I understand those games are not for me so I’m not out there critically reviewing a game I’m not the audience for. I hate call of duty games but I don’t go review bomb them. People really need to grow up and learn to say “this game isn’t for me.” And leave it at that instead of giving it a ridiculous 0/10. Y’all out here making yourselves look silly.
Literally just another Dark Souls game. Oh it's open world? Literally offers nothing new. Up close pixels are choppy and is only partially hidden by the oversaturated lighting and shadows. Japanese game engines are way behind in graphics
The more i play the more i fall in love with this game. It was stressful at the start but once you figure things out it’s something else… easily the best fromsoft game
Pre-ordered the game. I live in Asia and the game does not support English. I was denied a refund because I had already "played the game" which is ironic as I would have not found this issue had I not started the game. Very much looking forward to playing it and it pains me to leave a bad review, being a huge fan of Fromsoftware games, but this is an extremely baffling and disappointing problem that shouldn't have existed in the first place especially in our day and age where international living is about as common as a carton of milk.
This game has some of the most uninteresting and nerdy stuff I’ve ever seen. Why am I fighting a giant crab with zero explanation? I don’t understand how people feel inclined to progress the game if the story ****. A game can’t have a bad story in 2022 and be called a “masterpiece”. Such a waste of potential. Plus the graphics look mid compared to Horizon Forbidden West. And the environments are so dull and bland.
Very good game and good and good very big map and very much enemy types and good map and good game
Fellow Tarnished you must surpass thine inner mind and rate this game a 11/10
Best game ever I ever played,why? Well in Ubisoft or cd project or maybe rockstar or any studio that develops open Word games, they always do the same thing it’s like buying the same game over and over again they put a yellow dot to go there then it’s activate a cut scene or a dialogue with an NPC then you go to some place kill enemy to the objective then do it all over again for 20 hours, this game doesn’t hold your hand or tell you what to do you can go up down left right any direction you want to find something it’s addicting to get stronger it’s addicting to kill enemies to kill bosses to explore the world to see the variety of weapons and enemies to kill them with, and my I add it’s the most beautiful world I ever seen it’s full of creativity, Thank you fromsoftware.
Please ignore all of the idiots giving Elden Ring a 0/10. This game is absolutely amazing. The open world is breathtaking. Miyazaki has created another masterpiece. If you love Dark Souls then you must buy this game right now.
Most of the time when game studios try to innovate and improve their perfectly working game, they burn and crash. But in this case, From Software has improved every aspect of previous Souls games.
GAME OF THE YEAR 2022. Need I say much more? This game improves on litterally everything past FromSoft games have been needing. Love it - and the story is the best they’ve done so far!
24hrs in and I can’t get enough of the exploration, wide range of weapon customisation, armor altering, crafting, real battles that make you feel something, NPCs, variety of different enemies, bosses and it only feels like I’m scratching the surface. This game will have you up till 6am playing it, telling yourself “..I’ll go to sleep after I do this”. It’s so good my girlfriend who’s never played a FromSoft game has became addicted to it. She loves it. Please don’t believe the review bombing about this game. This review is from someone who actually has experienced it.
By far the best out of the series. Never had a game make me drop my jaw as much as elden ring (and trust, I've played ALOT of games). The art and world design is next level, while it may look simple at first, after the castle everything changes. The bosses are next level to, there are multiple that in any other game, you'd expect it to be the final boss. Granted it's not, you are only getting started. Lol, The designs, moves and abilities just leave you there in awe.. Would without question recommend this game to anyone! Granted I will say, this game doesnt hold your hand. It doesn't tell you where to go besides a vague yellow light (grace) or if you skipped something. It really makes you feel like you are truly in control of your own story. You get to choose your own path right at the get go. Also combat is MASSIVELY improved from the past games. There are SO many different melee abilities or spells that really change up the game! Personally, I'll never forget my experiences playing this game, it makes me feel like a kid again, actually staying up all night to get past a certain point. Games like these only come once in a generation. If I was you, I wouldn't miss out on this masterpiece! 10/10. Also if you are worried about framerate, dont be. It's very rare and only in certain areas. Even then it's not bad at all and knowing fromsoftware, I'm sure it'll get fixed soon.
unstable fps, graphics from ps4 played on ps5. I don't enjoy it at all. high marks for no reason. many things recycled by ds3
The game deserves all the praise. Most of the 0 scores are just review bombers/people who haven’t even played the game. Boring open world? Bad graphics? Those saying that clearly haven’t played it. This game is stellar and a masterpiece and the graphics are great. Oh no a game that can be challenging amongst 100s of games that hold your hand. smh
This game is a sure 10. People rating this game in the red just goes to show you can't trust user comments. I do highly recommend this game though, it's as close to a perfect game as we will see.
Best game I have ever played. Combat systems is great, graphics are great. The world is just massive, yet just loaded with content. This is right up there with the best games ever made.
The best Souls game if not the best open world I have ever played. Mysterious, challenging and full of surprises. This is what I was waiting for since they announced it few years ago and they did deliver a masterpiece. I saw many users reviewing this game les than 5 for stupid reasons, don't listen to them and praise the sun!
The open world feels weird at first since it’s a From Software game. It is the best game ever made.
This game is just incredible and giant, as someone who played a lot of souls games I loved Elden ring and even with some few problems with fps my experiencie was awesome.
Game is absolutely what I expected as a long time souls borne fan. FromSoft absolutely nailed this game and I couldn't as for a better game!
This game is everything I've ever wanted in a souls experience. Thank you From Soft.
10/10 waited to long and I’m so happy as to how it turned out definitely game of the year
Game is just breathtaking, imagine an open world dark souls with even cooler bosses and a more epic story being told. Hands down the best Soulsborne game yet, even over my beloved Bloodborne.
The game is definitely good but it’s just good. The ratings overhyped the game and now I’m just a bit disappointed Bc I expected such a top tier game. I’ve had more fun with other games but **** game. I loved the exploration aspect but you can also get lost with your next objective. Just last night I tried to join my friend but it would not work! It was so frustrating. It definitely ruined my night. People have been controversial on this but the graphics of the game are mid. It’s almost like they forgot that grass moves when you walk by it, or that capes don’t go through your body
Best game ever, despite a few performance issues. Myiazaki is a genius. Buy it.
Spectacular in all aspects of the game. Wnvironment is masterpiece. new mechanichs are clever.
Simply Amazing. no doubt that this game is going to win the goty, pure art.
Fantastic open world experience with familiar dark souls combat. •great soundtrack •rewarding exploration •beautiful atmosphere My only complaint so far is the stability of the multiplayer (co op). Hopefully we’ll see an improvement soon. As a solo experience I really have no complaints. I am aware some players are having frame rate issues but for this review I can only speak for my personal experience which has been exceptional!
A natural evolution of dark souls… but this time in a massive open world. This will be one that is played for years to come
Runs great after fixing it with fps unlock tool. Only con is you cant play online with the tool or use hdr. Hope developers come with fix themselves. 1) ****/how-disable-anti-cheat-elden-ring 2) ****/uberhalit/EldenRingFpsUnlockAndMore/releases
It's an excellent game the game design it's wonderful, the lore it's really cool, the OST it's a incredible experience, and the world... Dude the world design it's really crazy I love it
Just wonderful game nothing to say Thank you FromeSoftware for giving us a game such amazing
Elden Ring is a crowning achievement of over a decade of Miyazaki’s and FromSoftware’s work, and an amazing example of how to find a whole new level of fun in a well-known and somewhat worn-out formula. The open world turned out to be a perfect fit for the genre and you can still tell this masterpiece was created by the famous Japanese studio. I honestly haven’t been so excited about a game since the first Dark Souls.
Elden Ring is the real next step for souls-like standards. It is unlike anything FromSoftware has created before, displaying an uncanny world that will keep on wowing players even as they pile up more and more hours of gameplay. Elden Ring is, thus, a prime candidate to become the 2022 GOTY.
An uncompromising vision of wonder and terror, Elden Ring is the ultimate dark fantasy odyssey.
Elden Ring is the true triumph that FromSoftware was striving for all those years. Complete and utter triumph.
As an experience, it's one of the most wondrous and open-ended games I've played in years.
Elden Ring is the culmination of everything Dark Souls brought before it, mixed with a fresh take on the open world genre that leaves no hand held with minimal boring sequences or clogged quest logs. Despite a few growing pains and the real fun beginning a few hours in, Elden Ring is what every game in its genre should strive to be; a challenging, mysterious adventure that never ceases to amaze, only getting better the more time you spend in its dark, yet absolutely beautiful world.
Elden Ring is a tour de force and is maybe the only example of a studio underselling a title. It's an M-rated Breath of the Wild, full of secrets, intrigue, and an enthralling world to explore. It's a game that makes me excited about gaming, and it's fantastic to see a highly anticipated title like this turn out so well.
I'm joyfully exploring every inch of the land and delighting in my discoveries, and I don't see myself stopping any time soon.
Combining the deep and challenging combat FromSoftware is known for with a vast and varied world that's always a pleasure to explore, Elden Ring is quite simply incredible. From the moment you step foot into The Lands Between you'll be engrossed, and while you'll no doubt experience some setbacks on your adventure – such as a boss that at first seems impossible to defeat – there's always somewhere else to go to cool off, pick yourself up, and perhaps power yourself up before returning to have another go. That is to say, you don't just play Elden Ring; you live in its world for hours at a time. It will consume you, but you'll willingly throw yourself into its maw with fervour.
Elden Ring is an exceptional, accomplished work that realises a fantasy world of solemnity, beauty, and menacing uncertainty you can’t help but lose yourself in.
Deep, wide, and absolutely packed with adventure, Elden Ring's immense, deadly open world is nothing short of game-changing.
Elden Ring is a constantly surprising adventure that has taken FromSoftware’s tried-and-tested formula to delirious new heights. One of the best video games of the last decade, and an absolutely essential release, Elden Ring really does confirm that 2022 is off to an incredible start.
FromSoftware effortlessly immerses you into the beautiful world of The Lands Between, with challenging enemies, secret treasures, and deep lore tucked away into every corner. This is, without a doubt, FromSoftware's best project yet, showcasing a culmination of all their previous games.
An unrivalled feat of design and inventiveness.
Elden Ring is exactly what fans want it to be, and it very likely will become many people's favorite FromSoftware title yet.
Elden Ring is the embodiment of From Software’s best work yet. Top-notch quality of another huge soulslike adventure persists, especially in the cryptically epic story co-written by George R. R. Martin and in the ingeniously vast and visually stunning world of Lands Between that sets the new standard for open world games. And of course, you can expect a lot of dying, rolling, and rage-quitting. Elden Ring is a must play for every fan, but it also makes so many good steps towards accessibility for a greater audience.
Elden Ring sets a new standard in Open world games and it takes us to new horizons that has us excited for the future of Souls games.
Elden Ring is a fantastic game that can still deliver the unmatched thrill of defeating a tough boss after an hours-long battle. Those who worship at the church of Souls-like will find a game that’s basically everything they ever wanted.
Elden Ring packs its intricately crafted world - a world which should be used as a reference point for open-world design moving forward - with more impressive boss fights and secrets than you can shake a giant greatsword at. Although its punishing combat system may not be to everyone’s taste, it is an essential experience both for FromSoftware newcomers and seasoned veterans alike.
With Elden Ring, we're in masterpiece territory. FromSoftware is consistently great, of course, and I don't mean to denigrate Sekiro or Dark Souls here, as they're all exceptional, but Elden Ring has all the potential to have a similar level of impact as Demon's Souls here. Spinning a richly evocative and carefully paced tale of darkness and misery, Elden Ring isn't the most easygoing game, either in terms of its storytelling or general difficulty. However, not only is it majestic in scope and vision, it is one of the most perfect examples of how an open world structure can be used to the thematic benefit of the game, rather than just be a massive space used to hurl worthless content at players. In this way, Elden Ring joins a very elite group indeed... and is has arguably topped it.
Elden Ring is both a refinement and evolution of the Dark Souls formula, presenting an expansive world that's as hostile as it is inviting. Despite the occasional excess, suffering has never been as much fun as this.
FromSoftware doesn’t rewrite the medium’s rulebook, but does tear its own tenets asunder while reconstructing them into a cohesive whole that outclasses all that came before it. The Lands Between invites you to explore it with an unparalleled level of freedom, offering up a plate of seemingly impenetrable challenges and intimately constructed stories that are always a delight to indulge in. This is, without doubt, one of the best games in recent memory.
Elden Ring is a masterpiece. From its expertly crafted open-world design that rewards the player for taking the chance to explore to its riveting lore, FromSoftware has delivered what can only be described as a deliberate and thoughtful experience. While some of its visual stylings are starting to show its age already, Elden Ring’s gameplay is the result of years of fine-tuning to be as rewarding as it is challenging. Many wondered if FromSoftware could put the level of detail into an open world that they have with their previous games. They’ve achieved that, and so much more.
However, when judged on its own merits, Elden Ring is a phenomenal game that will disappoint very few. It has most of the components that fans of the genre seek: a wondrous aesthetic, a feeling of mystery that invites exploration, skillfully designed and intimidating adversaries, and rich gameplay with a lot of replayability thanks to the various classes and builds. In the end, Elden Ring is more than just an open-world Dark Souls. It is strong in its own right, with tweaks to the classic Souls blueprint that create a refreshing new experience that still feels familiar.
I’ve absolutely enjoyed my time with Elden Ring, and while I’d say my expectations were high prior to playing the game, those expectations have certainly been met or even exceeded along my journey. It feels like a culmination of everything FromSoftware has accomplished in the genre so far, offering up a robust world with tons of exploration married to the unique combat we’ve come to expect from their previous titles. I can’t necessarily say that there’s enough changes here that will appeal to people who have bounced off of Souls games previously, but it’s such a great looking (and playing) game that I think if you enjoy action-RPG’s in the slightest that it’s still worth a shot. And of course if you’re already a FromSoftware fan, then I’d imagine you’re already on board, and I can safely say that you won’t be disappointed.
Elden Ring is not only the best game FromSoftware has released to date, but it's also one of the best open world games I've enjoyed in recent years. We are facing a title that manages to perfectly mix each of its elements, and the results really could not be better.
It’s lore always feels epic, but is ultimately hardcore fantasy nonsense and what’s going to keep you in Elden Ring for the long run is the amount to discover and the versatility and challenge at every turn. It has been equal parts a pleasure and hell to play Elden Ring. Because this is an amazing game and the developers have built a mind-boggling but nightmarish world to live and fight in. But it’s also one incredibly tough cookie from the off, and - casual gamers beware - you’ll have a lot of frustrating setbacks as you slowly progress as a warrior. Another wonderful video game for 2022. It’s already becoming a top year for consoles.
While boasting an overwhelming amount of content, not once did the world of Elden Ring feel tedious. The game’s level design is simply astounding and its map is filled not with chores but with a magnificent sense of adventure. While the fundamentals of the battle mechanics are borrowed from Dark Souls, the speedier flow of action and additional freedom in customization of equipment, items and magic allow you to fight your own way. The story is more dramatic and easier to follow than in previous FromSoftware titles. This and many more features make Elden Ring a marvel of a game that could become a serious threat to the balance of your daily life.
An extraordinary milestone that will likely cast as long of a shadow over other open world games as Dark Souls already did over most action RPGs during the last decade.
A series so influential it becomes its own genre. That alone is FromSoft’s crowning achievement. For Elden Ring, the most recent iteration of that series, all superlatives fall short. This game is a timeless masterpiece that will go down in history as a milestone, not only for the genre and developer From Software, but for gaming as a whole.
Elden Ring is a superlative title, one of those works capable of becoming an event and becoming engraved in the collective imagination. It achieves this by remaining faithful to its formula and exporting its identity to the concept of the open world, achieving its own personal approach, resulting in a world that is visually stunning, and that works with overwhelming precision in terms of mechanics. An excellent videogame that also maintains the concreteness of its proposal.
Elden Ring took the best parts of previous FromSoftware games and expanded them across a living open-world with endless discovery, excitement, and danger. It's not lost the edge of previous titles, but it is the most approachable FromSoftware game yet, and is an excellent point for players to jump in on if they've not tried previous titles. While its technical issues can be annoying, even they can't dampen the experience of playing Elden Ring. FromSoftware's latest is an artistic, innovative and cultural achievement like nothing before it.
It’s all terrifically done, especially when coupled with the story, which is full of mystery and plenty interesting. Elden Ring gets the little things right, too; the music that backs your journey is some of the best (and most well-utilized) in gaming. And every enemy feels distinct; you’ll face plenty of soldier-types, but the dragons and wildlife and the giant ogre-types that pepper certain lands inspire plenty of awe.
Here, exploration is everything. Elden Ring is an RPG but one which elevates role playing to the point of vérité. You are as much the stranger in a strange land as your avatar; basic controls and some mechanics are explained in what passes for the game's tutorial, but that’s about it. There’s no quest log, no icon-studded mini-map, no on-screen overlays or bread crumb trail telling you what to do next, or even where to go. Everything else must be learned, either decoded from oblique item descriptions in-game or gleaned from invaluable internet communities. Death is not so much a setback to be avoided as a necessary staging post on the path to enlightenment. It may sound daunting in theory but in practice it’s exhilarating. Every inch of progress in Elden Ring feels earned, and is thus infinitely more rewarding for it.
Elden Ring is a masterclass in world design. It improves almost all of the bases of FromSoftware’s previous titles and adds upon them many new ones, with its verticality, astonishing world and great combat and story. It is a penultimate soulslike title, and one that will be surely played and remembered for years to come, putting a high bar for action RPGs and firmly sitting as one of the best video games ever.
I just wrote a 2800+ word review about a game that left me speechless. I cannot describe how smart, fun, surprising, engaging, challenging, rewarding and addicting Elden Ring is. This is not just another game - it's FromSoftware's Magnum Opus.
Never before has such detail and passion been offered to the open world genre. Elden Ring is a masterclass of game design. From the massive, dense open world to the like-clockwork dance of combat, the amazing character design and seemingly unlimited gameplay choices. Each element of the game has been carefully crafted with love and purpose, making every little or large moment something worth discovering. Elden Ring is truly something special and this is going to be an incredibly tough act to follow for any open world game that comes after.
Solid gameplay, over the top world design, terrifying boss fights, eye catching visuals, deep combat mechanisms, endless possibilities, and many, many other things can be said about Elden Ring, but non of them can truly describe it for what it is. Elden Ring is out of this world, and you will have to play it.
Elden Ring is a game with a breathtaking universe, with crazy ambition. The effective gameplay coupled with the immense pleasure of exploration that is always rewarded are matched only by the fierce requirements of the game. More accessible than other FS productions, it offers the opportunity to discover a world of crazy elegance, with an artistic direction that is quite simply masterful. A generous world we no longer want to leave. An absolute masterpiece.
Whether Elden Ring is perfect is beside the point. What matters is that it’s the ultimate expression of a blueprint first laid out in Dark Souls. It’s made my favorite game of all time feel like a practice run.
Not for the first time, a Miyazaki game has arrived and the landscape appears transformed. As you play, there is a sense of plates shifting beneath you, of the T&Cs of game development being hastily rewritten. We haven’t felt this way since “Breath of the Wild.” Here, as there, an open world means freedom and fresh air. [Issue#370, p.96]
More than anything, we must always stress that, yes, the Lands Between — the open world, therefore — is the main highlight. In an era taken by mediocre open-world games, it's refreshing to see that a company new to this concept got it so precisely right. There's no doubt about it: this is, indeed, one of the best games of recent years. If you're a fan of Open Worlds, no matter what level of challenge you're used to, give it a go. The chances of regret are almost zero. We often think of FromSoftware games in extreme ways. I love it. I hate it. It's amazing. It's unbearable. Elden Ring does bump into these dualities, but tends to be much more attractive to the public in general.
Elden Ring is a stunning achievement from a literal video game architecture perspective, along with creating a difficult but not wildly punishing game that everyone, even non-Soulsborne devotees, should be able to enjoy. I have not been this impressed with an open world since Skyrim, and Elden Ring even surpasses that in many ways. It’s an easy game to recommend to anyone and everyone, and deserves the explosive sales success we’ve seen, dwarfing old FromSoft records. Elden Ring is a gaming achievement the likes of which we rarely seen, and you will be remiss to not pick it up and see what the hype is about for yourself.
Elden Ring is FromSoftware taming the monster they created, not by filing down its teeth and claws, but by giving players the weapons and armor to endure it.
Elden Ring is simply a game that the player naturally adapts to their own style of play. Challenging at times, vicious at others, but mostly incredibly fun. The enjoyable pace makes the hours of play pass by like water, and each path opens up a few more, only to come together again after a fair amount of exploration before the next big reveal. [Issue#318]
Elden Ring is an awe-inspiring achievement. Both a summary and bold step forward, it fuses FromSoftware's best and most effective ideas with an endlessly engaging open world. Its combat is the most refined of the series, challenging yet accessible to new players. Elden Ring includes an incredible amount of quality content. More importantly, it offers a captivating, polished experience fraught with danger and filled with beauty.
Instead of a new IP, Elden Ring feels like a swan song; the culmination of 13 years refining a genre. All the ideas and lessons of FromSoftware latest works converge inside the biggest, richest and exquisitely designed open world we've ever set foot on. It honestly feels like a game that won't be surpassed for years.
FromSoftware has delivered a masterpiece with Elden Ring. The developer has put every lesson they've learned in the past into the game and perfected every gameplay-element. Add to that an enormous and diverse open world, the ability to travel and fight on horseback and the fact that Elden Ring is still challenging, while being more welcoming to new players. It's an epic adventure that not a single gamer should miss out on.
Elden Ring has, from now on, a place of honor in the pantheon of the best video games in history. From Software needed 13 years to refine to the last detail its vision of a genre that has influenced the industry like few studios before and give us a totally overwhelming title both for its content and for the sense that has every last object and pixel of the Lands Between.
A must play for action-RPG fans looking for deep combat systems and an expansive open-world that truly rewards exploration.
Elden Ring is the next evolution of the “Souls” genre. It feels both familiar and truly unique. Fans of previous “Souls” games will feel right at home, while appreciating the new features, mechanics and quality of life improvements the game has to offer.
Elden Ring is the culmination of all the Souls entries up to this point, creating a near perfect gameplay experience filled to the brim with incredible boss fights, gorgeous graphics, and an insanely large world to explore. A variety of new ideas, including crafting and the addition of the spirit horse Torrent, help bring a new level of immersion to the proceedings while simultaneously helping Elden Ring feel like a unique entry in the Souls genre. With gameplay tailored for players who want to experience the world solo as well as those who wish to play nearly the entire game in co-op, Elden Ring is a masterclass in design. Minor gripes about a couple of boss fights and the sheer density of the world to explore leaving many areas potentially undiscovered aside, Elden Ring is a nearly flawless experience which old and new fans of the Souls series will enjoy.
While it feels like the impact of Breath of the Wild is waning as the open world genre starts to stagnate again, Elden Ring stands out as not only an achievement in FromSoftware’s hall of fame, but also as an open-world RPG. Elden Ring is without a doubt, FromSoft’s most ambitious undertaking yet, and like Dark Souls before it, I believe it will leave a permanent mark on both the open-world genre and the games industry in general.
Elden Ring feels like the natural evolution of a video game series that continues to reinvent itself after more than 13 years of its birth. FromSoftware is simply the best at what they do. While there are some technical issues and repetitive structures and creatures, Elden Ring is a cruelly wonderful piece of work and one of the best adventure games of recent years.
Elden Ring borrows a lot from Dark Souls and a bit from Bloodborne and Sekiro. With the blueprints of those games in their hands, FromSoftware started building and building. The result is a hugely good open world game that leaves an unforgettable impression in both scale and detail, but also scares.
Elden Ring is exactly the game people were hoping it would be. It's the biggest FromSoft Soulslike to date, with a ton of polish and a bucketload of content. It won't change your mind if you don't enjoy the genre, but Elden Ring accomplishes what it had set out to do. Not every new feature hits, and it sometimes felt a touch too familiar, but when the biggest complaint I can think of is, "It feels like some of the best games ever made," that is a sign of its quality. Elden Ring is the game we've all been waiting for.
Elden Ring is a true soulslike that does some wonderful things with the concept of an open world, and its hands-off exploration. I haven't had so much fun with an open world since Red Dead Redemption 2. A difficult, satisfying, and otherwise excellent game!
All things considered, Elden Ring is a crowning achievement for FromSoftware but also for gaming. It takes the overused open world formula and flips it with a focus on exploration and freedom. It eliminates those limiting markers and quest objectives which every game since The Witcher 3 has used and that have really dampened the open world formula. For a game all about tradition, with its fantasy aesthetic and kings or rulers, it is amazing that Elden Ring breaks the mold and tradition by making such a compelling and intriguing experience. Once the bugs have been ironed out, there is no doubt in my mind that Elden Ring will be looked upon as one of the best games ever created despite the difficulty. It will be looked upon as a genre defining classic.
Elden Ring delivers what it promises: it's a souls-like fantasy action RPG game developed by FromSoftware, with the influence of Hidetaka Miyazaki and George R.R. Martin, that brings a sprawling realm fully immersed in a rich and bloody story and that certainly will have every fan of fantasy and challenge ready to immerse themselves in this universe for hours and hours. Get ready for lots of action, epic battles, adventure, exploration and hardship.
With Elden Ring, From Software establishes an ideal model in open world game design. Neither too empty nor artificially crowded, with each adventure bringing a significant reward, albeit proportionate to the intensity of the challenge. The game sets a new paradigm for the genre, as it strikes a perfect balance by rewarding the player for each task accomplished, exploration well performed, or each battle won. The journey is massive, full of content and with minimal repetition. Elden Ring delivers extensive customization and an even more enhanced combat system than its spiritual predecessors. This aspect, added to the online component, will surely ensure a healthy community for years to come. It is unfortunate that performance issues exist, but such a factor should not be an impediment for the community to enjoy such a special game.
FromSoftware surpass themselves and create a magnificent action masterpiece that is unique in terms of open world design.
Although I still find the original Dark Souls to be FromSoftware's magnum opus, Elden Ring is an undeniably amazing game. At the end of the day, it's sure to delight most Souls veterans but it probably won't convert many non-fans.
Elden Ring can be seen as the dawn of a new era on FromSoftware. The game is a really deep experience, with amazing visuals, an unique sense of freedom, and of course, the hard-fought battles that we all love to hate. A well-rounded RPG filled with challenges, many different places to explore and great mechanics. It's GOTY material.
Elden Ring is more than a mixture of Dark Souls, Bloodborne and Sekiro. Its huge game world invites you to explore, and there is much more optional than mandatory content. There are some minor balance issues, but they blench out considering all the strengths. In total, Elden Ring does not quite reach its predecessors on the eye level, but the game is still a need to play for any action rpg fan.
Make no mistake, Elden Ring is to the Souls subgenre what Breath of the Wild was to the Zelda franchise; it took a classic dungeon-diving formula and opened it up, adding more choice, nuance, and combat flexibility in the process. It feels destined to kickstart a wave of "did you know you could do this?" YouTube videos, and a deeper discussion of build-crafting. Elden Ring isn’t Dark Souls 4 or just ‘Big Souls’, but it’s damn close, and represents the evolution the series needed and manages to be everything else we wanted it to be.
An enormous world which is always entertaining, an artistic and narrative coherence so strong that it reminds of Lordran, a sheer amount of content that is seriously overwhelming, and a near perfect concept design, make Elden Ring the best result that is possible to achieve within the “soulsborne” formula, with all its traditional strengths and weaknesses.
Elden Ring feels like the game FromSoftware has been building up to ever since Demon’s Souls released in 2009. A huge open world filled to the brim with challenging enemies, characters sporting obvious influence from George R. R. Martin, and the typical drip-feed of lore FromSoftware is famous for crafting all combine to form an intoxicating adventure you won’t soon forget. Yes, the formulaic nature of these games is absolutely showing after three console generations, but as the saying goes, if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it!
This isn’t just Dark Souls with an open world tacked on. Instead, developer FromSoftware weaves its familiar formula into a massive playground so expertly that we can’t help but wonder how we ever played Dark Souls without it.
Elden Ring is the definitive FromSoftware game. With a refined combat system packing new ideas and an open world perfect for exploration, it sets a new benchmark for titles of this ilk to strive for. This is the Japanese developer firing on all cylinders — far and away its best creation yet. Elden Ring is an utterly essential PS5 title.
There are no other dynamics quite like it in games; they acquaint us with an array of miseries and charge us money for the privilege.
With its new open-world dimension, Elden Ring brilliantly fleshes out FromSoftware's already highly effective formula and offers Souls a spiritual sequel that is both ambitious and accessible. All the new features converge towards this last objective: the open world allows you to arm yourself more than ever with the epic and obligatory fights that the adventure reserves, without having the impression of walking around just to farm. And the best part is that it doesn't compromise the sense of accomplishment so important to the genre. Elden Ring is a complete, mysterious experience, where curiosity is tirelessly renewed by the feeling of discovering something for the first time. All with a sumptuous artistic direction, which makes you want to get lost, to explore. The title also welcomes new features that offer strategic choices in combat, without betraying their requirement. We only regret a slight lack of ambition for certain Legacy Dungeons, as well as the recycling of some assets and bosses. Overall, an exceptional title.
A masterful blend of Dark Souls and Zelda: Breath Of The Wild that makes high demands of its players and yet still remains surprisingly accessible and adaptable.
The massive open game world isn't the earth-shattering innovation we expected from FromSoftware, but thankfully the Dark Souls foundation it's built over is just as strong and addictive as we've come to expect from the studio. It's the seventh piece of evidence that no one really does boss fights and epics as well as Hidetaka Miyazaki.
The years of waiting were worth it, Elden Ring is brilliant. It offers a huge amount of content, a beautiful world and addictive gameplay. But the series does start to feel a little bit stale.
Elden Ring is a very entertaining game that takes a lot from other FromSoftware titles. Its beautiful open world is a double-edged sword: on the one hand, it invites you to explore, but on the other, it makes you face the same enemies over and over again until you are sick of it.
Sure, the new From Software title still operates like a typical Souls game insofar as it thrusts you into a mysterious world filled with beguiling monstrosities to kill. But enough tweaks have been made to create an experience that is, dare I say it, somewhat comforting.
FromSoftware is back with Elden Ring and although we had to wait a long time, it was worth it. The new approach with an open world works particularly well and that is partly due to the strong gameplay and beautiful environments that excel especially in style. In addition, the many bosses are incredibly cool and the soundtrack is fantastic. A must have, but know that the PS5 version has to contend with frame rate issues.
Despite all of us playing the same game, what we experience in Elden Ring will be unique to each of us, and that is where the crux of its power lies. It is these differing experiences and its powerful emphasis on discovery that make Elden Ring a game that is worth discovering for yourself. Many will appreciate it, few will master it, but all will acknowledge it as a distinctive adventure that is as rewarding as it is dangerous.
A must have action-RPG with deep combat systems and an very interesting open-world. Sadly all is not perfect and graphics are totally outdated and AI have some problems.
Elden Ring is everything that I dreamed of and more. Although I did expect From Software to refine the Souls recipe, I was quite surprised by the large amount of new mechanics and how well the Souls formula has been implemented in an open-world environment. But it’s not just the exploration aspect that makes Elden Ring the best Souls game out there. The massive open-world that doesn’t feel empty at all, the huge number of bosses and dungeons, as well as the boss fights elevate it to an entirely new level. Elden Ring is From Software at its best.
Elden Ring is neither a step forward nor backward for the famed developer, but rather a shift to the side. It’s a different kind of FromSoftware game, one that mixes stampeding mounted combat in a vast world with more intimate, terrifying moments in dark caves and cramped castles. I’m having a grand time with it, make no mistake, but it’s not my favourite FromSoftware game to date.
Elden Ring serves as a testament to open world video game design. There is a true sense of accomplishment once that rock-hard enemy has been slain and, something that compels a player to relentlessly do it over and over again until they succeed is truly rewarding. The world is humongous and an epitome of how exploration should be encouraged, by intriguing players to see what is over the hill. Elden Ring is an unmissable, must-play, gaming experience with surprises galore.
Translating 13 years of legacy into a gigantic open world was quite a big challenge, and FromSoftware did it brilliantly with Zelda Breath of the Wild as a guide. But, to be honest, we don't share the opinion of most of our colleagues: Elden Ring is an excellent title, but it still lacks something to have the stuff of a GOTY 2022.
Elden Ring is an unrelenting, engrossing, challenging, and marvelous experience. It brings the Dark Souls formula to an open world setting without skipping a beat, with all of its cryptic nature, punishing combat and wondrous level design. It's still not for everyone, but those who dare enter this realm may find themselves in one of the best games of the year.
Elden Ring needed to be fresh and bold, and it succeeds, putting you in charge of your own adventure. However the open world has some uneven terrain. [Issue#12, p.80]
Elden Ring's engaging combat, mythology and dynamite orchestral soundtrack goes a long way to overshadow an aggressive open world that punishes exploration from the beaten path. Fans of the Souls genre are in for a treat, while newcomers will need to persist to reap the benefits.
Elden Ring remains a glorious game, one that established fans are going to savour for some time to come, and one that may just welcome new fans into the FromSoft fold. Sumptuous visual design, dark and detailed lore and a vast-but-intricate open world are reason enough to venture out into the Lands Between. Add to that FromSoftware's unforgiving and unforgettable gameplay loop and this is something truly special. [Eurogamer Essential]
Elden Ring is the natural next step for FromSoftware, which last delivered a huge fantasy world like this in Dark Souls 3. That game featured a sprawling, interconnected world, a vast armory, and an incredible amount to learn, wield, and discover. Elden Ring is that game amplified — it plucks the best from Bloodborne, with its compact, puzzle-like mini-dungeons, and Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which offered new levels of mobility and faster action. But, all told, FromSoftware has done more than just remix its earlier games and layer on open-world influence with Elden Ring. The studio’s conversation with the player goes in fascinating new directions, and there are great surprises here for longtime fans of Souls games; From clearly knows what we expect of its castles, its boss encounters, the random out-of-nowhere ambushes, and it plays with those expectations. Sometimes it means I die unexpectedly. And sometimes it makes me smile
After over 20 hours spent in this kind of explore-and-bounce-off-a-boss pattern, I still feel like I’ve barely scratched the surface of Elden Ring’s entrancing world (not to mention the many magical systems that aren’t really available to my character’s warrior class). I’m not sure I’ll ever have the patience or discipline to endure all of the punishing boss battles I still have ahead of me. But I can easily see myself just hopping on a horse, picking a direction, and galloping off into the many unexplored corners of Elden Ring.
The Jeffs and Jan convene and hold gnarled fingers together to chat about their harrowing adventures in the world of Elden Ring.
Probably the easiest, most enticing way to describe the sheer scale of Elden Ring is to say it’s like receiving two to three new Dark Souls games in one.
Elden Ring is one of those rare games that leads the industry by exemplifying with its open-world design and elaborate dungeon crawling, never-ending content that could fill several games. [Recommended]
Like most great works, Elden Ring is magnificently flawed, equal parts beautiful and ostentatious. In this age of cookie-cutter, paint-by-numbers, triple-A development, what more can you ask for than something wholly confident in its bullshit? Now, if you’ll excuse me, I’m only about one-third of the way through the game and would love to see at least one of its multiple endings sometime this year.