In a similar way to how Obsidian's The Outer Worlds played very closely to a space-faring Fallout, Avowed sticks closely to the sensibilities of The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim. Its fantasy world isn't as expansive and seamlessly stitched together, but you'd be forgiven for confusing the two at a glance, especially when you're engaged in its first-person combat. Avowed lifts some of the best aspects of the seminal RPG and improves them, especially when it comes to its refined combat. These changes extend to a move away from traditional leveling in favor of a gear-focused approach, as well as the option to experiment with wild weapon combinations. But not all of Avowed's experiments are successes, leading to an uneven role-playing adventure that surprises as much as it frustrates.
Washing up on the shores of the Living Lands, you play as one the Godlike: a select few kissed by the grace of a god at birth and left with some distinct (and sometimes frightening) facial features to show for it. On a mission from a distant monarch whose influence within the Living Lands has many of its inhabitants up in arms, your job is to track down the source of a plague that's turning the land's people into mindless, bloodthirsty creatures, before it manages to make it back home. Although it is set in the same universe as Pillars of Eternity, Avowed does a good job of immediately siloing you into an area that requires little knowledge of what is happening across the ocean, but does reference some historical events from time to time. A glossary of important names and places is available as they're brought up in conversation, providing a handy guide that contextualizes some attitudes characters have to certain factions and events around you.
Avowed makes a strong initial impression, quickly establishing your Godlike status but with the odd quirk of being the first not to know which god chose you. This isn't the main purpose of your mission, but that changes after a surprising event in the early hours of the game that sets the stage for a more intriguing answer to the plague ravaging the Living Lands. This setup is ultimately squandered, however, with the two big narrative hooks coalescing with one another in routinely expected and uninteresting ways, making the broader strokes of the story largely forgettable. The conversational writing does have its moments of charm, with equally serious and snarky retorts letting you inject some levity into otherwise dire situations with great comedic effect. But the severity of the plague you're trying to stop and the personal journey of finding out why you're the only Godlike without a god is not as captivating as it could be, taking steps along a narrative path that rarely deviates into surprising avenues.
Your choices shape parts of the world around you and dictate some directions the story goes, and these do manifest in some interesting ways. A character I saved from a cell in the first hour of the game reappeared hours later to help me complete another side quest without having to pay a large sum of money or resort to violence. The reappearance was surprising but natural, slotting a character into a pack of bandits that would've otherwise been a problem if not for me showing some compassion hours earlier.
Another instance saw me also avoiding a confrontation by playing some side quests in a specific order, with the conclusion of one (and the choice I made at the end of it) unlocking some dialogue options in a latter part of the chain that guided the conversation down an amicable path. These moments stand out particularly because of how naturally they occur, giving your actions a sense of place in the world without having to signpost instances where your choices may or may not matter. This applies to the main quest too, albeit with more distinct black-and-white choices. These are clear forks in the road that determine reactions from characters around you, but their binary nature makes them less elegant (and thus, less interesting).
Core to some of Avowed narrative failings are its uninteresting companions. Kai, the first you encounter in the game's opening hour, joins your plight after little more than an introductory conversation, and very quickly is devoted to the cause without enough time to establish why. Others, like the animancer Giatta and quirky mage Yatzli, have more recognizable motivations when joining your party, but none of the four in total stand out as particularly interesting or complex. They're far more exciting in what they bring to the experience in terms of combat and abilities, but never manage to drum up the same interest in their backstories and evolving relationship with your character.
Avowed moves you between a handful of hubs throughout its narrative, which are all visually varied and stunning to look at. The inviting forestry and idyllic coasts of Dawnshore contrast the desolate deserts of Shatterscarp, with eye-catching pops of color and warm lighting inviting you to take in the sights around you. These areas act as large hubs that you can explore freely once unlocked, each with their own faction-aligned city to explore, side quests to undertake, and secrets to uncover. Getting around in Avowed is surprisingly satisfying thanks to a keen sense of verticality to exploration. It leverages a simple, yet effective, platforming system that lets you reliably make daring jumps and last-ditch lunges towards an inviting ledge to mantle up onto. This is emphasized by some straightforward but nonetheless fun platforming puzzles strewn around the map, often with either interesting loot or great views at the end. Avowed eschews the janky platforming of its influences with something that feels more purposeful, and its world is designed incredibly well to support it.
Avowed lifts some of the best aspects of the seminal RPG and improves them ... but not all of Avowed's experiments are successes, leading to an uneven role-playing adventure that surprises as much as it frustrates
This sense of refinement translates to Avowed's combat, which again feels like an improvement over its clear influences. You're offered a variety of options when building your offensive arsenal, from standard swords and shields to dual-wielding magical grimoires and elemental muskets. Avowed entices experimentation with numerous weapons by offering two loadouts that can be swapped between at any time, letting you switch from up-and-close slashes to ranged spellcasting with the press of a button. Action feels crunchy and impactful, too: An axe feels like it's burying itself into the enemies at the unfortunate end of your swings, while magical explosions shower the screen with eye-catching effects that emphasize their power. Slight pauses when executing powerful finishers (once you've whittled down an enemy's stamina bar) lets you revel in the violence, even if other actions such as parrying don't feel as tightly animated and satisfying to consistently pull off. Combining your unlockable abilities with the varied ones companions bring to the table gives combat a layer of complexity that is satisfying to engage with.
The feedback that combat offers entices you to see how each weapon type works and looks in a skirmish, which makes it surprising that so few are found in chests, offered as quest rewards, or just lay strewn around the map. Merchants offer opportunities to purchase new weapons but at heavily inflated prices, forcing you to use what you're lucky enough to get your hands on. It's fun to make some combinations work--using a sword and pistol makes for exciting combat that lets you deal lots of damage but forces you to evade a lot too--but ability upgrades stifle that, encouraging you instead to prioritize specific weapon types. These upgrades are ones you'd find in a traditional RPG where you're building toward a specific build, rather than ones that encourage you to make weird but interesting combinations work. It's difficult to make some of Avowed's most-interesting combinations synergize when it's far more effective to stick to one-handed weapons and buff their damage and critical chances, instead of spreading your limited ability points across multiple types that make you a jack of all trades.
Worse still is the imbalance in Avowed's progression that further reduces your options when constructing a viable class. Instead of scaling enemies with traditional numerical levels, foes are instead defined by the tier of gear they're wearing. In order to take on more challenging enemies, which come thick and fast as you progress from one hub to another, you need to continually upgrade your own equipment. The big problem is just how scarce most crafting materials are, making it difficult to keep just one piece of armor and two weapons up to date with the enemy scaling around you. Merchants are equally greedy with materials as they are with new weapons, giving you few options to continue trying to get your existing equipment to a new, higher tier or expediting the process with a new weapon entirely. This further pushes you into focusing on just one weapon type and class, to the point where the second loadout became completely irrelevant before I found myself halfway through my journey.
Although doing side-quests help with accruing money, quest rewards do little to help with the grind for materials. For the most part the payouts don't put a dent in the large price tags on the most-exclusive offerings from merchants, while equipment rewards rarely fill the gap. Finding a weapon with unique attributes is often a bittersweet one, given how hard it is to pivot from your existing loadout that you've already committed to upgrading and potentially restarting that process at your current tier with new gear. You can choose to respec for a flat fee, letting you rebuild your class around a new, higher tier weapon, but you have to be equally careful doing this too given how difficult it is to accrue a meaningful gold balance. Even if you prioritize side quests and as much optional content as possible in each of Avowed's hubs, it's never nearly enough to prevent your companions from screaming the same barks during combat pleading with you to upgrade your armor and weapons to survive.
It turns the impactful combat into drawn-out skirmishes where you're vulnerable to a quick flurry of attacks while slowly chipping away at an enemy. Large groups become incredibly dangerous when even just one or two enemies are a few gear levels above your own due to the time it takes to dispatch them and how easily they can flatten you. Combat encounters also scale in a manner that suggests you should be keeping up with ease, as larger waves flood skirmishes and quickly overwhelm you and your two companions in tow. Checkpoints are not as forgiving as you might expect, sometimes throwing you back multiple encounters that you might have tediously slogged through just to have to suffer through them again. These hurdles were prevalent on the game's default Normal difficulty setting, with a total of five to choose from at any time. I tested what impact knocking things down to Easy had and although it improved my odds at survival in many late-game battles, it still didn't alleviate the tedium of whittling down enemies with vastly superior gear. Avowed doesn't owe you a straightforward power fantasy, but it is woefully balanced currently, to the point of persistent frustration.
On multiple fronts, Avowed holds so much promise that it struggles to follow through on. While its combat feels impactful and gives you options to experiment with, it's hamstrung by an overall reliance on gear upgrades and scarce resources that prevent you from fully enjoying the creative freedom it initially advertises. Its world is fun to explore and navigate, but its story fails to wrap this in a captivating tale with a satisfying conclusion. It's an experience that routinely swaps between exhilarating moments and frustrating slogs, and often leans towards the latter the closer you get to the game's climax. Avowed might present itself as the new age of the fantasy role-playing games that it borrows so much from, but it's unlikely to have the same lasting impact.
There is no game series out there that means more to me than Virtua Fighter. I spent my weekly allowance to play VF and VF2 in arcades, cavorted cross-country in search of rare Virtua Fighter 3 cabinets, and eventually connected with overseas friends by playing VF4 Evolution and Final Tuned in Japan. So when I see a new--or new-ish, in this case--Virtua Fighter game get released, I want it to be the best it can possibly be. Not just for myself, but so others can pick it up and understand why we longtime Virtua Fighter players adore these games so much.
Virtua Fighter 5 Ultimate Showdown--released a few years back on PS4--was a solid attempt at this, bringing the much-loved VF5 Final Showdown to PS4 with a fresh coat of paint. However, it fumbled in some key areas--particularly the netcode, which was a bizarre delay-based system in an era when fighting game developers were quickly and vocally embracing superior rollback systems. Now, with a new Virtua Fighter in active development and people talking about the series again, Sega has given us Virtua Fighter 5 REVO: another revision exclusively for PCs with the much-longed-for and player-demanded rollback netcode.
The rollback netcode is clearly the major selling point here, as much of the game is still built upon the foundation of VF5 Ultimate Showdown: The menu graphics, interface, and character models are largely the same, with a bit of extra polish and visual flair if you've got solid graphics hardware. But that's fine--those areas didn't need much improvement, so why fix what isn't broken?
So yes, it's (almost) all about the netcode this time around, and thankfully, Sega has nailed it… mostly. It's absolutely the best netcode a Virtua Fighter game has ever had, which makes it far more playable and appealing. In my sessions, I've had smooth matches with folks as far away as Japan, the Philippines, and the UK from my home in the US Pacific Northwest. Some bouts required adjusting the amount of rollback frames slightly, but many were just fine on default settings. When conditions are ideal, playing online is practically indistinguishable from playing against an opponent locally--aside from the occasional odd side effect of rollback, such as hearing a counter hit noise only to realize that no, the rollback kicked in and that wasn't actually a counter, whoops.
But that's when conditions are ideal. For an "old" fighting game, Virtua Fighter 5 REVO is surprisingly demanding on its default graphics settings. So if you get the game and just jump right into online play without fiddling around with the settings first, odds are your frame rate is going to start dipping under 60fps. That's a big problem, because when someone's frame rate is inconsistent, the netcode has to work extra hard, and it results in a choppy, stuttering experience for both sides, even if the other player's setup is running fine. A benchmark test before going online to make sure everyone has a consistent 60fps would do wonders in smoothing out the experience, but for now, the only thing that can be done is to ask players to spend time adjusting graphics settings from the get-go.
This release also marks the first major revision of the core gameplay in roughly 12 years, with attacks from older games added back in, the properties of many existing moves changed, and character's weights adjusted, among other things. These aren't really changes that make for major selling points, but they do affect the moment-to-moment fighting gameplay in ways that are both subtle and drastic: Characters like Jacky and Taka-Arashi, considered very strong in the previous version, have been knocked down a couple pegs with some of the (now less) lightweight characters like Pai feeling much improved. This is probably the most balanced this game has ever been. (It's worth noting that these gameplay changes have also been patched into VF5 Final Showdown.)
The fact that these small changes can shake things up so drastically is part of what makes Virtua Fighter 5, in all its incarnations, so great to play competitively. Learning Virtua Fighter is a long, challenging, and incredibly satisfying journey. VF's skill ceiling is extremely high: You can play for years and still discover new, exciting, and fascinating aspects of the combat each time you dive in. Combat is lightning-fast and involves constant decision-making, with almost every situation having numerous possible answers. It feels like learning a new language, with the fights themselves being your canvas for expression.
Of course, not everyone wants to play competitively, and unfortunately VF5 REVO still suffers from the dearth of single-player content that Ultimate Showdown did. There's still a severe lack of character customization options as well: The PS3 and Xbox 360 release of VF5 Final Showdown had a wealth of weird and wild items to deck characters out with for combat, and both REVO and VF5US have only a fraction of that--and much of it is currently locked behind DLC. There's always a chance there's more customization coming, however.
There's a tavern in the town of Troskowitz where the barmaids must be sick at the sight of me. I've been there twice, and both times been involved in messy brawls despite not tasting a lick of alcohol. The second of these fisticuffs was against a small group of Cuman deserters. They seemed nice enough, but I was still wary considering the Cumans are who killed my parents a few months back. I wasn't the only one, and after failing to ease the growing tension, I decided to side with the local townspeople when push came to shove.
Needless to say, we didn't put up much of a fight. Once the Cumans left, one of the locals implored me to track them down and deal with them once and for all. After eventually tracking them down, the sole Czech-speaking Cuman was so welcoming that I ended up getting drunk with them. I got so inebriated, in fact, that my night revolved around almost drowning, playing matchmaker for one of the soldiers, and then having a conversation with a talking dog that definitely wasn't real. This night of revelry would've been fine on any other evening, but I promised two new acquaintances that I'd be up bright and early to join them on a critical mission. Even after sleeping for seven hours, I was still completely plastered when I arose from my stupor. And let me tell you, fighting bandits with blurred vision, a swaying body, and a soundtrack of frequent farting isn't ideal.
To some, this last part might sound utterly infuriating. To me, and others like me, this is part of what makes Kingdom Come: Deliverance 2 utterly enticing. This is a game that sings when you're swept up in an entertaining series of events ignited by the consequences of your actions; where the game's quest design and emphasis on player choice wonderfully intertwine with its systems-driven sandbox to create a wholly immersive experience. While its 2018 predecessor was often disrupted by technical issues--which were further exacerbated by a frustrating save system--and clunky combat, Kingdom Come 2 refines and improves upon it in every respect. The obtuse nature of some of its RPG systems still won't click for everybody, but this is a confident sequel that builds on the foundations established by the original game, presenting a rich and sprawling adventure that effortlessly oscillates between medieval drama and slice-of-life hijinks in a world that feels distinctly alive.
Set in Bohemia during the early 15th century, Kingdom Come 2 picks up right where the first game left off. You're Henry of Skalitz, a humble blacksmith's son who's still trying to retrieve his murdered father's sword from the sniveling noble who stole it--and also happens to be working for the other side in the region's ongoing civil war. You begin the game as the handsomely equipped bodyguard of your pal, Sirs Hans Capon, but it doesn't take long before things go awry and you're left with little except for a few new scars. From here, Kingdom Come 2 is all about building yourself back up in whichever way you see fit. Will your Henry possess a silver tongue and scholarly knowledge? Will he be a skilled swordsman capable of defeating knights and bandits alike? A thief or a devout Christian? A drunken brawler or a master of apothecary? The most likely outcome is some confluence of all of the above, but the choice is entirely yours. Kingdom Come 2 is designed to accommodate the type of Henry you want to be, with the rest of Bohemia taking note and reacting in kind.
Every action you take feeds into the game's robust progression system, where you get better at each discipline the more often you do it. Studying specific books for a few hours can expedite the process, but your proficiency with a sword will primarily improve by wielding one in battle, either in life-or-death skirmishes or friendly training duels. There are four primary stats to level up--strength, agility, vitality, and speech--but also numerous skills to master, from survival and thievery to craftsmanship and horsemanship. As the level of your stats and skills rise, you gain access to myriad perks that improve your capabilities even further. This might be something simple, like dodges in combat costing 40% less stamina, or something more significant, such as the ability to stealthily knock people out by putting them in a chokehold. Some of these can only be learned by certain characters teaching you--such as an expert thief letting you in on the secrets of pickpocketing--and the same is true of combos for the various weapon types you can equip. This creates an intuitive and tactile sense of progression where improvement isn't predicated on simply watching numbers increase, but by learning and doing.
This is well demonstrated by the art of persuasion. You can solve even the most dire of situations by using Henry's gift of the gab to reason with the other party. Depending on who you're talking to, there are numerous ways to try resolving matters, such as peaceful means, issuing threats, lying, and so on. While speech is a stat you can level up like any other, it's also influenced by a number of additional factors, such as your appearance and reputation. If you're trying to come across as a hero and protector of the weak, you'll want to be wearing a suit of armor to convincingly pull it off. Wearing noble attire will accentuate your charisma--provided you're not covered in blood and filth. Mercifully, you can save up to three different outfits, quickly swapping between them like a chameleon, depending on the situation. Your attire can be advantageous or disadvantageous when it comes to stealth, too. Wearing dark clothes is preferable when sneaking around at night, while it's inadvisable to wear armor plates due to the rattle each footstep emits.
If you're caught breaking and entering, you'll be greeted by the stiff arm of the law that is Kingdom Come 2's fleshed-out crime system. You don't even have to be caught red-handed to land yourself in trouble. If a valuable item goes missing or someone is murdered in their sleep and you were spotted lurking around the area beforehand, NPCs are smart enough to deduce that you might've had something to do with it. You can attempt to talk your way out of these situations, opt to pay a fine, accept your punishment, or try to run away. Depending on the severity of your crime, there are four possible punishments on hand, from spending a few days in the pillory to being painfully branded on the side of the neck. Each form of punishment makes it challenging to converse with people until the effect wears off or you decide to embark on a pilgrimage to atone for your sins. These consequences are impactful and ensure that each picked lock and stint of trespassing is fraught with tension, particularly because Kingdom Come 2's contentious save system remains unchanged from the first game.
You can only save your progress by consuming a potion of Savior Schnapps or by sleeping in a bed you either own or have rented for the night. There are auto saves during quests, and you have the option to save and quit, but you're otherwise limited on when and how often you can save the game. Savior Schnapps can be found, bought, or brewed, but there's no way to save on the spot if you run out. The idea behind this is to eliminate save scumming, forcing you to live with the consequences of your actions. In the first game, however, the intent behind it was undermined by the prevalence of bugs and other technical issues, with some potentially wiping away hours of progress. Fortunately, Kingdom Come 2 is unlike its predecessor by being near-faultless in this regard. Playing on PC, I've not encountered any broken quests or game-breaking bugs in over 65 hours of playtime. I've witnessed a few visual hiccups, like characters clipping through tables or floating in the air, but these moments are relatively rare and constitute the extent of the game's technical issues, in my experience.
This is a confident sequel that builds on the foundations established by the original game, presenting a rich and sprawling adventure that effortlessly oscillates between medieval drama and slice-of-life hijinks in a world that feels distinctly alive
It's an impressive feat for such a large and complex game, especially one of such frequent beauty. The rolling hills of Bohemia stretch far beyond the horizon, with castles perched atop basalt rock formations casting long shadows onto fields of wheat and grazing cows. Verdant forests are thick with vegetation; the knee-high grass, flush with vibrant flowers like Marigold and Chamomile, tapers off as dense brush and towering trees take over. Sunlight occasionally peeks through the canopy, casting a luminous glow onto undulating streams of flowing water. Deer and rabbits scarper away, hunted by packs of howling wolves that shatter the hushed atmosphere of these medieval forests. Elsewhere, beyond the high walls of Kuttenberg, there exists a stark contrast to nature's tranquility. Within the hustle and bustle of the city, merchants hawk everything from gambesons to cabbages, with cart tracks perforating the muddy streets and leaving behind manure from the horses dragging them along. The city's denizens laugh over drinks in the city's various taverns, argue with one another outside tailors and armorers, and relax in steamy bathhouses after a day at the steelworks. It genuinely feels like you're peering into a window of the past, complemented by an exhaustive codex that details everything from the clothing and fashion of the time to various folk tales.
This meticulous eye for detail in the game's visuals, sound design, and adherence to history is just as present in its RPG systems. Combat has been streamlined but is no less complex. It's significantly more fluid and approachable compared to the first game, which makes sense story-wise, as you would expect Henry to have a better grasp of warfare. Combat uses a rosette that allows you to attack from either three or four directions, depending on the weapon type you're using. You can slash from the left, right, and from above, while swords, halberds, and the like are capable of stabbing. Blocking attacks is as simple as holding down a button--provided you have enough stamina--but if you time it correctly, you can execute a perfect block and interrupt your opponent's attack, allowing you to follow up with a riposte.
These are the basics of combat, but more formidable enemies require more expertise to defeat. Combos are a satisfying way to break through an opponent's tough defense, yet it's the Master strike that's often the most effective. This is an advanced technique you can learn later on, which utilizes the same timing as a perfect block. Rather than simply deflecting an incoming attack, however, Master strikes follow up with an unblockable attack in one seamless motion, exploiting any weaknesses in your opponent's armor. To execute a Master strike, you need to attack in the opposite direction of your opponent, challenging you to read their movements and react accordingly. If they attack from the left, you need to counterattack from the right. If they go for a stab, you need to respond with a strike from above. You also need to be wary of enemy soldiers countering your attacks with a Master strike of their own, creating this delicate dance as you trade ripostes and search for an opening.
Fighting multiple enemies at once is inherently chaotic by comparison, but emerging victorious is at least doable now. Kingdom Come 2's enemy AI isn't quite as aggressive as it was before, so you can avoid being overrun with clever positioning as you attempt to pick off enemies one by one. It still feels slightly awkward at times, but it helps that the lock-on system is much snappier. You can even flee from combat and live to fight another day, which wasn't a possibility in the first game. The one glaring negative is that successful attacks against unarmored enemies lack the impact you might expect, with little distinction between slicing flesh and colliding with steel-plated armor. Combat is still regularly thrilling, especially when you factor in the various strengths and weaknesses of each weapon type--like maces being capable of breaking through armor--but it isn't peerless.
Of course, while you can't avoid combat altogether, Kingdom Come 2 offers enough flexibility that you can frequently venture down other avenues of success. Quests are open-ended, giving you multiple ways to reach a conclusion, with even failure functioning as an integral part of the experience, occasionally forcing you to approach situations differently. Sometimes, this comes down to player choice. Other times, it depends on what's available to you. If you're trying to track down a missing person, you might discover their last known location and then attempt to follow a trail of blood or footprints in the mud. However, if you've recovered Henry's faithful canine companion, Mutt, you can give him a whiff of the missing person's clothing and he'll sniff them out.
Not only are your options varied, but so are the quests themselves. You'll pose as a sommelier to learn a secret wine recipe, compete in a tournament as part of a sword-fighting brotherhood, engage in a petty rivalry between two neighboring villages, investigate a murder and attempt to catch a serial killer, and so much more. These quests are engaging and uniformly well-written and acted, with even minor characters tending to be fairly fleshed out. Kingdom Come 2 is also genuinely funny, frequently injecting a playful irreverence into its historical venture. Side quests often weave into the main story and other side activities, too, rewarding you not just with material gains but with a narrative pay-off and tangible sense of place.
It's still slow-paced compared to its contemporaries, with some quests revolving around carrying sacks of grain and crafting weapons by gradually hammering heated steel on an anvil, but this is all part of its charm if you're someone who can appreciate placid moments in service of worldbuilding and immersion. The only time this approach infuriated me was in relation to how selling items works. Most merchants lack the money to pay for everything you want to flog, so you have to embark on multiple trips to various shops, moving items back and forth between your horse and your person to avoid over-encumbrance. This is a process you'll typically repeat every few hours, and I wish it weren't the case.
There has, at least, been a concerted effort to make the game more diverse. The first game was criticized for lacking representation outside of a handful of Turkic Cumans. In Kingdom Come 2, there's a Romani camp early on where you can pick up a few interesting quests pertaining to their beliefs and way of life. Various cultures are represented in Kuttenberg where you'll find plenty of Germans and an authentic Jewish quarter, with plot points delving into what it was like for Jews living in a predominantly Catholic country. Women are more autonomous as well, taking on vital roles that veer outside the lines of the patriarchy. There's still some sleaziness, but this is mainly reserved for those working in bathhouses, and even the women there are given slightly more characterization than the mere sexual objects they previously were.
It's not perfect, with the codex still needlessly describing the ideal woman of the time as "a thin, pale woman with long blonde hair, small rounded breasts, relatively narrow hips and a narrow waist." And while there is a character hailing from Mali, Kuttenberg is also conspicuous for its scarcity of people of color, despite being a major trading city. You would expect a small population of merchants from places like the Middle East and North Africa to exist within its market stalls, so they're notable for their absence.
While Kingdom Come: Deliverance 2 still stumbles in some aspects of its portrayal of 15th-century Bohemia, the shadow that lingered over the first game has mostly dissipated. This is a massively improved sequel in every other area, with better combat, quest design, and none of the technical issues that plagued the original. Not everyone will vibe with its slow-paced and oftentimes tedious approach, but those willing to meet it on its own terms will find a compelling open-world RPG that relishes in player agency and the consequences of your actions.
Sid Meier's Civilization VII is the newest mainline entry in Firaxis' long-running 4X strategy series, which is built on exploring, expanding, exploiting, and exterminating across procedurally generated maps. Taken on its own, each campaign remains a superbly engaging escapade across eras that will keep you playing for "one more turn" until you realize you're late for your sister's birthday party. Civilization VII is not just a game that you play to pass the time during weekends--the experience is compelling enough that it is the weekend, and maybe several weekdays of your life, too.
For Civilization VII, Firaxis has made some sweeping changes, most notably with how you progress through each historical period. Several of these new features are welcome, given that they address concerns from previous titles while also making campaigns more dynamic. However, a few design decisions are bound to be contentious, especially for longtime fans, since these mechanics tend to impact the player's control over certain outcomes.
One of the biggest changes in Civilization VII is how you choose leaders and nations separately. Gone are the days when picking Augustus Caesar or Napoleon meant automatically playing as Rome or France, respectively. Instead, leaders have a unique trait that defines their playstyle, and you can select a country independently to complement that playstyle.
For instance, Hatshepsut's trait--God's Wife of Amun--grants bonuses from imported resources and navigable rivers, while starting close to those same rivers, no less. Naturally, as Pharaoh, you would think that Egypt, which also grants extra production on rivers, would be the best civ choice for Hatshepsut. That might be true, but you could opt to try others, such as the Maya for their science bonuses or Maurya for their additional pantheon belief.
This concept is brilliant as it offers unparalleled flexibility in how you approach each playthrough. It also gives you the opportunity to strategize right from the get-go: Should you pick leaders and nations that complement one another well, even if it leads to a more rigid path, or should you go against the grain to come up with surprising combinations?
Likewise, there's an account-based progression system where you earn Mementos that can be equipped by leaders, giving them beneficial perks such as additional skill points or increased yields. (These can be optionally disabled in multiplayer.) One noteworthy inclusion is the Complaint to Ea-nāṣir--a tablet from ancient Babylon that's considered by the Guinness Book of World Records as the "oldest written customer complaint"--which provides an Economic attribute point for selected leaders.
The Memento system is certainly an interesting idea that rewards those who like to "main" a particular character. In my case, I played several matches as Jose Rizal, a national hero of the Philippines. Rizal's unique trait grants better rewards from narrative events--new quest chains for each leader, further enriching the roleplaying aspect as you learn more about these historical figures. Since he has a generalist playstyle, I was free to aim for conquest, scientific breakthroughs, or other means of advancement, tackling a plethora of missions and leveling him up as I went along.
The gameplay in Sid Meier's Civilization VII should feel both fresh and familiar to veterans of the series and other 4X strategy titles. At the start of a match in the Antiquity Age (which replaces the Ancient Era and Classical Era), you found your capital city and send Scouts to explore your surroundings. Scouts even have a new action that reveals nearby ruins that grant advantageous benefits, making the search for "goodie huts" as hassle-free as it gets.
From there, you send out your Settlers to create settlements as you expand across the continent, while also exploiting resource nodes around you. A notable change in Civilization VII compared to its predecessors is that newly founded settlements aren't cities but small towns with specializations, somewhat akin to colony planets in Stellaris. You can, eventually, turn towns into cities, which poses more questions that reinforce the game's strategic depth--do I want this large town to continue specializing in a particular function, or should I turn it into a city so I could be more hands-on with its development?
Growing your cities and towns in Civilization VII is now significantly more streamlined. You no longer need to worry about Worker units (they're completely gone). Instead, you just click on a tile and a specific improvement, be it a mine, plantation, farm, or camp, is plopped down instantly for free. You can even pair buildings with one another, creating a quarter (i.e. district) that provides bonuses, as well as build over them with more advanced facilities in later eras--yet another facet that should get yield min-maxers excited.
These strategic layers further extend to how you take down your opponents through the Commander system, which replaces Great Generals and Great Admirals. Now, Commanders can "pack" several units within them--perhaps a nod to the old "doomstacks" from earlier Civ games--and enact combined-arms attacks so multiple units can simultaneously strike the same target. Furthermore, units no longer gain skill points, but Commanders do, and their perks affect all those within their radius. Similarly to how you expand settlements, this streamlined process is excellent as it decreases the need to micromanage multiple units by the mid- and late-game stages.
Meanwhile, the revamped diplomacy system, where influence plays a bigger role, now includes treaties, espionage activities, war support, and actions related to independent peoples/city-states. For instance, if you're lagging behind an opponent, you can incite city-states to raid their lands, while you steal their technologies and cause their war-weariness to spiral out of control. Each of the core 4X gameplay mechanics shine, leading to exhilarating moments where you have to use all available tools to succeed.
The experience is made even more memorable by gorgeous visuals. The map itself comes to life thanks to breathtaking environments, thematic unit designs, and settlements that showcase your chosen nation's cultural aesthetics. For instance, the buildings in a Shawnee city look vastly different from those in settlements owned by the Mongolians, Ming Chinese, or Songhai. Civilization VII is the type of game that invites you to zoom in and marvel at the details of smaller settlements that have turned into bustling metropolises with distinct architecture and art.
As mentioned earlier, the biggest, and likely to be the most contentious change in Sid Meier's Civilization VII, is how you progress through each era. In previous games, each campaign is long, drawn-out, and contiguous--you were stuck with the same nation for the rest of your playthrough. Now, the game's eras--Antiquity, Exploration, and Modern--exist as completely separate time periods, each with its own civs, buildings, wonders, crisis events, and progression milestones. Perhaps most surprisingly, you're also required to switch to a different civ upon entering the Exploration Age and the Modern Age.
The concept of changing from one civ to the next in each era isn't completely new--it's akin to Humankind, a 4X strategy title from Amplitude Studios and Sega. This idea, both on paper and in practice, revitalizes the old Civilization formula, creating a more dynamic approach that encourages you to plan an overarching strategy for the rest of the campaign. Coincidentally, one of Humankind's pitfalls was that cultures lacked distinct properties in spite of a plethora of combinations. This drawback isn't as pronounced in Civilization VII, as each leader still has a unique identity and agenda, even if titles may seem a bit weird--e.g. Benjamin Franklin of the Normans or Himiko, High Shaman of Aksum.
In one of my campaigns as Xerxes I of Persia, I constructed monuments, altars, and ancient wonders like the Pyramids and Angkor Wat. I also had to contend with a crisis that involved ultra-aggressive independent peoples, akin to the "Raging Barbarians" setting from previous games. I then followed Legacy Paths, objectives that nudged me along a steady progression, such as gathering a bunch of codices (Scientific Legacy) and founding several settlements (Military Legacy).
Then, when the Antiquity Age gave way to the Exploration Age, I opted to benefit from the Abbasids' science boons. I constructed Machu Picchu and the Forbidden City, while replacing monuments and altars with universities and kilns. Along the way, I had to stem the devastating effects of another crisis, the Black Death, which wiped out many citizens of my empire. As these events happened all around me, I tackled objectives that included sending treasure fleets from distant lands (Economic Legacy) and spreading my Zoroastrian religion to gain relics (Cultural Legacy). All these tasks might sound overwhelming, but they made for unbelievably riveting campaigns, giving a glimpse into how empires rose, fell, adapted, and survived through the course of our shared human history.
Each feature in Civilization VII, taken on its own, is a treat for veterans like myself who want to see the series' continued evolution. Sadly, these also lead to some of the more egregious problems I've ever seen in a 4X title.
The first key issue pertains to forced civ-switching in relation to unlock conditions. Unlike in Humankind, where all period-specific cultures are available but it's a race to see which player picks them first, the options in Civilization VII have strict unlock requirements. Case in point: You can only play as the Abbasids if you picked Egypt or Persia beforehand, or if you were able to improve three camel resource nodes. As for Qing China, you can only get them if you chose Ming China earlier or have three tea plantations. Sometimes, you have no control over meeting these requirements or doing so just isn't feasible. After all, you might not have access to the correct resource or the locations aren't that optimal due to procedural generation on maps. That means you're out of luck and you need to decide based on a very limited selection pool. This is a confounding design decision given that leaders, nations, and Legacy Paths offer a lot of flexibility, and yet swapping to another civ, by far the most important choice you make in each campaign, counterintuitively follows rigid rules.
This is compounded by the fact that there are noticeable gaps and omissions among the currently available countries. A good example is how Rome and Greece are in the game, but Byzantium--the successor empire that combines the cultures of both--is missing, as are Great Britain (which will be part of an upcoming DLC), the Ottomans, the Aztecs, modern-day India, and any Scandinavian nation, for that matter. I was also perplexed when I saw that Jose Rizal of the Philippines unlocked Hawaii, of all countries, as there is no available option among Southeast Asian nations that had anti-colonial struggles. Vietnam isn't a civ but is represented by Trung Trac (leader), while Indonesia is represented by Majapahit (Exploration Age). Siam/Thailand is the only Modern Age Southeast Asian civ, though the country was never colonized by a European power.
Another factor to consider is that each era transition is basically a soft reset for all players. Once the progress meter hits 100% due to turn advancements or Legacy milestones, all construction projects, wonders, and related missions end abruptly--for everyone. One moment, you might be actively participating and enjoying tasks like sending out treasure fleets or spreading your religion far and wide, and the next, those mechanics are gone for good. Even all your units, regardless of where they might be, are removed from the map, only for period-specific variants to spawn randomly across your empire at the start of the next age. The concept itself would be the equivalent of Mehmed the Conqueror arriving at the gates of Constantinople, only to get magically teleported to Edirne because the Aztecs discovered the last holy relic that they needed.
This may have been implemented to curb the "snowballing" effect so everyone can be on a somewhat level playing field again. Still, this feels like being punished for doing too well, and is likely to impact aggressive and competitive players significantly.
Sadly, Civilization VII also feels incomplete. The Modern Age simply encompasses the industrial period up to Yuri Gagarin's space flight in the 1960s. The most advanced military units are tanks and fighter planes, and there's no Information/Contemporary Age whatsoever. Granted, Civilization campaigns tend to turn into unbearable slogs upon reaching later stages that many players don't even finish their games. Still, removing a historical period in its entirety doesn't feel like the best solution.
Furthermore, I've noticed a few issues with the user interface that confounded me initially. These include panels that don't explain how merchants are utilized, as well as the usage of civ-specific Great People on hexes--in a few instances, I had to mouse over several tiles in my cities since the correct spots weren't highlighted at all. Speaking of buildings, I've also seen how civ-specific facilities can't be constructed on certain tiles and, without the option to remove what I've built beforehand, I was unable to complete certain quarters.
Sid Meier's Civilization VII's "one more turn" aspect is still as engaging as ever, and I enjoyed huge portions of my playthroughs. Several facets, such as those related to diplomacy, espionage, crises, and combat address long-standing concerns. Legacy Paths and narrative events, meanwhile, offer rich and rewarding avenues for advancement through the ages. Unfortunately, as someone who's seen the heights that previous series entries have reached, the vanilla Civilization VII experience still needs a few tweaks, as it's held back by the aforementioned issues that occur during brief but crucial era transitions. Granted, the changes this series has undergone over the years--whether it's the square tiles or hexes debate, the "one unit per tile" drama, or city-planning with districts--have been for the better, eventually. The issues deemed controversial or cumbersome at the start paved the way for a better overall experience. As such, even if Civilization VII has a strong foundation, we might not see the game's full potential until much later in its lifespan. But, hey: At least the franchise has been consistent in that regard.
Eternal Strands weaves together a deeply intriguing scene from its earliest moments, stitching together a picture of a fantasy world built around the concept of magic emulating threads. It's a world I wanted to dive into from the jump, if only to uncover more of how it came to be and what the cultures of the different locations are like. And as much as the worldbuilding retains that wonder with incredible-looking environments that make for engaging play spaces for the physics-based magic system, the beat-for-beat details of Eternal Strands' story aren't nearly as rewarding to unravel.
Eternal Strands' story too often hits on familiar fantasy tropes, such as an inexplicable magical disaster that changed everything and a corrupting force that seemingly has no weakness and must be avoided at all costs. But the history that story is built on adds a semblance of life to the world, building memorable NPCs that you want to come back to again and again to talk about what in their life led them to where they are now, and painting a somber undertone to the world that begs to be uncovered through its detailed lore notes and optional collectibles.
I especially love how Eternal Strands packages aspects of its history so they're viewed through the art of weaving--not a typical choice for action-adventure games. Concepts like spells are recontextualized, transforming from arcane runes into fashion choices. You can largely avoid the historical exposition if you'd rather spend your time swinging a sword and spewing fire, but there's some great writing to uncover here for lore hounds.
The moment-to-moment of the present-day narrative is less compelling, however, standing out in stark contrast to the far more interesting historical events that led up to it. The main characters are memorable enough, and conversations with them are brought to life with great voice acting--Rebecca Hanssen as Casmyn is a notable highlight, giving a guarded edge to the soft words of the horned quartermaster that makes you want to get to know her more (and her romance arc is so sweet!).
You approach this cast as Brynn, the recently anointed scout who ventures out into the wilds beyond the safety of her party's camp to find resources, search dangerous locations, handle threats, and uncover the origin of a puzzling calamity. Her personality is shaped based on the options you choose during dialogue with other characters, allowing you to somewhat curate Brynn's always-positive disposition and plucky attitude to be more assertive, jovial, or stoic, and these choices are reflected in how the other characters regard her, with the most substantial effect being the option to romance some of them.
The most interesting aspect of Eternal Strands is its magic system. Brynn can command the forces of gravity, ice, and fire, and both the world and enemies within it react to how you use these powers. At their simplest, they allow Brynn to throw, freeze, and ignite enemies, but they can also be used more strategically to both fight and explore in new ways. Brynn's gravity powers can be used to propel herself skyward, for example, or pick up a dropped sword to violently skewer an enemy, or she can use ice to freeze the air and create a temporary bridge to cross a gap or stitch an invisible enemy to the ground to make them easier to hit. In the same respect, Brynn's magic can affect the world as you imagine it would--fire magic can melt parts of the world covered in frost, ice magic can freeze water, and gravity magic can stack pretty much anything that isn't nailed down.
This magic system is at its best when Brynn contends with the colossal threats that patrol each environment, ranging from fire-breathing dragons to lumbering constructs. These powerful, boss-like enemies must be strategically handled, often having weak points that you need to clamber up the monsters' bodies to reach. I only defeated a fire-breathing drake after I managed to climb up its leg onto its back and started swinging Brynn's sword at the one place its flaming breath could not reach, using ice magic to freeze its wings in place when it decided to take off so that I could send it back to earth. And I managed to defeat one of the armored constructs by freezing its foot to the ground, using gravity magic to rip away the plate armor around its torso, and then using Brynn's gravity magic on herself to fling her upwards to instantly get to the revealed weak point.
Optional pieces of lore on these titanic monsters can be uncovered while exploring the world, but even if you do put in the legwork to better understand how these monsters might behave or be more easily defeated ahead of time, there's still a need to react to their behavior and come up with new plans on the fly to take them down. There's a fulfilling sense of victory to taking these behemoths down, and intuiting a new plant of attack in the moment and seeing my labors result in success was a consistent source of delight. These often long hunts are worth the effort too, as each successful kill results in a small explosion of colorful high-level materials that you can use to craft better gear and weapons, as well as the necessary components to weave new spells or upgrade your existing abilities.
Fights against the normal wildlife or human-sized constructs aren't nearly as rewarding. Beyond her magic, Brynn also has a sword, shield, and bow, and she can unlock a two-handed greatsword--these tools can take care of the smaller threats easily with a little button mashing. About three hours into Eternal Strands, I killed a dragon, used the harvested materials to craft a bow that could deal fire damage, and pretty much managed to avoid combat against normal enemies after that by burning everything alive from a distance. It made traversing through most of each environment trivial, as I could snipe most enemies before Brynn got close enough for anything to register her presence. Only the larger-than-life monsters continued to pose any sort of challenge necessitating me to think about survival and how to fight.
Each locale that Brynn visits is beautifully realized, from stoic and empty cities to vibrant and noisy jungles. A few of the environments afford Brynn the chance to use her magic--specifically gravity and ice--to navigate them vertically, leaping between rooftops or towers and going off the beaten path to discover a secret or two. Rarely, however, are these places difficult to navigate, even when the random weather system introduces a danger like toxic miasma. They're built in a largely linear fashion, funneling Brynn from one side to the other to reach her next objective, and although there are times when the scout has multiple missions active at once, it never feels like you're actually getting a chance to explore these spaces. For a game that fashions its protagonist as a much-needed scout paving the way forward, Brynn spends an awful lot of Eternal Strands following the directives of others and being told where she can go as soon as she unlocks a new area to explore. For as much as Eternal Strands frees you to practice your agency in taking down the colossal monsters that dot its dangerous world, it limits you in almost every regard.
Eternal Strands is a straightforward action-adventure game. The physics-based magic system adds a lot of fun and satisfyingly strategic energy to Brynn's regular run-ins with colossal enemies, but smaller threats rarely rise above being a tedious hindrance. And although the history of the world is interesting to uncover and conversations with Brynn's party members a regularly lively delight, the actual moment-to-moment story beats don't feel all that compelling. It's a shame that Eternal Strands' lows drag parts of its experience down, because the narrative and gameplay have clear highs that would excel in a game that wasn't holding them back.
Not every game needs to be more like IO Interactive's Hitman, but some games would benefit from adopting more of that incredible series' strong points. This is something Rebellion seemed to figure out around the time of Sniper Elite 3 back in 2014, when the series ditched linear levels set in tight, wartorn streets in favor of a much deeper, wider tour of duty, with each map allowing for player choice in how they navigate the world and complete missions. The series has even gone so far as to create some absurd, Agent 47-like situations in which you can assassinate Nazis. Sniper Elite: Resistance reintroduces that tried-and-true formula for the fourth time in 11 years, and though it's still enjoyable, I can't help but notice how this campaign through the French countryside elicits such a strong sense of deja vu.
Sniper Elite is a third-person shooter set during World War II, and like other games in the series, it can be played in first-person when you're aiming. The series has made a name for itself on a deep ballistic physics model that accounts for wind, bullet drop, and positioning, as well as its cherry on top: the X-ray killcam. This feature shows you, in slow-motion, how each bullet shreds Nazis in grotesque detail, inside and out. Like in other Sniper Elite games, a well-placed bullet can shoot their eyes out, explode their hearts, or even obliterate their testicles, among other special displays of sharpshooting.
Like its predecessors, the game is a fun and reliable shooter when it comes to sniping mechanics, though I've grown weary of the killcam. These days, I more often skip the killcam, or at least adjust my settings to see fewer headhunting highlight reels. I get it by now; it's neat tech, but they add up over the course of a mission, which already tend to take me about two hours each, because I'm much more interested in stealthily completing my missions than watching the highlight reels of long-range vivisections.
Sniper Elite: Resistance shifts the focus from the usual series protagonist, Karl Fairburne, to a character formerly designated as Player 2 in the game's co-op campaign, Harry Hawker. A British soldier, Hawker's missions task him with performing the same type of feats for which Fairburne has long earned medals: infiltrating crowded Nazi strongholds, blowing up a few subs, trucks, or missile command centers, and displacing the brain matter of every fascist he encounters along the way.
With fascism newly fashionable again in some parts of the world, it would seem cathartic to simulate such vivid Nazi destruction, and yet, Sniper Elite has never cared to paint its villains as more than The Bad Guys, the way some games may with zombies or aliens. They feel comic-booky, and ultimately that's okay--albeit unmoving--as the story has never been much of the point in these games anyway.
Each mission opens with a main objective, but you'll find optional objectives as you explore, a high-value target who can often be killed creatively--like planting a rat-shaped bomb in the kitchen for him to shoot and detonate--and other helpful secrets, like weapon workbenches and alternate starting locations for revisited missions. No Sniper Elite protagonist is all that durable, so while you could maybe sprint across each sprawling map and wipe out your to-do list in under 20 minutes if you really wanted to, I can't imagine it would be much fun or easy--in the open, the heroes die quickly. Instead, a methodical, stealthy approach is clearly how the game hopes you'll play it, though it tries to give you the tools to go loud when you need to, as well.
That's a place Resistance struggles, however, and it's a familiar struggle. Outside of sniping, gunplay isn't great. Aiming around cover is often janky, with Hawker unreliably sticking to a wall. Aiming in first-person with guns like SMGs and pistols also feels slow and unwieldy, though the reticle in third-person is pretty punishing, too, rarely narrowing in a way that promises your shots will be on target. Even the act of hurdling some waist-high objects, like railings or fences, proves to be consistent only in how inconsistent it is. Some walls I could scale easily, while others that would seem to be of a similar or identical height didn't prompt me to leap over them. These aspects wind up leaving me untrusting of the world at times. If all hell breaks loose, I'd like to be able to trust a nearby cover object, but in Resistance, like in all of these games, that's not always the case.
In part, Rebellion has put itself in a tricky spot. Clearly, the team is smaller and dealing with fewer resources than many games in the shooter space, and yet each installment looks pretty good and plays well enough that it can be easy to view the team as competing in the AAA space even though it truly isn't. Traditionally, I've forgiven some of the jank and lack of polish for this reason. Rebellion is a team already overachieving by some measure, but to release so many sequels that feel so similar to each other at this point, it starts to feel more like an issue we see in the sports gaming world. A lack of game-to-game innovation jumps off the screen.
This is most egregiously depicted in Resistance's skill tree, which is identical to Sniper Elite 5's (SE5) skill tree. It's not just galling to run back the same skills as before for players to unlock; it suffers doubly because that skill tree wasn't so exciting to begin with. Many of its skills I have no use for, like being able to maintain my heart rate better during sprinting, and the tree also lacks some abilities I find obviously needed, such as allowing for a faster crouch-walking speed. Anyone who has played a few of these games and has an introductory grasp on in-game progression systems would likely have a few neat ideas that could've populated Resistance's skill tree. Perhaps they would've even tried and failed to one-up SE5's skill tree, which would've been disappointing, but worse is to re-use the one that was already there.
Some similar design decisions show up elsewhere, too, such as Missions 1 and 4 of the campaign being set on the same map, though Mission 4 does at least give you more space to explore that map. Later in the campaign, a mission re-uses many of the same assets and the basic setting as an early mission in SE5, to the extent that I had to look up whether it was set on the same exact map. (It isn't.) It's said the story is set in France because Hawker's saga runs concurrently with Fairburne's SE5 adventure elsewhere in the nation, but with choices like these on display, it starts to feel like Resistance, right down to how its name drops the use of numerics, is a sizable standalone expansion tied to SE5 rather than a sequel.
To the team's credit, and partly what's creating its image of a much more resource-heavy studio, there's a lot to do outside the solo campaign. Like most of these games, Resistance's campaign can be played entirely in two-player co-op, including cross-play lobbies. Not everything is better in co-op, but many games are, and this is one of them, provided you find a teammate with the same playstyle as you. The game also offers an Invasion mode akin to Deathloop or Dark Souls, in which you can jump into another player's live campaign and hunt them down as an adversary.
This is the game's most thrilling mode of all, as the consequences of each decision by either player become much more magnified. Making noise, alerting enemies, or missing shots will bring a pained grimace to your face when you're trying to eliminate or outlast your adversary. Frankly, this series has not received enough credit for how cool this mode is. The huge maps, with their many different viable routes and strategies to employ, make this feel like the game's secret weapon. Even as the campaign feels too familiar at times, Invasion mode invigorates it with greater appeal. Like always, if you hate the idea of being invaded, you can also just turn this feature off, or leave it open only to friends.
Sniper Elite also includes team-based PvP modes and wave-based PvE modes. I'd actually just begun playing these in SE5 last month, so though I'm not a long-time player, I have come to find, including in Resistance, that there's actually a bit more magic here, too. The best of the modes is No Cross, which splits each map asymmetrically down the middle, inviting players into a snipers-versus-snipers headshot tournament where no one can traverse the gap to the other side.
Like Invasion, this mode is tense and exciting. Each sightline has counters, and the glint of your scope is a betrayer that promises no one camps for long before losing their helmet and all of its squishy contents. It reminds me of an era a few generations ago when shooters were trying to find their niche beyond simply doing what Call of Duty was doing. Not all of those attempts were successes, and Resistance's PvP/PvE modes don't seem likely to topple the genre's titans anytime soon, but for players who appreciate the game's physics and combat, you can spend many hours in Resistance's peripheral modes and get more enjoyment out of it than you might in the solo story mode, where returns are noticeably diminishing if you've frequented this series to date.
All of these side attractions to the single-player campaign end up being stronger reasons to experience Sniper Elite: Resistance. Oddly, the one thing the game adds to its suite of modes is Propaganda missions, which I found to be quite forgettable. Unlocked by finding propaganda posters in the campaign, these seven bonus missions return you to maps from the story with new stealth, sniping, or open-combat challenges to perform in a timed environment. These feel totally skippable unless you and some buddies are into bragging rights and want to compete for the top scores. Whereas Invasion mode is an under-heralded destination mode for this series, I would be unsurprised and even content if Propaganda missions are one-and-done.
I experienced some bugs in my time with the game, such as invisible walls that shouldn't have been there and some jank at the top of staircases that would catch me or NPCs if we were crouch-walking. A patch deployed before the game's launch seems to have cleared up most of these issues, so though they got in my way at times, they shouldn't get in yours much or at all. This patch didn't address my issues with inconsistent wall grabs and hurdles, but then neither did the last three games, so that speaks more to my hope for the series' future, not just my feelings on Resistance itself.
In the end, Sniper Elite: Resistance is a fun game that you'll probably enjoy if you liked the last few, but you'll likely enjoy it even more if you're new to the series. Some of its signature moves, like the gruesome killcam and the solid sniping mechanics, are getting a bit stale here as the series has mostly stopped innovating across consecutive sequels.
While the campaign is fun but often too familiar, Resistance shines most of all in some of the game's secondary modes, particularly Invasion and No Cross PvP. Of course, bringing a buddy along to play the story in co-op smooths over some of its roughness, too. I do want to play more of this series, but I'm hopeful the next one takes a bigger leap forward and cleans up some of the long-present jank. Like the difference between the second and third games in the series, it's only going to be the next big step for Sniper Elite if the team finally innovates on what existed before. Otherwise, it's just sparkling familiarity.
Marvel Rivals has come for the hero-shooter crown, and it's hard to argue that it doesn't have a legitimate claim to the throne. It has a big roster of heroes with a ton of variety across them, no role queue, and 6v6, all of which are important to a great hero shooter. Although it lifts more than a few of Overwatch's ideas, it is actively targeting and addressing some of the biggest complaints players have about Blizzard's shooter. Marvel Rivals expands on familiar ideas in smart ways and has a visually striking and distinct art style. Add in that it's a fun multiplayer experience and it makes it far more than just another also-ran hero shooter clone.
Opting for 6v6 and a third-person camera view, Marvel Rivals has a vast variety of playstyles across its launch roster. Offering everything from simple shooting-focused heroes like Punisher to complex melee heroes like Spider-Man, all the while making it feel cohesive. Although it will undoubtedly be chaotic for players trying a hero shooter like this for the first time, there are a variety of heroes that make picking up the game simple and an impressive roster of alternative picks that can gradually increase complexity.
It does have limited main game modes at launch, with only Domination, which involves fighting over a control point; Convoy, where a team escorts a payload; and Convergence, which is a combination of the two. These are split across a variety of maps taken from the Marvel multiverse, with locations like Tokyo 2099, Yggsgard, and the Intergalactic Empire of Wakanda. These different locations provide a ton of environmental variety, with the pristine look of Asgard contrasted with the dense buildings of Tokyo 2099. While the visual styles don't change the flow of the game, the map layouts do. For example, both Tokyo 2099 and Klyntar have hybrid maps--where the attacking team must capture a control point, which unlocks a payload to push--but Tokyo 2099 has multiple buildings blocking the defenders' line of sight, while on Klyntar the area from spawn to the point is much more open, promoting more long-range hero options. It can become visually stale, but more importantly, having fewer modes means that your team's strategies don't shift as much from match to match, which can result in them blending together because each individual match doesn't feel unique, aside from the team compositions.
What helps keep things fresh is the massive roster of 33 characters, which can be combined in numerous ways thanks to a lack of role queue. A role queue would lock players into one of the three classes (Duelist, Vanguard, and Strategist), forcing a perfect 2-2-2 composition. Across numerous quick play and competitive matches, however, there is usually a ton of variety in the team compositions, many of which can be viable: Dropping a Vanguard to have a third Duelist can be as effective as running three Strategists with only one Duelist. Teaming up Magik, Spider-Man, and Black Panther to overwhelm the enemy with close-range characters is a strategy that not only promotes but rewards aggressiveness, giving a much different match feel than just sitting back with two tanks, and wouldn't be possible with forced roles. Sure, it leads to the occasional match where your team runs all Duelists and gets rolled because of it, but the strategy it offers in exchange is worth the trade off.
Many of these heroes do feel like they were pulled straight out of Overwatch, even if they are mash-ups, like Starlord taking abilities from Reaper and Tracer. Hawkeye's and Black Widow's abilities share a resemblance to Hanzo and Widowmaker from Overwatch. Luna Snow has a similar ultimate to Zenyatta, while Mantis can heal and buff enemies in a similar fashion to how Zenyatta heals by placing orbs that heal over time. But other characters, particularly the melee-focused ones, are more original. Magik, Iron Fist, and Spider-Man, for example, feel like new creations for Marvel Rivals. The same goes for many of the Vanguard heroes like Groot, who can build a variety of walls to defend his teammates and block entrances. These walls aren't time-limited like Mei's from Overwatch, but instead will stay up until destroyed or if Groot chooses to move them. Destroying the walls gives away your position to the enemy group, creating a more dynamic power than just a temporary wall. There are enough new ideas to keep Marvel Rivals from entering ripoff territory, but there is certainly a sense of deja vu at times.
The dedication to bringing comic superpowers to Marvel Rivals while still creating a unique shooter has also led to some interesting characters. While there is no shortage of straightforward shooting heroes, like Hela, Hawkeye, and Punisher, the abundance of melee-only characters adds a more MOBA-like feel to matches. Ability combos for characters like Spider-Man can be challenging to master, as you're required to land four different abilities in a short period of time to be effective. There's enough depth to many heroes to be a challenge for skilled players, and mastering the usage of abilities is satisfying. The game balance favors the more aggressive characters at the moment, but the number of heroes who feel unplayable in competitive modes is incredibly low, which is surprising for a game with such a large roster. That high number of viable characters helps to keep each match varied. The biggest complaint here is that there are a few too many Strategist ultimates that do so much healing that anything other than an ultimate from the other team is completely ineffective; there are definitely some damage sponges that can be in play at times.
Marvel Rivals expands on familiar ideas in smart ways and has a visually striking and distinct art style ... add in that it's a fun multiplayer experience and it makes it far more than just another also-ran hero shooter clone
Another aspect of team building are the team-ups, which grant extra abilities if certain characters are on the same team. Some are simple, like Adam Warlock granting certain Guardians of the Galaxy his passive ability to resurrect after dying, but some grant more interesting abilities. Psylocke and Black Panther can use Magik's portals, letting them rewind a few seconds to a previous location, granting bonus health, which function like temporary shields. This adds another layer to their abilities and provides a simple way to identify good team compositions without needing to spend hours testing which heroes pair well together on a more granular level. The majority of these team-ups provide small bonuses, so you aren't forced to play around them either.
The third-person gameplay feels precise and responsive, with abilities and projectiles behaving exactly how you want them to and being satisfying because of this. Abilities feel like they are constantly available to use, without resulting in full on ability spam, letting you feel like you are doing something engaging beyond just shooting at your opponents. Maps offer multiple paths to flank or get the high ground as well, letting you try a new approach each fight. At the same time, the maps don't offer so many paths that it becomes too much to manage. Some heroes like Black Panther and Spider-Man zip around the battlefield, and it can feel like you're fighting the camera a bit to keep track of them, but this issue does dissipate as you learn more about the flow of the game. Once you understand exactly what these characters can do and how far their movement takes them, it becomes easier to deal with their mobility. The gameplay is fast-paced and chaotic, but it does have strong readability thanks to the audio and visual designs.
Marvel Rivals' art style is striking, with paint-like strokes on the characters combined with a slight cel-shading to create a distinct look that evokes comic books without being gimmicky. Not only does it make the game look great, but this kind of art style is necessary for Marvel Rivals to be playable. With 12 players frequently fighting each other, the screen can get busy, potentially making it difficult to identify and react to abilities, but the aesthetic maintains a level of clarity that is necessary. It also avoids the pitfalls of feeling like it's a knockoff of the MCU, channeling a variety of comic looks and lore, while adding its own twists to designs to make it feel unique.
With the distinct look and animations for each character, you can quickly identify who you are looking at and what abilities they are using. Even with characters that have similar physical builds like Luna Snow, Dagger, and Mantis, each has distinct enough coloring and animations to make them easily identifiable at a glance. The recognizability of animations and silhouettes are just as important because of skins--which can alter how characters look slightly--especially as more elaborate and colorful skins are added in the future.
The audio design is a bit messier, although it does lean more on functionality than artistry. Characters are regularly shouting, calling out enemies or specific abilities, like Moon Knight placing an Ankh to ricochet attacks off of. These callouts make Marvel Rivals more manageable to play, especially with how powerful ultimate attacks are, but can become overwhelmingly noisy. Each character has a very loud shout for their ultimate, which is different depending on if they are friend or foe, allowing you to quickly react when these happen. It can be obnoxious sometimes, like Winter Soldier repeatedly shouting again on each ultimate retrigger, which can happen within seconds of each other, but it is important for managing the battlefield. Beyond shouting, many of the weapons and abilities have distinct sounds, reducing the amount of time you need to identify and react to an attack, which makes for a more competitive shooter.
With only two key differences, Marvel Rivals' competitive mode doesn't feel too different from quick play. First, payload maps have both teams play offense and defense, which is necessary for a fair match. Second, matches at Diamond rank and above allow for two to four heroes to be banned. While this is nice to limit some of the more powerful heroes, bans do narrow some of the strategy that makes Marvel Rivals so engaging. If you were locked into your pick for the whole match it might make more sense, but since you can swap at any time, it removes some necessary counter-picks that allow you to shift the momentum of a match. Instead of placements, you start at Bronze and have to work your way up, which does result in some bizarre matches in the lower ranks since players of all skill levels might be there depending on how much they have played.
Marvel Rivals is free-to-play, meaning there are microtransactions, but its monetization is fairly standard in terms of pricing. All heroes are free, including future ones, and the only things to buy are cosmetics. Battle passes don't expire, and while Marvel Rivals isn't the first game to offer this, it is an uncommon but welcome practice. Knowing you won't miss out on cosmetics in a battle pass you already paid for just because you don't have time to play is a great quality-of-life feature. Cosmetics are pricey but not out of line with what's seen in many other games, with legendaries coming in around $23 and epics coming in around $18. One upside is that, at least so far, Marvel Rivals is fairly selective with which skins are deemed legendary, with some surprisingly cool skins getting priced at the epic tier. The battle pass costs $10 and includes 10 skins and some premium currency, in addition to smaller cosmetics like sprays, MVP intros, and name plates making it a pretty great offer overall.
Overall, Marvel Rivals feels like the first hero shooter since Overwatch launched in 2015 to fully capture the magic of the genre. It offers a ton of heroes to play with, a great visual style, and a focus on making the game fun for everyone. While it does lift directly from Overwatch, its more original ideas make it feel fresh in the space. Marvel Rivals is a great multiplayer shooter in its early days, and if it can deliver on future updates, it could remain one for years to come.
Donkey Kong has always been the more brutal, off-putting relative to the affable, approachable Mario brothers. Both Donkey Kong Country and the Super Marios are classic side-scrolling platformers at their core, but DKC has been known less for joyful leaping and more for clenching your jaw. Now as the Nintendo Switch approaches its eighth year and Nintendo is increasingly reaching into its back catalog for ports, DKC Returns is back with a package that combines all the features of the Wii and 3DS versions--including some assists and visual enhancements--but still feels tough-as-nails in a way that could push away more casual platformer fans.
DKC Returns HD does retain the tweaks made to the 2013 3DS port, including a Modern mode (originally called New mode in the 3DS version) with additional items in Cranky's shop and an extra pip of health. The items in Cranky's shop are especially tuned to let you selectively tweak the difficulty, since the banana coins currency are so plentiful that you'll almost always have enough to spare on an item or two. Those items range from help finding collectible puzzle pieces to temporary invincibility. You can always opt for the original mode to play with the original Wii difficulty, if that's more your flavor. And it does look nicely polished on Switch, especially on the OLED screen. That said, the character models look relatively simplistic compared to Tropical Freeze, a 2014 Wii U game that was already ported to Switch in 2018.
The Modern mode is meant to sand off the edges of the notoriously punishing game and make it more approachable, but make no mistake: This is still a brutally difficult game. Even with three hearts instead of the original two, it's very easy to lose multiple lives (or near the end, tens of lives) in a single stage as you learn its rhythms and assorted traps. And the difficulty in DKC Returns is true to its roots, which centers heavily on memorization. The game frequently introduces threats too quickly to react to the first time, and DK himself feels stiff and heavy compared to the acrobatic Mario. Trickier stages will even give the appearance of one type of obstacle and then frustratingly punish you for reacting to the fake-out.
The level design is where DKC Returns stands out the most, with a wide variety of biomes that introduce unique mechanics and visual flourishes that may only be used once or twice. One stage might have you riding the rails while the next could put you in silhouette with only DK's bright red tie as a splash of color. One of my favorites is set against a massive storm creating continuous tsunamis, making each moment a mad dash to the next wall that will protect you. And the stages make excellent use of the space to hide secrets, usually tied to pulling off an extra-stylish move. You can simply jump on an enemy, for example, but if you hit A at the perfect time, you'll get a boost and jump higher into a hidden platform that leads to a bonus area. Those nooks and crannies create lots of replay value if you want to uncover everything DKC Returns has to offer.
If you die multiple times in a stage, a helpful pig will appear to offer you the Super Guide, but I'm not sure I understand the point of it. As the prompt notes, it doesn't actually count towards completion, so you can't just tag in the AI assistant to finish a level for you. It also pointedly doesn't even attempt to grab collectibles, even when they're generally on the path it's already using. That means it doesn't show you the locations of secrets, so you can't use it to scope out an optimal path to grab all the optional K-O-N-G letters or puzzle pieces. It essentially just shows you how to get through a stage, and even though it gives you a pretty good rundown, simply being shown the layout still leaves you to execute with perfect precision.
Like any platformer, the difficulty has peaks and valleys, and some stages you can nail on the first run. It's a very satisfying feeling, especially when you suddenly find yourself catching your breath upon reaching the end goal. Difficulty spikes can sneak up on you, though, and it's sometimes hard to tell if a stage will be unusually difficult until after you've spent several lives reaching a checkpoint. At that point, it's a tough choice between quitting to buy some helpful items from Cranky's shop or brute-forcing your way through the rest of the stage.
Even if you do make a pit stop at his shop, Cranky's items take some trial and error to learn their intricacies. For example, despite the name, the invincibility item doesn't actually make you invincible--you're still susceptible to spikes, crashes, and falls. The invincibility item effectively just adds five more pips to your health and gives DK a golden sheen, and once those are spent you go back to your regular lifebar. Graciously, this effect lasts through multiple lives, so if you lose one pip during a stage you'll start again with four. But the game doesn't explain that. If you want to be truly invincible, you'll need to own several items, stacking them to have multiple effects at once. Any that you don't use get returned to you so you're not wasting resources experimenting, alleviating some of the irritation of figuring out which items you need to stack to get the effect you want.
While most of the mechanics feels appropriately in-line with modern platformers, one unwelcome holdover from other DKC games confusingly continues to persist. One button is mapped to both the roll and a ground-pound, as was the case in Tropical Freeze, with the only difference being whether you're moving in a direction when you press it. Functionally, that means you need to make sure you're standing absolutely still to ground pound, or you'll just roll off in a direction instead. I died several times trying to ground-pound a button and instead rolling right off a ledge, and at least once trying to roll out of the way of an obstacle and ground-pounding instead.
But DK's weighty controls help to accentuate one of the game's best power-ups, Diddy Kong. Picking up a Diddy barrel effectively doubles your health bar and gives you the power to glide with Diddy's rocket pack, and he leaves when you lose his share of hearts. It's enough to dramatically alter the dynamic of the game, which makes it that much more punishing when you lose him. This is especially noticeable in some boss fights, including the final boss, when you can enter the battle with Diddy, lose him on the first life, and then have to go without Diddy for every subsequent attempt. It creates a certain snowball effect--if you were already struggling with the relatively maneuverable Diddy in tow, it only gets harder when he's gone.
The classic DK-and-Diddy buddy dynamic is the clearest example of referencing the original Donkey Kong Country, especially since this one doesn't include fellow companion characters Dixie or Kiddy Kong. Rambi the rhino makes an appearance in some stages, but the game graciously forgoes underwater stages and so there isn't any room for Engarde the swordfish. And the villains of the game, a band of evil living totems, is a far cry from the iconic status of the stoutly crocodile King K. Rool.
All that is to say, Donkey Kong Country Returns is a throwback through and through. It's a little less novel than it was when it first appeared on Wii and was the first DKC game in more than a decade, and at this point a lot of its refinements and clever level ideas have been surpassed by the later Tropical Freeze. It's the best way to play DKC Returns and to revisit some truly top-class level design, though. The visual overhaul looks nice on modern displays and it encompasses the improvements made to the 3DS port. Just be warned: Given the sharp and sometimes frustrating difficulty spikes, only the most dedicated ape enthusiasts need apply.
When it comes down to it, the essence of Dynasty Warriors' longevity is simple: Cleaving through hundreds of enemies like a hot knife through butter feels really good. It's the ultimate power fantasy, with each swing of your weapon sending bodies careening through the air in every conceivable direction as the KO counter ticks up into the thousands. For almost 25 years, this basic formula has remained virtually unchanged, lending the series a fervent albeit niche following. Dynasty Warriors 9 attempted to evolve the formula, but the shift to a lifeless open world was a misstep that didn't mesh with the series' core appeal. Dynasty Warriors: Origins, as the name implies, sees Omega Force returning to its roots, emphasizing the large-scale, hack-and-slash action Dynasty Warriors is known for while implementing a number of clever new additions that achieve what Dynasty Warriors 9 failed to.
If you're unfamiliar with the long-running series, Dynasty Warriors is based on Luo Guanzhong's 14th-century novel, Romance of the Three Kingdoms--and the ancient history it's based on--loosely adapting the classic Chinese novel by taking some absurd creative liberties along the way. While previous games in the series have typically covered the bulk of the Three Kingdoms period from 184 AD to 280 AD, Origins tightly focuses on the early parts of the story, beginning with the rise of the Yellow Turban Rebellion and culminating in the decisive Battle of Chibi. Unlike the rest of the series, the story is also told from the perspective of an amnesiac warrior who's meeting legendary figures like Guan Yu, Dong Zhuo, and the fearsome Lü Bu for the first time. This setup is clearly designed with newcomers in mind, making the series' enduring legacy and myriad beloved characters much more palatable for new players to dive into for the first time.
Still, that doesn't mean returning players will be left wanting. By focusing on the early events of the Three Kingdoms' tapestry, Omega Force has opted to delve into the time period in greater detail than before, with a renewed emphasis on storytelling and character development. Even minor figures are more fleshed out, while pivotal moments are given the gravitas they deserve. This is somewhat of a double-edged sword, however. The writing is generally solid, with defined, charming, and likable characters engaging in moral quandaries and battles of both wit and brawn, but the overabundance of cutscenes sometimes works to its detriment. Too many conversations simply feel derivative, either repeating plot points or adding little of substance to the narrative and your understanding of its ensemble cast of characters. This disrupts the game's pacing, leading to more than a few occasions where you're forced to wait impatiently for the next battle to arrive as you cycle through one superfluous conversation after another.
Origins' secondary story--which revolves around its amnesiac hero slowly regaining his memories--is also much weaker than the Three Kingdoms plotline, dealing in bland cliches and predictable twists. It's disappointing, but this pivot to a lone protagonist has a significantly greater impact on Origins' hack-and-slash action than its narrative quality. Dynasty Warriors is known for featuring a massive roster of playable characters, with the previous game in the series totaling a whopping 94. By comparison, Origins features a single character and just nine playable companions, each of whom functions as a powerful support hero you can temporarily take control of before switching back to the amnesiac hero. It's a risky shift for the series that may feel like a dramatic step back for veteran fans, but it's a change that becomes easier to accept once you're in the thick of the action.
Out on the battlefield, Origins feels like an authentic Dynasty Warriors experience, just on a much grander scale than ever before. Thousands of characters regularly fill the screen, with flaming arrows raining down from the sky and generals engaging in flashy duels amidst the chaos unfolding all around them. It's a pure spectacle of histrionic warfare, with you in the middle, slicing through hundreds of peons as though they were blades of grass. In true Dynasty Warriors fashion, it's methodical and repetitive in a way that will appeal to a specific type of player, achieving a strange sort of zen as entire armies crumble before you.
The moment-to-moment action and mission design still lack some variety, especially now that the roster has been decimated, but that's always been part of the appeal. That's not to say it isn't still disappointing, since the missions that break away from the formula are its most interesting. But combat is so tightly designed, from the responsiveness of the controls to the satisfaction that follows each swing and overhead slash of your weapon, that your 100,000th kill is still just as fulfilling as your 1,000th was. It's not for everyone, and history proves how divisive the Dynasty Warriors formula is, but Origins also incorporates a number of elements from modern action games in an attempt to evolve the series and broaden its appeal.
As you're roaming the battlefield, cutting down hordes of soldiers and capturing bases, you'll regularly come face-to-face with named enemy officers who are much more potent than the average grunt. At this point, Origins seamlessly transitions to a style of combat built around precise timing and judicious use of your skills (known as Arts). By guarding at just the right moment, you can parry incoming attacks and follow up with a powerful attack of your own. Not only is this gratifying--as steel clashes with steel and your opponent is momentarily knocked back--but these counterattacks also chip away at an officer's Fortitude. This aura of protective energy surrounds each named enemy and, when fully broken, leaves them vulnerable to an Assault, which sees you launch into a stylish series of strikes that deal massive damage to your defenseless foe.
Some enemy attacks can't be parried, requiring you to either dodge or use a specific Art to disrupt the incoming strike. You can enter battle equipped with up to four different Arts, as each weapon type offers a variety of these unique attacks to choose from. Some are excellent at clearing the battlefield with big, broad swings--creating powerful shockwaves or miniature tornados--while others are more precise and suited to one-on-one duels. Whichever ones you opt for, Arts are typically fun to unleash and add another layer of depth to Origins' combat, even if it's often just another way to obliterate the regular rank and file with relative ease.
What's most impressive is how cohesive the transition between these two divergent combat styles feels. Origins recaptures the hack-and-slash essence of Dynasty Warriors and pushes the series forward by blending formulas, creating an experience that feels both familiar and unique. It's still inherently repetitive, but the fusion of combat styles makes for a much more engaging and active game that's elevated beyond being a by-the-numbers power fantasy.
The nine available weapon types also play a role in easing the dearth of playable characters. Ranging from swords and spears to more specialized armaments like twin pikes and crescent blades, each weapon type feels different enough from the rest to stand out. The Podao, for instance, is designed around slow but devastating charged attacks, while the Wheels are at their most effective when you're able to attack in a rhythmic flow. You also have access to various Tactics, where you can issue orders to a small squad of soldiers, commanding volleys of arrows and cavalry charges to decimate the enemy ranks.
This feeds into an emphasis on strategy that's present in most missions, as you're given the freedom to assess the situation and decide where you're needed most, whether that's helping a particular ally, capturing bases, or forging ahead to take out officers on the front line. Successfully retaking control of bases and defeating officers increases your army's morale, making them much more proficient fighters. Not only are they able to capture territory without your aid, but they also provide real assistance when fighting by your side.
All of this comes to a head in the final stages of most missions when a massive number of soldiers gather to create two Large Forces. These cinematic skirmishes are exhilarating, with hundreds of soldiers lined up, ready to charge into battle. Running alongside this pulsating crowd before violently colliding with the enemy makes you feel like a Rohirrim charging into a swarm of orcs at the Battle of the Pelennor Fields. Except you're also a one-man army, able to wipe out hundreds of peons and further batter their morale by defeating numerous officers along the way. It's just a shame there's no co-op after it was such a significant feature in previous games. These epic battles are ripe for experiencing with a friend by your side.
Instead, you spend Origins' campaign fighting alongside and against the likes of Liu Bei, Cao Cao, and Sun Jian. As a new character, you're not aligned with any faction, so the first few chapters see you joining forces with everyone. Once you reach Chapter 3, however, you have a pivotal choice to make as you're forced to side with one of the aforementioned warriors. From here, the game branches into three distinct campaigns and makes it easy to go back after you've finished one and play through the rest. This adds heaps of replayability if you're itching for more, although the game's repetition is in danger of collapsing into monotonous territory at this point.
Dynasty Warriors: Origins is an ambitious game that forcefully pushes the reset button after the failings of Dynasty Warriors 9. It's a marked improvement on that game in almost every area, utilizing modern technology to expand upon its hack-and-slash core while implementing a more considered and action-oriented approach that enhances its exorbitant combat. Longtime fans are likely downtrodden by its minuscule roster and lack of co-op, and the story has a habit of clogging the game's pacing with too many redundant conversations, but these shortcomings mostly fade into the background once you're entrenched in the heat of battle. At that moment, there are few sights better than a dozen peons hurtling helplessly through the air.
I didn't expect much from Sonic the Hedgehog 3. The first movie was a nice little diversion from COVID, but the sequel was quite irritating--and with the same director and writers back for another go-around, I figured we were in for another round of "more of the same." Fortunately for all of us, I was wrong: The threequel successfully reins in the pop culture references and Jim Carrey's wackiness just enough, while also giving us a serious villain for the first time with Keanu Reeves's Shadow, and the result is that Sonic the Hedgehog 3 works better for audiences of all ages than its predecessors, which were more squarely aimed at children.
Sonic 3 picks up some time after the last movie, and the Wachowskis have adopted Tails and Knuckles along with Sonic--they've got a nice little family unit going. Robotnik, meanwhile, is very depressed, just hanging out in his crab mech binge-eating snacks and binge-watching telenovelas. In other words, all is well. At least until an unknown person manages to free the mysterious Shadow the Hedgehog from stasis, letting him loose to pursue revenge for something that happened long ago and putting him into conflict with Sonic, Tails, and Knuckles.
That unknown person was, it turns out, another Dr. Robotnik--grandpa to the one we know (but still played by Jim Carrey). Robotnik Sr. and Shadow are allies, having shared a deep trauma decades earlier that is driving them both to extreme lengths for revenge. The younger Robotnik, the one who was a bad guy in the other two movies, serves as a wild card, because he wants to team up with his grandad but has a pretty different ultimate goal.
The plot is messy and doesn't quite add up. For example: One major character, GUN director Rockwell (Krysten Ritter), positions herself as an antagonist but then bows out of the movie halfway through, and it's hard to tell what point there was in including her. But it's easier to overlook potential plot holes like that one this time out because the movie's tone is more controlled than the last one was.
Look at the Robotniks, for example. Jim Carrey is still a complete weirdo in his dual roles, but it doesn't feel like he's riffing the whole time the way it did in the last one. Part of that is likely because of the technical restraints--Carrey shares most of his scenes with himself, and it's more difficult to improv in that kind of filmmaking situation. But that's a great thing for the movie, because it keeps Carrey from crossing the threshold into being outright annoying too often, and his jokes now hit more than miss. Though when he does miss, it's still pretty grating.
The inclusion of Shadow the Hedgehog as the other villain also helps restrain the goofiness, because he's actually a serious character, unlike previous antagonists Robotnik and Knuckles (the latter's shtick working much better in a supporting protagonist role this time). Shadow's seriousness, aided by Keanu Reeves's tired and sad line delivery, gives Sonic 3 a marked heft that the first two movies did not have at all.
That's also nice because it gives us a bad guy who can match the earnestness of Sonic, Tails, and Knuckles. Shadow is the angry counterpart to Sonic's carefree nature, a dark vision of what Sonic might have turned out like had things gone differently for him. Reeves would be great for the part in a vacuum, but he's also particularly effective as a counter to Ben Schwartz's happy-go-lucky delivery as Sonic. Schwartz once again does solid work as the speedster, though he's been so consistent through all three movies that it feels like faint praise at this point. He was and continues to be the right guy for the job.
The other key returning human characters--Tom (James Marsden), Maddie (Tika Sumpter), and Stone (Lee Majdoub)--have a little bit less to do in this one, but that doesn't dampen their enthusiasm any. The three actors are super comfortable in these roles and are clearly having a blast, and that vibe is infectious. Stone in particular has become a uniquely fun character, because he's just a genuinely nice, smart, and hot dude who just happens to be an evil henchman. It's a very unusual characterization.
It's not hard to figure out why the humans took a bit of a backseat this time--with the addition of Shadow, there are four CGI main characters now, and the movie leaves most of the third act to them and the Robotniks as they do battle in outer space. Finding a place to use Marsden and Sumpter during this part would have been more trouble than it's worth, and the immense success of the Super Mario Bros. Movie demonstrated quite clearly that it's OK to leave behind the grounding elements and go all in on the video game stuff. The result is that the final battle in Sonic the Hedgehog 3 is far bigger in scope than the climactic fights from either of the previous flicks, and the entirely CGI action sequences are gorgeous and very well directed. These are easily the best sequences in this series thus far.
Sonic the Hedgehog 3 succeeds not because it's a complete shakeup for the series--it isn't that at all--but rather because it refines the franchise template in the right way, swapping out a lot of the pop-culture references for more original humor and putting more of the focus on the game characters. This Sonic film took itself just a bit more seriously than the first two did, without going overboard and turning grim and gritty--director Jeff Fowler and co. found the right balance this time around.
Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver was ahead of its time when it launched in 1999 for the original PlayStation. From its storytelling and worldbuilding to the technical prowess behind its interconnected world and innovative Realm shifting, developer Crystal Dynamics created a near-masterpiece of environmental and narrative design, with ideas and concepts that still resonate to this day.
Now, 25 years later--and 21 years since the last game in the series--Legacy of Kain makes its overdue return with Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver 1&2 Remastered, bundling together two of the greatest action-adventure games of all time. Developed in partnership with Crystal Dynamics and Aspyr--the latter of which recently launched the similarly packaged Tomb Raider I-III Remastered--this bundle reintroduces the world to vampire protagonist Raziel and his quest for revenge against the eponymous Kain. With improved visuals and a modern control scheme, it's a solid remaster that, above all, showcases why these games are so revered.
Set in the decaying land of Nosgoth--where vampires are apex predators and humans cower within walled cities--the first Soul Reaver begins with Raziel committing the sin of surpassing his master, Kain, in evolution. As the self-proclaimed king of Nosgoth, Kain sired and raised Raziel as his eldest lieutenant and son, tasking him and his four brothers with besieging the land and decimating humanity to ensure his despotic rule. By growing a set of wings, however, Raziel is deemed to have threatened Kain's supremacy and is thrown into the Lake of the Dead to suffer for all eternity. After rotting for centuries, Raziel is resurrected by a dormant god and set on a path of vengeance to seek out his brothers and kill them before doing the same to Kain.
This sets up a relatively straightforward plot that's enriched and broadened by excellent writing throughout. Written and directed by Amy Hennig--who would later go on to pen the first three Uncharted games--Soul Reaver exhibits a cinematic flair that was uncommon at the time of its release. Inspired in part by John Milton's iconic poem, Paradise Lost, there's an ornate style to the game's writing, permeating a sense of gravitas that's wonderfully brought to life by a cast of trained stage actors. It's a rich, gothic tale of authentic vampire mythology, yet Soul Reaver and its sequel also confront more philosophical themes such as free will, predestination, and cyclical violence, supplementing both games' fantastic worldbuilding and adding depth to their characters and their motivations.
Part of the reason why the writing is so effective is because it's reflected in Nosgoth itself. In the first Soul Reaver, what was previously a grandiose land is now eternally decayed. "Once a testament to mankind's defiance of Kain's empire, this towering cathedral now stood derelict, the humans who worshipped here, centuries dead," Raziel says upon entering the Silenced Cathedral. This spiral minaret was constructed as a holy weapon, intended to blast a deadly hymn that would destroy every vampiric creature in Nosgoth: "a colossal instrument of brass and stone." Before it could serve its purpose, however, the cathedral was attacked and its weapon disabled--the massive reverberating pipes fell silent.
When Raziel arrives, you need to traverse the labyrinthian depths of the Silenced Cathedral, manipulating the airflow of these pipes to ascend the tower and reach the upper spires where one of your brothers resides. It's this marriage between mechanics, story, and worldbuilding that distinguishes Soul Reaver as a triumph in game design. Whether you're exploring the murky waters of the Drowned Abbey or unveiling the mysteries of The Tomb of the Sarafan, each part of Nosgoth is drenched in this same intertwined excellence.
At the time of its release, it was also a technical marvel, utilizing level streaming to create a seamless, interconnected 3D world with no loading screens. We might take level streaming for granted now, but Soul Reaver was one of the early pioneers of the technology. What's more impressive, and still endures to this day, is the game's ambitious Realm shifting. When Raziel awakens from his eternal torment, he's been stripped of his vampiric glory and is now a wraith, cursed to feed on souls instead of blood. Trapped inside an eroded husk with his wings now ragged, Raziel can shift between two overlapping Realms: the Material and the Spectral. In the latter, the physical Realm becomes distorted, warping the geometry of the world around you. Impassible obstacles like water simply dissipate--it has neither heft nor lift--fissures in rocky walls transform into open passages, and platforms contort to reveal new pathways.
With improved visuals and a modern control scheme, Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver 1&2 Remastered is a solid remaster that, above all, showcases why these games are so revered
Compared to other 3D titles available at the time, the scale of Soul Reaver already felt huge. Being able to shift between two concurrently loaded realms in real-time, essentially forcing you to consider each room as two separate rooms, was just the cherry on top. It's fascinating and never felt like a gimmick, providing a platform for many of the game's environmental puzzles.
These conundrums take up the bulk of your time, whether you're lining up blocks to complete murals, reactivating antiquated machinery to open the path forward, or ringing two bells to smash a glass wall with their thundering soundwaves. For the most part, Soul Reaver's puzzles are engaging, even if some variation of each one has appeared in other games since. The frequency of block-pushing puzzles is much too high, though, which quickly becomes tedious. The game's save system is also odd and is one area of the remaster where things should've been altered. You can save your progress at any time, but loading one of these saves always sends you back to the game's start point. Warp Gates can be used to teleport back to where you were, but this forces you to replay sections over again, adding needless backtracking to a game that already requires you to run back through previously visited areas on multiple occasions.
Fortunately, Soul Reaver 2 features a more traditional save system, letting you save and reload at specific checkpoints. This is presumably because the sequel is a leaner, more streamlined game than its predecessor, lacking any of the optional side areas of the first game. Its puzzles are also more diverse, focusing on the different elemental powers Raziel unlocks throughout the game with some complex riddles. The sequel's dearth of bosses is disappointing, though, and even with some improvements to combat--like adding a block and more weapon variety--fighting enemies is still secondary to exploration and puzzle-solving.
Combat does have its merits, however. Vampires can't be killed by simply hitting them enough times. Instead, you need to rough them up until they're weak enough to be grabbed, then either burn them in sunlight, drown them in water, or impale them on spikes before siphoning their souls. This forces you to observe your surroundings in the midst of battle; launching a vampire onto a 10-foot-high spike is always exhilarating. Combat is the most archaic aspect of both games, but there are still some interesting ideas here that deftly merge with other aspects of each game's design.
In terms of what was changed for this remaster, one of the most significant improvements is that both games now feature full control of the camera, letting you adjust it with the right stick. Not being able to do this is a major barrier to entry when attempting to replay the original games, so this puts them more in line with modern third-person games. Raziel's still not the smoothest character to control, but there are only a couple of irritating sections in the first game where precise platforming is required. Figuring out where to go next is another occasional issue with the original due to the game's open nature and non-existent map. The remaster alleviates this somewhat by adding a compass and world map, along with a bit of text that states the current objective, but neither is particularly impactful. The compass is only helpful during the few instances when a character tells you to head in a specific direction, while the world map essentially functions as a key for each of the warp gate's symbols. Although it is a nice touch to include a depiction of Nosgoth's geography for the first time.
The visual upgrade is the most obvious change, with more detailed character models and textures, modern lighting effects, and dynamic shadows. Some were worried prior to release because both games looked too bright in early screenshots, losing their original dark and gothic aesthetics, but that's not the case in the final release. You can instantly toggle between the new graphics and the old, and it maintains the same gritty mood in both. In fact, the remaster feels like it's slapped a new lick of paint on the original games more than anything. There's a definitive improvement, but it's underwhelming that a few notable blemishes still remain, whether it's the Soul Reaver blade frequently clipping through the floor or the dated fire and water effects that appear unchanged.
Beyond this, the remaster also has a plethora of bonus material to dive into, including explorations of the series' lore, tons of artwork and renders, old demo videos, outtakes from the recording sessions, a music player, and a number of lost levels you can now play for the first time. These old relics are comparable to an interactive museum, letting you explore unfinished areas that were cut from the original game due to time restraints, budget issues, or creative decisions. It's a fascinating look at the game's development and what might have been if things had gone differently.
It can sometimes be tough to appreciate games from the past because so much of game design is built on iteration. That isn't a problem with Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver 1&2 Remastered. There are archaic elements to both games, yet it's surprising just how well they hold up today. There's no doubt that improvements to the game's controls and, to a lesser extent, their visuals contribute to this, but the main reason they persevere is because of their masterful melding of story, worldbuilding, and mechanics with a handful of innovative ideas. Much like Raziel, this isn't a perfect revival, but it preserves a pair of classic games and, in an ideal world, will attract a new audience to a series that has been dormant for far too long. Hopefully, this is just the beginning of its resurgence.
When the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers emerged as many Americans' first exposure to the popular Super Sentai series, it was hard not to feel like it was riding the wave of Turtle-mania that defined the early 1990s. After all, it was a band of color-coordinated heroes who traded gentle quips and used martial arts to dispatch endless faceless baddies. I watched MMPR at the time, but I was also just cresting the age at which I felt a little embarrassed by its undeniable camp. Three decades later, Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: Rita's Rewind once again feels a bit like it's riding the turtles' coattails. TMNT: Shredder's Revenge was an excellent retro brawler throwback, and by comparison, Rita's Rewind is a pretty good retro brawler throwback, but one with some of its own special charms--as well as its own frustrations.
Rita's Rewind fully recognizes the passage of time, even pinning down specific years. The original Rangers are still fighting evil in 2023, now against a mechanized Robo Rita--a timely reference to the villain of the reunion movie, 2023's Power Rangers: Once and Always. But apparently overwhelmed by these Rangers who have decades of experience, Robo Rita hatches a plan to go back in time and team up with her flesh-and-blood self. The modern-day Rangers say it's too dangerous to follow her through time and risk a paradox, so they just have to hope their younger selves are able to withstand the machinations of two Ritas.
That places Rita's Rewind strictly on the 1993 timeline, which means it's the first time the Rangers are encountering mainstays like Goldar and the Green Ranger. The only real difference is that this time we see Rita Repulsa bickering with Robo Rita over strategy.
That self-aware setting makes this ripe for callbacks, like some of the earliest and most iconic monsters in Power Rangers history. Your progress is divided into stages, but also episodes, as the same monster will typically span three stages to make a complete episodic story. It's a cute hook that cleverly invokes nostalgia for the classic, campy TV show. At one point there's even a clever homage to the trailblazing game Final Fight.
Most of the stages are typical brawler fare, as your chosen Ranger takes on a variety of Putties (and occasionally Tengas) with their own themed attacks. Light-blue Putties, for example, will run straight towards you with a spike, but if you successfully dodge, they'll crash into a wall and get dizzy for a few seconds. None of the enemies are particularly bright, but they're built to overwhelm you with numbers. Your moveset is limited to a few basic attacks, jump-kicks, and dash-moves, but it's generally enough to deal with the enemy hordes. For times when you might get overwhelmed, there's a super attack you can unleash after collecting enough Power Coins to charge it, and it almost always clears the field.
The Rangers are well differentiated in their animations, which help to express their individual personalities. The Black Ranger Zack's down-smash attack breaks out his power axe, for example, while the Pink Ranger Kimberly shoots down like an arrow and strikes a pose like she just stuck the landing in a gymnastic event. It's cute. That said, their individual attack strength, range, and speed feel effectively the same. That makes picking your Ranger more a matter of personal preference than strategy. The super attacks similarly have different screen-filling effects, but when they all clear the board, there's not a functional difference.
Sometimes brawler stages are interrupted by a Time Disrupter, a green device that will rewind everything if you don't destroy it quickly enough. That's an inventive little twist, since you have to juggle dealing with Putties while also trying to damage the Time Disrupter, or you'll have to fight the same Putties over again. But the Time Disrupter retains whatever damage you did, so you can chip it down over multiple rounds. Sometimes this can even work to your advantage--once I lost a life while a Time Disrupter was active, then time rewound and I got the life back and performed better to keep it.
In between stages, you hang out at the local juice bar, where you can talk a little to other characters or play simple arcade games. It's a sweet little diversion that helps sell the feeling of watching an old Power Rangers episode.
Most episodes culminate in a vehicle-chase segment with your individual prehistoric-themed robot, which in true Power Rangers fashion, usually then transitions to a big MegaZord brawl. These are rendered with a retro Mode-7-esque effect and are styled like arcade shooters, firing your weapons to get temporary power-ups to more swiftly take down the enemy ships flying towards you. The MegaZord battle is more akin to a first-person Punch-Out, as you shift left or right to dodge attacks and then wail on your super-sized enemy to charge up the Power Sword, which rains down from the sky to deliver your finishing strike.
These stages seem intended to break up the pacing, but they're often frustrating. The hit detection in the vehicle segments is imprecise and hard to judge thanks to the Mode-7-like effects, so it's easy to sustain a hit and die or, worse, get crushed by a piece of geometry. That means you lose a life. But unlike the regular brawler stages where you continue right where you left off, these start you back at an often arbitrary-feeling checkpoint. If that's before a boss that you had nearly beaten, it means you're starting from scratch with the boss at full health. It can be easy to lose all three allotted lives, which then prompts you to use a continue--a limited resource on most difficulty levels, which starts you back from the beginning of the whole stage.
The big boss-finishing MegaZord segments feel strangely off in a different way. Dodging is floaty and imprecise, and getting hit resets the meter to build up your Power Sword. But there also doesn't seem to be any damage. If it's even possible to die in these segments, I never saw it. There are green, yellow, and red lights in the MegaZord cockpit that seem intended to signify damage, but they never lit up. It's possible that these segments are meant to be impossible to lose, and the only penalty is delay, because it's supposed to feel big and empowering. But it seems just as possible that, faced with imprecise dodging that would make damage too frustrating, the developers just opted to make you invincible.
Like a classic brawler, Rita's Rewind can be finished in a few hours, and once you're done, there's not much reason to replay. There is a bonus unlockable character that you can play with, but they handle mostly similarly to the other Rangers. The Rangers don't level up with experience, and there isn't a currency or shop to buy bonuses or extras. The stages do have bonus objectives, but it isn't clear what completing them gives you other than bragging rights. There are multiple difficulty modes to test your skills, of course, and there is a Speed Run mode with an on-screen timer, if replaying the game to top your best time strikes your fancy.
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: Rita's Rewind feels light and disposable. It's a largely enjoyable brawler throwback that plays well and accurately captures the spirit of the original old-school Power Rangers. The vehicle segments can be frustrating, but the larger issue with MMPR is that it's ephemeral. Like watching an episode of Power Rangers on a lazy afternoon, you'll have a little campy fun and then immediately forget about it.
For my money, there isn't a better horror monster than The Thing's shape-shifting alien organism. Even 42 years later, Rob Bottin's practical effects are still incredible, capturing each freakish amalgamation of tentacles, sharp teeth, sinew, and traces of malformed humanity with ghastly clarity. I've seen The Thing dozens of times, yet seeing Norris' decapitated head contort and grow arthropod-esque legs will never fail to twist my stomach in knots. These are the everlasting images of The Thing, but it's the alien's ability to perfectly imitate anyone that genuinely terrifies, permeating each scene with an unnerving sense of dread and paranoia that affects both its characters and the audience watching. Who do you trust when anyone could be a clandestine threat?
Back in 2002, developer Computer Artworks attempted to translate this feeling into an officially licensed video game for The Thing. The now-shuttered studio came close to succeeding, too, creating a third-person horror-action game with a unique squad system that ensured you could never entirely trust the person fighting by your side. It's become somewhat of a cult classic since then, leading to this remaster from Nightdive Studios--a developer known for faithfully restoring myriad games, including Shadow Man and Star Wars: Dark Forces. The Thing: Remastered is a similarly authentic experience, albeit with a number of key improvements to the game's visuals, controls, and some quality-of-life mechanics. Beyond this, it's much the same game as it was in 2002, for both the good and the bad.
The game's setup is one of its better aspects, acting as a direct sequel to John Carpenter's iconic 1982 film. You play as the bland, one-dimensional Captain Blake, leader of a U.S. Special Forces rescue team sent to investigate Outpost 31 in the isolating tundra of Antarctica. Of course, we know what transpired when MacReady and the rest of this research facility encountered the shape-shifting alien life-form, and it doesn't take long before Blake is fighting off all manner of horrific entities. He's rather nonchalant about the whole thing, though, anchoring a relatively thin story that feels distinctly 2002 in all the worst ways. While it begins as a more action-oriented facsimile of the film it's ostensibly a sequel to, the narrative quickly delves into predictable territory with the military experimenting on the Thing to use the alien for its own gain. It's all very stereotypical, with melodramatic voice acting and--aside from a fun cameo from John Carpenter himself--an inherently disposable cast of characters.
Most of the people you meet are potential squad members. To survive The Thing: Remastered, earning and maintaining the trust of the surviving crew is paramount. By killing enemies and supplying each squadmate with weapons, ammo, and healing, they'll happily fight alongside you. The twist is that this is The Thing, so you could be handing a weapon to an enemy interloper or someone paranoid enough to suspect you of being one yourself. Not only can your squad members be a Thing in disguise, but they also have the capacity to turn on you if their trust diminishes or they're overcome by fear. They regularly experience anxiety, which spikes when witnessing traumatic events, such as seeing a dismembered corpse or a particularly grotesque alien. If they suffer from enough stress or lose your trust--because you accidentally shot them, didn't take part in combat, and so on--they'll crack and run away, kill themselves, or start shooting everyone around them, attempting to kill both you and your colleagues.
It's a thoughtful implementation of the film's tenants of trust, paranoia, and deception, with the potential to generate nail-biting tension through friend and foe alike. Suddenly, your squadmates are more than just simple NPCs; they're people displaying real human behavior. It was an innovative concept back in 2002 when this kind of trust and fear management was unheard of. Even today, it's not something I've seen implemented in other single-player games; typically, it's reserved for social multiplayer experiences like Among Us instead.
The Thing: Remastered is [an] authentic experience, albeit with a number of key improvements to the game's visuals, controls, and some quality-of-life mechanics. Beyond this, it's much the same game as it was in 2002, for both the good and the bad
For the game's first couple of hours, the way these ideas are executed is compelling. The Thing: Remastered immediately establishes an unsettling atmosphere as you begin exploring the dilapidated remnants of Outpost 31. Your teammates are already on edge even before you discover a flying saucer buried under the ice, with the howl of the Arctic's bitingly cold wind and Ennio Morricone's haunting score punctuating certain moments with another alluring layer of unease. Nightdive has done a fantastic job of updating the original game's visuals, too, with improved character models, textures, and animations, as well as dynamic lighting and shadows to really spruce up the 22-year-old game. It still maintains the somewhat blocky look of a game from the PS2 era but smoothes over its rougher edges with modern techniques that make the visuals more palatable for a modern audience.
As you progress further into the game, you'll come up against all manner of enemy creatures, from small four-legged scuttlers to more humanoid monstrosities with deadly claws and exposed innards. These larger enemies need to be damaged with small-arms fire before being set alight with either a flamethrower or incendiary grenade. Fortunately, Nightdive has altered the flamethrower so that it doesn't burn you if you're holding the trigger while simultaneously moving forward. Ammunition is also much more plentiful, preventing those instances in the original game where you would be forced to reload a save from hours before to try and conserve enough ammo for later. Aside from these welcome changes, combat in The Thing: Remastered feels much the same, utilizing a generous lock-on system that makes it easy to clear out rooms without much thought. It's fine but hardly compelling.
Your teammates aren't too shabby in a fight, at least, though their main purpose is often to open doors for you. The game's level design is commonly built on gating your progression with broken junction boxes that prevent things like doors and computers from working. While you're able to fix some of this damaged equipment, most of them require a specialized engineer, creating one of the first issues with the game's notion that "anyone could be an alien." If you require an engineer to progress, then their death or transformation simply results in a game over screen, removing the potential for the type of randomness that makes the game's concept so enticing. The more you play, the more it's revealed that The Thing: Remastered is essentially struggling under the weight of its own ambition. Certain squad members will become aliens at pre-determined points, no matter how carefully you've managed their trust and fear. Even if a blood test reveals that they're still human mere seconds before, this is quickly rendered moot by the game's rigid scripting.
As a result, The Thing: Remastered falters as a squad-based game because you're never incentivized to care about anyone's survival but your own. With the story dictating when certain characters will transform--and most teammates disappearing at the end of each level anyway--forming any sort of attachment to them is futile. There are no repercussions for trusting your teammates, either. Any weapons you give them are dropped when they transform, and keeping their trust up and fear down is a simple task, so I never felt like anyone would crack, which gradually chips away at the game's tension. By the halfway point, Computer Artworks seemingly struggled to take the concept any further, turning the game into a boilerplate run-and-gun shooter that sees you fighting aliens and mindless human enemies alike. It's a far cry from the game's opening and makes for a banal slog towards a disappointing ending.
I have fond memories of playing The Thing back in 2002 because there wasn't anything else quite like it. It was inventive and exciting, and even today, no one else is trying to do what Computer Artworks attempted in the single-player space. I commend the studio for what it achieved, but the limitations of the technology--and its design constraints--are much more apparent now, even with nostalgia-tinted glasses on. Nightdive has done a fantastic job of restoring this flawed but intriguing game, continuing its crucial work with game preservation. All of the changes it's made are positive, resulting in a better game, both visually and mechanically. Nonetheless, this is a case where a complete remake would've been much more appealing, allowing for the trust and fear system to be fleshed out with less rigidity and more dynamism. As it is, Computer Artworks' vision might never be fully realized, and that's a shame.
The second level in Indiana Jones and The Great Circle takes Indy inside the bowels of Vatican City. It's the first time when MachineGames breaks loose from its linear shackles, presenting you with a massive play area to freely explore. I went from gawking at Michelangelo's masterpiece on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel to exploring the ancient ruins hidden deep beneath the holy city, spending more than three hours on this single level alone without coming close to completing every task in Indy's journal.
It's not quite what I expected from a studio known for its frenetic shooters, nor a game that's been described as a first-person action-adventure. For the most part, The Great Circle is a stealth game that resembles Dishonored more than any of MachineGames' previous output. Sure, you could skulk through the shadows in Wolfenstein, plunging knives into Nazi spines, but it was a shooter first and foremost. The Great Circle has moments of action, but its violence is sudden and tends to end quickly, indicative of Indiana Jones as a character; it wouldn't make sense if he were running and gunning like BJ Blazkowicz. It's a refreshing change of pace for the studio, and it's a rip-roaring good time, even if the inexperience of creating this sort of game sometimes shows.
In terms of story and tone, MachineGames definitely understood the assignment. The Great Circle's prologue is essentially a love letter to Raiders of the Lost Ark, immediately making it clear how much the studio both grasps and reveres the series and its globe-trotting protagonist. This feeling persists throughout the entire game, beginning with an opening level that takes place inside the fictional walls of Marshall College, where Indy teaches archeology. The Great Circle is set between the events of Raiders of the Lost Ark and The Last Crusade, weaving into the existing fabric of the series in a way that makes it feel like a natural extension of Indy's story. A few familiar faces return, and new characters seamlessly blend into its cinematic world, contributing to a compelling adventure that sees you travel the world, uncover ancient mysteries, and butt heads with the Axis powers.
The Great Circle does a fantastic job of nailing the look and sound of the 43-year-old series. The triumphant score by composer Gordy Haab captures the essence of John Williams's iconic original; Indy looks like he's stepped right out of the silver screen, and Troy Baker does a wonderful impression of the famed treasure hunter, perfecting both his voice and physical mannerisms. It's often almost impossible to tell you're not listening to a young, charismatic Harrison Ford, which is also a credit to the game's writing and how it achieves Indy's charm, distinct humor, and all-consuming passion for history and archeology. Emmerich Voss, a Nazi archeologist for the Third Reich Special Antiquities Collection, also acts as a compelling foil to Indy. He's manipulative and sneeringly evil while also sharing similar traits with our hero, mirroring Indy's obsession with a much more twisted moral compass.
In an effort to stop Voss and his fascist underlings, The Great Circle takes you across the globe, from the looming shadows of the Great Pyramids to a Nazi battleship teetering precariously on top of a Himalayan mountain. Each location is meticulously detailed and clearly researched, recreating specific places from the films--like Marshall College--and actual historical sites alike, balancing fiction and history in a way the best Indiana Jones tales often do.
I spent way too long roaming the halls of Indy's collegiate workplace, observing all of the trimmings in his office and examining each display case in its museum. The first-person perspective and tactile nature of everything you do makes for a wonderfully immersive experience. The in-game map, for instance, is a physical item you can pull out and look at while exploring; unlocking doors requires you to take out a key and turn it in the lock, and many of the puzzles are solved by grabbing and using items in the environment, whether you're placing cogwheels in an ancient contraption or pouring wine into specific altars.
Puzzles often play out like environmental riddles, challenging you to observe your surroundings to figure out a solution. Others see you consulting Indy's journal, which tracks and catalogs your adventure with notes, photos, and clues that you take and gather yourself. There are two difficulty settings for puzzles: The default setting and another that makes them easier. I stuck with the default, and aside from a few tricky conundrums in some of the later side quests, I didn't find The Great Circle's multi-layered puzzles particularly difficult. Most were rather simple, in fact, but the game's tactile nature, lush environments, and blending of tone and mechanics meant that I still enjoyed solving each one.
There's some light platforming involved, too, letting you use Indy's iconic whip to swing over chasms and descend into dusty tombs. The slow process of climbing, mantling, and shimmying across ledges is quite stale--and the awkward shifts between first- and third-person aren't handled as elegantly as they could be--but I did appreciate the lack of yellow paint and how this forces you to scrutinize the environment before barreling forward. There's still the occasional white cloth blowing in the wind or tied to some ledges, but they're less noticeable.
[Indiana Jones and the Great Circle is] a refreshing change of pace for the studio and it's a rip-roaring good time
When you're not rummaging through centuries-old catacombs and discovering hidden treasures, most of your time is spent avoiding the prying eyes of patrolling Nazis. There are guns in The Great Circle, but I never felt compelled to fire any of them. Firearms were never a first, second, or even third option for dealing with the game's enemies, partly because of the game's strong focus on making you feel like Indiana Jones, but also because there's a lot of freedom and player expression in how you can approach enemies. Particularly in its larger and more open-ended levels, there are multiple solutions to almost every combat encounter, whether you're utilizing scaffolding to climb up and around a fascist checkpoint, crawling through a jagged hole in a fence, or donning a disguise to stroll right through the entrance. These immersive-sim elements are fairly light, but they imbue the game's stealth and exploration with a palpable sense of player agency.
If you opt for the clandestine route, you'll find that stealth in The Great Circle is forgiving enough on the game's default difficulty to where you can sneak past Nazi patrols relatively quickly. It takes a while for guards to fully notice you, establishing a kinetic pace that's further complemented by some cinematic flourishes. To perform a stealth takedown, for instance, you need to grab a makeshift weapon from the environment. I can't count the amount of times I clobbered a Nazi over the head with all sorts of guitars, broomsticks, wine bottles, and dirty frying pans.
It's satisfying, to say the least. And if you are spotted, it's not the end of the world. You can play fast and loose with the game's stealth systems because being seen typically only results in a small-scale brawl. Most enemies are keen to engage you in a fistfight rather than calling for backup, and it's rare for more than a few enemies to notice when things go awry. Indy's punches feel weighty and make a thunderous impact when they connect, which somewhat makes up for the enemy AI's predictable and slightly rigid attacks. Parrying is also simple to execute thanks to a generous timing window, and there are few feelings quite as satisfying as catching a Nazi's left hook before following up with a devastating haymaker of your own. Combat is quite shallow, however, and I could see some tedium creeping in, but only if I'd chosen to instigate too many fights.
It's possible to avoid combat altogether if you're careful, but flitting between considered sneaking and bursts of chaotic brawling just feels right. Indy has always been a scrappy underdog going up against the might of the Third Reich. He's a superhero without any superpowers, but he's resourceful, resolute, and a master of improvisation. If going undetected doesn't work, knock some skulls together. If a fascist shows up to a fistfight with a gun, whip it out of his hands. Then, when more show up, pick up that same gun and use it as an impromptu melee weapon to beat them to a pulp. This is just another facet where MachineGames has captured the spirit of being Indiana Jones, resulting in a thrilling dynamic between stealth and action.
There are a few smaller, more linear levels mixed in between the larger freeform ones that hone in on this dynamic. This is also where you're strapped into The Great Circle's veritable rollercoaster of histrionic set pieces, appropriating the intense action sequences for which the series is known. These moments tend to be fairly straightforward from a gameplay perspective, but they succeed in creating a large-scale spectacle, whether you're shooting down Japanese warplanes in Shanghai or hurtling down the side of a snow-covered mountain.
The game's massive open-ended levels are the highlight, though. Not just because they provide multiple ways for you to complete objectives, but because your exploration is also rewarded with various side quests, secrets, and more. "Fieldwork," as some optional missions are labeled, are more involved than the smaller Mysteries you'll find. They sometimes tie into the main adventure, adding more depth to the game's narrative, while others present intriguing standalone tales.
One in Sukhothai revolves around finding a missing person who, it turns out, is trapped in a tomb full of mechanical apparatus that's controlled by directing the flow of water. Another, in Giza, relates to one of the secretive factions involved in the main story, sending you into the scorpion-infested caverns beneath the Great Sphinx to uncover more about their purpose. Mysteries, meanwhile, are smaller in scale. You might intercept correspondence between two enemies engaged in a code-breaking game or seek out some thieving primates who stole a key to one of the fascist's store rooms--where numerous goodies await.
By completing these quests, you're rewarded with skill books, money, or one of the game's various collectibles. The Great Circle doesn't feature a traditional skill tree; instead, Indy learns new abilities by reading books scattered throughout the game. It makes sense since he's an archeologist and professor, and these skills are somewhat grounded, letting you improve your stamina or increase the power behind your punches. They're not the most exciting upgrades, but unlocking them via exploration feels organic.
Indiana Jones and The Great Circle is the quintessential Indiana Jones game. It captures the look, sound, and spirit of the movies, presenting a riveting story with an unexpected focus on stealth and freeform exploration that satisfies even when certain aspects of its design are slightly underwhelming. More than anything, MachineGames has successfully designed a game around its protagonist; its mix of improvisational stealth and combat feels distinct by adopting a fast and loose style that echoes Indy's scrappy persistence. It might not be quite as accomplished in all areas as the studio's Wolfenstein games, but Indiana Jones and The Great Circle is still a frequent delight.
It's incredible that Stalker 2: Heart of Chornobyl even exists. In addition to weathering the COVID-19 pandemic, developer GSC Game World was faced with the Russian invasion of its native Ukraine, kicking off a war that sadly still rages on today. While many GSC staff were able to flee the country, others were unable to, and some even continue to fight for their country on the war's frontlines. Amidst the terrifying sound of air-raid sirens and frequent missile attacks, people somehow persevered, continuing to work on the game at home in between volunteer work, all while suffering the loss of beloved friends, colleagues, family members, and pets. Even those who left Ukraine and began working at a new office in Prague weren't free of turbulence. Countless Russian cyberattacks, leaked builds, and even a fire that destroyed the studio's server room have all occurred over the past couple of years.
Yet, despite all of this, Stalker 2 is here. Its release is nothing short of a miraculous achievement and a testament to the people who fought tooth and nail to reach this point in the face of unimaginable hardships. The game that emerged from such horrifying events is one that boldly sticks to the studio's vision of a seamless open-world survival shooter, which the series has always strived to be. It's rough around the edges and uncompromising in a way that is sometimes off-putting. Yet the series' emergent gameplay remains intact and is further complemented by a fascinating setting and the most accomplished combat in the series so far. It doesn't reinvent the wheel, and at times it feels like you're playing a game straight out of 2010, but that's part of its charm and feeds into what makes Stalker 2 the quintessential Stalker experience.
If you're unfamiliar with GSC's post-apocalyptic world, each game takes place in an alternate version of the Chornobyl Exclusion Zone. Following the historical reactor meltdown of 1986, several laboratories were established in the surrounding area and began conducting various experiments. This led to a fictional second disaster in 2006 that mutated local plant and animal life and created phenomena known as anomalies. These strange, almost-supernatural occurrences cause valuable artifacts to appear, each containing unique and unexplainable properties. Stalkers come to the Zone in search of personal enrichment by recovering these artifacts, but they're not the only people who inhabit this irradiated area. Various factions exist within the Zone, from paramilitary organizations to groups of scientists seeking to understand the Zone, along with myriad bandits, religious fanatics, and outlaws who prefer to shoot first and ask questions later.
Stalker 2's opening moments mirror the introduction to 2007's Shadow of Chornobyl, as your character is driven to the perimeter of the Zone in the back of a flatbed truck. Unlike the original game--where you played a nameless, amnesiac Stalker--you're cast as Skif, a young Stalker who's made his way into the Zone to conduct a covert experiment using a mysterious scanner and an even more mysterious artifact. After a brief tutorial introducing you to all that is weird and dangerous about the Zone, Skif is betrayed, robbed of all his gear, and wakes up to find a mutant dog gnawing at his toes.
From here, Stalker 2 is similar to the first game as, once again, you attempt to track down the person who betrayed you. Your journey leads you to various settlements where you'll tackle numerous jobs to trade for information. It doesn't take long before the branching narrative expands to more world-altering ramifications, though. There's a concerted effort to provide more narrative heft than the previous games, both in the main story and the plethora of side quests you'll venture out on. Information is typically disclosed during involved conversations with full voice acting--including immersive Ukranian VO--and a Bethesda-style dialogue system that gives you a number of ways to reply, even if you simply want to initiate combat. This isn't an RPG, so you won't attempt to guide conversations by passing skill checks. Instead, dialogue choices provide a sense of agency and still allow you to role-play the type of Stalker you want to be.
The writing is grounded but uneven at times and lacks nuance. It also tends to favor memorable moments as opposed to any particularly memorable characters. Yet I was always eager to see where the story was heading as I began to uncover the Zone's mysteries, solve some of its smaller conflicts, and navigate the politics of its differing factions. The choices you have to make are impactful, too, significantly altering events and how the world reacts to your decisions. Even after the end credits had rolled, I still questioned whether I made the right choices.
This dynamic unpredictability is also present in Stalker 2's side quests. Whether you've been asked to recover a missing shipment or track down and kill a group of mercenaries, these missions are rarely ever cut and dried. There's usually someone willing to make a deal, perhaps giving up someone else to save their own skin or offering to cut you in on a valuable stash only they know the location of. The question is, do you trust them? Do you even trust the person who gave you the initial quest in the first place? Everyone in Stalker is in it for themselves and there's little room for morality when most characters won't hesitate to stab you in the back and hang you out to dry.
While there's more breadth to the curated narrative in Stalker 2, its various systems are also still proficient at creating emergent stories for you to stumble upon and then engage with. At one point, my interest was piqued by the glowing embers of a campfire I could see through the open window of a nearby building. When I got close, those sitting inside were attacked by one of the Zone's mutated enemies. Suddenly, I found myself in the middle of a chaotic gunfight, battling side by side with these strangers to repel a grotesque threat. When the dust had settled, I traded gear with the survivors before going on my merry way. Later on, while traveling to my next quest objective, I was ambushed by a Bloodsucker--a tentacle-mouthed mutant that can turn invisible--and started running. In my panic, I encountered a vortex--one of the Zone's many anomalies--and quickly positioned myself between it and the Bloodsucker, luring the terrifying abnormality in until it was picked up and spat out again in a bloody clump.
These are just two examples of disparate systems interacting with each other in satisfying ways, but also point to how being aware of your surroundings and using your knowledge of the Zone can benefit you in combat. Ammunition is scarce, and purchasing it is expensive, so any opportunity to defeat an enemy without firing a shot is a significant advantage. You can try the stealth route to save on bullets by knifing enemies in the back, but I found this overly difficult. Your foes tend to be eagle-eyed, and their movement is unpredictable to the point where most of my attempts at espionage fell flat almost immediately. It's a positive that enemies don't follow heavily scripted paths, but not when they're so proficient at spotting you.
A well-placed headshot is generally lethal against humans, whereas body shots tend to feel like a waste of bullets with how many it takes to down someone. This infuses firefights with a palpable sense of danger, particularly early on. Ranged weapons feel suitably weighty, and managing the recoil of each one is the most pertinent challenge when it comes to landing accurate shots. This is easier said than done when you're under constant fire, leaning around corners to pick off a few enemies before dashing to another piece of cover to avoid the destructive blast of an incoming grenade. It lacks the fluidity and snappiness of most modern shooters, which is why combat can sometimes feel slightly archaic. But there's no denying that it's distinctly Stalker.
Acquiring a scoped weapon makes the process slightly easier, but there's still this throughline of desperation present in most firefights. Combat is consistently challenging and frenetic, which lends each kill a high degree of satisfaction. And much of this is down to how adept the human AI is at putting you under pressure. Bandits will flush you out with grenades, attempt to flank you, and push forward when you're applying bandages to prevent you from catching your breath. The AI still isn't perfect--sometimes needlessly exposing themselves, crouching behind cover that isn't there, or standing still to give you a free shot--but human enemies are competent, for the most part.
The same isn't true when it comes to Stalker 2's mutants. Aside from a couple of outliers, most have a repertoire consisting of either charging or leaping straight at you, highlighting your lack of movement options. There's no reliable way to dodge these attacks, but finding something elevated to stand on will confuse the AI long enough for you to pick them off as they run around in circles. This isn't fun, but it's effective and renders most mutant encounters a repetitive slog.
Stalker 2 also isn't without its fair share of technical issues. I encountered three crashes to desktop throughout my time playing, and in two separate side quests I got locked into conversations multiple times, forcing a full restart to escape. I could prevent one of these from happening again by loading an earlier save and skipping the objective for that specific character; otherwise he would initiate the bugged conversation every time I tried to leave the settlement. The other instance of this bug simply blocked me from being able to continue the side quest. I also ran into another pair of side quests where the item I had to acquire never materialized. One of these solved itself after a patch, so at least GSC is already on top of fixing some of these issues.
The other technical mishaps I encountered were related to the game's sound and visuals, such as objects and NPCs floating or clipping through the floor, enemies with no bodies, and a few instances of T-posing. On a few occasions, elements of the UI would disappear so I couldn't tell how much health or ammo I had left. Wall textures sometimes flickered incessantly. Gun sounds would occasionally not work, or I would hear a sound like rabid mutant dogs barking right next to me, except they were nowhere to be seen. There was also a moment where every time I looked down, the image would completely double itself. Fortunately, Stalker 2 does at least run well on my PC. I have a Ryzen 7 7800X3D and an RTX 3090 and achieved a consistent frame rate between 60 and 90fps with everything set to High. There were moments when it would dip lower in bustling settlements, and I could probably fiddle with the graphics setting to rectify this, but it was never egregious. At the time of publication, GSC Game World has released a large patch, indicating an intent to address some of the issues that may crop up.
Ultimately, Stalker 2's torrent of technical problems are frustrating because they hamper the game's oppressive atmosphere. This consists of brutalist Soviet architecture of its government buildings to the family homes hastily abandoned and weathered by years of neglect, where the paint is cracked and peeling off the walls, broken furniture is messily strewn about the place, and the windows are either boarded up or broken. The sound of gunfire in the distance is the only thing that breaks the silence as you traverse an open field, only for it to cut off as you receive a radio message warning of an incoming Emission. Now you're sprinting into the flooded basement of the nearest factory as the sky begins to turn red and violent lightning strikes hit the ground above your head. There's an enigmatic beauty to the Zone and an otherworldliness that derives from its anomalies. Whether it's a pulsating ball of energy or a poppy field that puts you into a deep sleep you'll never wake from, exploring this irradiated playspace is alluring, not least because it's so dangerous.
In an attempt to deepen this immersion, Stalker 2 adds a few survival mechanics, but they feel half-baked. Hunger, for instance, will accumulate over time and can impair your combat performance. I never let it get that far, though. It doesn't take long before you're drowning in bread and sausages to the point where you'll eat a few just to lower your encumbrance. As a result, the hunger system isn't something you'll ever think about, so it just feels superfluous. Sleeping is even more redundant. Getting a good night's rest will replenish your health, but you won't suffer the ill effects of sleep deprivation if you don't, so there were times when I would go days without touching a bed.
Artifacts occupy a similar space. Despite the game's tutorial stating that you're best off heading to a quiet place to test and figure out what each one does, they're still functionally the same as in previous games. Their effects boil down to buffing your resistances to things like radiation and bleeding, so they're not as interesting as the game's tooltips initially make them sound. The Zone's economy also dictates that their best use is as a sellable asset. Wear and tear causes your guns to constantly jam, while damaged armor provides less protection against the elements. The cost of repairing both is exorbitant--along with the prices for ammo and weapon upgrades--so artifacts represent one of the few ways to overcome this, thanks to their high value. If their benefits were more appealing, choosing whether to sell or not would be a tough decision. With the economy the way it is, that choice is essentially taken out of your hands.
Criticizing Stalker 2's technical issues is tough, simply because it's astounding that GSC managed to launch the game in the first place. Admittedly, this made it easier for me to overlook some of its irritating quirks, particularly when they weren't egregiously crashing the game. Yet even this might not have been the case if it also weren't an engrossing game. Stalker 2 is notably flawed in a few areas, yet these shortcomings tend to dissipate when a compelling, non-linear quest goes awry thanks to an unforeseen element forcing you into a frantic shootout. This unpredictability and the way its various systems interact to create anomalous stories sets Stalker 2 apart. Throw in a beguiling world and the fascinating mysteries hidden within, and it's difficult not to fall under its enticing spell.
Editor's note: This review briefly showed an 8 as its score due to a CMS error, but 7 is the intended score.
In Life is Strange: Double Exposure, Max once again feels only as interesting as the characters surrounding her, making her a driving force that isn't particularly compelling and a fairly flat protagonist. Even as the game explores her grief following the loss of Chloe (either via a painful fall-out or her death, depending upon your selection) and a new loss that occurs during Double Exposure's opening chapter, Deck Nine stumbles in giving these processes depth and emotional resonance.
Despite this weak thread, Double Exposure is, admittedly, a visually impressive game with some well-executed narrative beats, an interesting twist on gameplay, and some endearing characters. However, it ultimately feels too similar to its predecessor in a few frustrating ways and suffers from inconsistent story quality and writing; this makes for an overall experience that lacks a lot of depth and falls short.
Set a decade or so after the events of Life is Strange, Double Exposure follows Max--now an award-winning photographer--during her residency at Vermont's prestigious Caledon University. You soon learn that in the years between the first game and this new adventure, Max has suppressed her ability to time-travel, as she is now all too aware of the damage it can inflict. We are also quickly introduced to Max's two closest friends, the bold and charismatic poet Safi Llewellyn-Fayyad and meek geek-turned-astrophysicist Moses Murphy. Yet by the time the first chapter comes to a close, any sense of normalcy has been stripped away as we find Max thrust into a new traumatic situation: the sudden, violent death of one of Caledon University's most-beloved students.
Ever the detective, Max takes it upon herself to figure out what happened. This is largely prompted by her discovering a new power that gives her a decisive edge in getting to the bottom of things: the ability to warp between universes. Double Exposure, as its name slyly implies, sees Max venture back and forth between two in particular. In the first of these universes, the student who was killed remains dead, forcing Max to navigate both her own grief and how a sudden loss can shake a community. In the other, however, the character is miraculously alive, albeit still in grave danger. The process of crossing between these two dimensions is what drives much of Double Exposure's gameplay; Whenever Max hits a dead end in one universe, she is prompted to travel to the other, where she may find key pieces of information, important items, or ways to circumvent physical barriers that exist in the other realm.
The decision to add this mechanic rather than solely relying upon Max's ability to time travel is a good one; It's fun and changes things up just enough from the original Life is Strange while still feeling in line with Max's pre-existing power. However, her immediate use of it with next to no hesitation did feel a bit off, considering her acute awareness of the disaster her time-traveling wrought. Though the player is largely responsible for Max's actions and beliefs, this is a recurring issue in Double Exposure, as Max ultimately comes across as having no real convictions or personality outside of a fondness for delivering Gilmore Girls-esque pop culture quips.
Furthermore, this dimension-hopping feels far more inconsequential than Max's time-traveling in Life is Strange, as it essentially just allows Max to have conversations using supernaturally accrued knowledge and snoop around offices. Perhaps this then explains her leniency with it, though I'd argue the damage it does to the overall experience is more important than justifying her nonchalance.
Whereas the original game leaned a bit too hard into Degrassi-style melodrama, the stakes were much greater and tense situations were plentiful, ultimately making for a more compelling experience. Though Double Exposure has some stellar dramatic moments, a couple that hit home, and a few interesting twists, they are few and far between. And more frustratingly, there exist a few moments that should have been more dramatic, given the ongoing situation, but simply aren't.
Another factor that leads to this disconnect and the game's overall lack of passion, for lack of a better word, comes from the fact that Max's relationships with all of Double Exposure's characters--and even Caledon University a whole--feel distant.
Whereas Arcadia Bay felt like a home and its residents, part of a community, walking through Caledon University reminded me of visiting a college campus during the holidays: quiet and almost liminal. Though I enjoyed some of the campus' faculty members, particularly the creative non-fiction professor Gwen, interactions with her felt largely stilted and her story did not go anywhere particularly interesting.
The game's two romantic options, Amanda and Vinh, are forced and half-baked. While Amanda is a sweetheart, the quirky bartender ends up feeling more like someone who is merely around, as she doesn't have much of a role in the game and doesn't feel like someone Max is particularly drawn to. A lot of the time they spend together feels almost awkward, and some moments--such as Max suggesting she spend the night after a quick kiss--come off as bizarre given the majority of their interactions have involved Amanda being irritated at Max blowing her off, or her trying to give Max space to grieve. Vinh, on the other hand, plays a larger role in the narrative and does have his own vulnerabilities that are teased out through the game. But he is also essentially a frat bro who repeatedly hits on Max until you can choose to be endeared (or worn down) by him.
And despite being told Safi and Moses are close friends, you don't see her exhibit a deep connection to either of them. There are certain things you'd think she'd know about her companions and plenty of things you'd think they'd know about her, even outside of her tragic past and powers. This is made more disappointing because Safi and Moses are two of the game's most interesting characters. Safi in particular has a lot of personality, a compelling backstory, and plenty of connections to the game's major players; she ultimately drives the game forward which, while not a problem in itself, makes for yet another side character who completely overshadows Max. And I understand that part of this is intent, I really do. But it is frustrating, in a narrative-heavy, emotional game, to feel like I am controlling a vehicle rather than a character.
Another issue with Safi outshining Max is that, in many ways, it makes it entirely clear that Double Exposure is largely a retread of Life is Strange. It's a bit awkward, considering Deck Nine is developing the title rather than original studio Don't Nod. But even if I place that bit of distaste aside, it was strange as a player. I don't want to give away major plot points, but suffice to say that if I described in broad terms the plot to both games--relatively spoiler-free highlights being a school-based murder mystery, a looming storm, and an angsty female friend with issues and dead best friend shrouded in mystery--you'd be hard pressed to narrow down which Life is Strange I'm talking about.
The relationship that felt the most tangible and real to me, strangely enough, was one that was barely seen throughout the game and has caused some outrage from the original game's fans: Max's relationship with Chloe. You won't see much of this play out if you state that Chloe died in the first game--and to be honest, you still won't see much even if you select that she survived. That said, there was something that felt so real about the pair having drifted off, their trauma bond over enduring such a life-altering series of events proving not quite enough to keep two people with such drastically different wants and personalities together.
You see Chloe online on social media, even posting on occasion. She sends over the occasional text and checks in on you after seeing a troubling news report, proving that despite their differences, she will always care for Max. Whereas some found Chloe's lack of a place in Max's life somewhat insulting, I couldn't help but relate to that sort of bittersweet dynamic, having been in relationships like that before. Though she is not around, Chloe serves as a sort of shadow that hangs over Max, which is precisely what I'd expect.
Double Exposure also deserves praise for its visuals and motion-capture, both of which are improved from previous Life is Strange titles. Better lighting and motion-capture technology that is able to replicate micro-expressions beautifully make for a heightened sense of realism, and allow the game to convey greater emotion than its stiff predecessors. However, the studio makes the smart call to not lean too far into that realism, ultimately favoring the series’ tendency towards more stylized characters and high-saturation environments. Though I might not have loved much of the story, I was drawn into Double Exposure’s world through its art.
I also think--and I urge you to skip this paragraph if you wish to avoid larger spoilers!--that where Double Exposure leaves things and expands the wider Life is Strange universe makes for an exciting promise. In fact, it's so interesting--and pertinent to my overall feelings--that it feels important to bring up in spite of how hard I've tried to keep this all spoiler-free. In the same way that Remedy's Control made it clear that the events in Alan Wake, and Alan himself, are not these isolated forces, we see that sort of fun realization occur in this game as well. This also wonderfully harkens back to Life is Strange 2, which began to set up this premise. Though I wasn't thrilled to see "Max Caulfield will return" at the end of the game, the path that two other characters embark upon is compelling and makes me interested in a spin-off title following one or both of them. Suffice to say, I see the potential for a real Magneto-Xavier dynamic in the future, and I think that could be a fantastic place for the series to go.
And yet, potential for a more interesting story doesn't quite improve the overall experience Life is Strange: Double Exposure. There’s a part of me that wonders if going into the game with a greater fondness for the original would have made the experience more enjoyable. There’s another part of me that wonders if the opposite is true, and I’d have been better coming in without ever having experienced the first game. But as both a continuation and a separate title, Double Exposure seems to fall short. Though it offers some interesting narrative beats, great visuals, and a few endearing characters, it fails to deliver the personality, drama, or emotion it is utterly reliant upon.
Each new entry in the Dragon Age series is always transformative, so it's not uncommon for a fan to really love one of the entries but feel lukewarm about another. 2009's Origins played like a spiritual successor to 1998's Baldur's Gate, while its 2011 sequel took the series in a more third-person-action-game direction, and then 2014's Inquisition opted for gameplay that felt like a single-player MMO. If anything, the one constant to a Dragon Age game is that you can expect that each new game will be different from the last. At first, it looked like Dragon Age: The Veilguard was not going to surpass my enjoyment of past games, existing as no more than a safe return to form for developer BioWare instead of a bold step forward for the franchise. But inch by inch, The Veilguard has wormed its way into my Inquisition-loving heart. Is The Veilguard as complex and nuanced as past Dragon Age games? No, not at all. Instead, it delivers an action-packed romp through a fantastical setting with good friends.
The Veilguard leans into real-time action-based combat, building on the formulas already established and iterated on in Mass Effect Andromeda and Anthem to push Dragon Age toward something more frenetic. Utilizing a system of setups and detonations to pull off explosive combos, The Veilguard encourages you to lean into strategically utilizing weapon attacks and magical abilities to pull off deadly dance-like patterns. It's tricky to find the rhythm at first but figuring out the pattern rewards you with an incredible sense of flow. Large skill trees and three specializations per class let you curate the experience to your satisfaction, and I never grew tired of pulling off clutch counters and delivering severe magical beatdowns despite The Veilguard's massive story length and large assortment of optional side missions, most of which see you fighting even more enemies.
The mage is the one true outlier here. Early on, the class is easy enough to play, but as the story goes on, enemies get both more numerous and hardy. Your own attacks become grander and more explosive in response, leading to the screen filling with visual clutter. As a result, it can be frustratingly tricky to see the indicator for parries (which is already harder for the mage in comparison to the rogue and warrior), and oftentimes dulls the combat to a repetitive slog of flinging magical explosions, running away, locking back onto a target, and repeating--a step down from the far more satisfyingly strategic means by which the glass-cannon mage operated in past Dragon Age games.
It certainly doesn't help that The Veilguard's lock-on mechanic is awful if you distance yourself too far away from enemies, which is where you want to be if you're playing mage. It regularly unlocks from foes whenever they escape your vision by leaping, burrowing, or teleporting toward you to close the distance you're creating--the exact moments when lock-on mechanics are most useful for a glass-cannon class. This means a great deal of your time in a fight as a mage is spent accidentally firing off an attack at nothing, trying to dodge an attack you can hear but can't necessarily see, or scanning the arena in search of your foe. This can lead to frustrating deaths, especially on higher difficulties or against bosses who summon minions to help them.
Worse, it feels like BioWare has even acknowledged that the mage struggles in comparison to the other two classes, giving it an ability to "switch" styles from a spell-slinging staff to an arcane dagger for close quarters, and although the dagger does handle a lot better (especially if you opt for the aforementioned spellblade specialty), it's still clunky to aim and use.
Most of The Veilguard's missions loop through the same formula of talking to an NPC, going somewhere, and fighting a lot of enemies. That can get repetitive when you're also dealing with the obtuse handling of the mage, but it remains consistently enjoyable with the more melee-oriented rogue and warrior that can easily lean into the parry and sword combos and experiment with how they're cutting through the different legions of enemies.
Combat isn't the only way Rook engages with the world; it's just the tool they use most often. The conversational pillar of The Veilguard is a rewarding cat-and-mouse game of building alliances, exploring boundaries, unearthing trauma, and grasping at secrets. Exploring each locale gifts you wonderful visuals and captivating lore that draws you into the world--even if you opt for mage, there's still fun to be had. I haven't run into any major story missions that can be resolved without fighting--there doesn't seem to be anything like Inquisition's delightful Wicked Eyes and Wicked Hearts mission--but your choices carry narrative weight throughout. One choice early on has drastic consequences for two of Rook's allies as well as their homes (which can be Rook's home, too, depending on which faction they pick at character creation), determining which optional questlines they can pursue in the second act. The effects of that choice are felt for a long time, and even if not every decision carries the same level of importance, it reinforces the notion that any one choice can alter the immediate direction of the story and have unforeseen longer-term consequences. I love an RPG that gets me to put the controller down and pace back-and-forth for several minutes to mull over a choice, and The Veilguard delivers on that, even if not as regularly as past Dragon Age games.
The story itself follows the titular Veilguard, which is led by your playable character, Rook, and tasked with stopping the machinations of the Dread Wolf--believed to be an ancient elven god of trickery, responsible for leading a rebellion and sealing away the other, more evil elven gods. Things don't go quite as planned during your first mission, leading to the once-sealed elven gods escaping their prison and seeking world domination, a threat more severe than the one the Dread Wolf posed. The story follows the typical structure of a BioWare RPG: recruit a team, befriend the team, fight some baddies, do some missions to increase your team's loyalty to you, get your smooches in, work step-by-step to reach the big bad. It's familiar but in a nostalgic and comforting way--it's a nice place to return to after what felt like an eternity away.
The anthology nature of Dragon Age means there's a new hero at the helm at each of these games, and that hurts The Veilguard more than the others. Rook is boring and, even worse, feels out of place in the story told in The Veilguard. Previous Dragon Age games have made tremendous arguments for why the player character is the one burdened with the responsibility of stopping the evil of their respective games, with Inquisition's Inquisitor even leaning into the "chosen one" trope, wielding a power never-before-seen that made them uniquely qualified for the threat at hand. No such considerations are made for Rook beyond the initial leader of the Veilguard saying that it has to be Rook and they're the best one for the job, despite all evidence to the contrary. I've spent most of my time with the game wondering why I'm even playing as Rook, especially when so much of The Veilguard's story feels like a continuation of the Inquisitor's tale.
Beyond feeling entirely out of place in comparison to the rest of the Veilguard, Rook feels somewhat aimless relative to their party companions, with not much in the way of an arc to pull the player in. Early into the adventure, there's a poignant moment where the Dread Wolf asks Rook why they feel they're ideal to lead the charge against the elven gods, and it feels telling that none of your available responses are especially good or convincing. Rook's situation becomes all the more perplexing as the game goes on and party members or important NPCs put tremendous stakes into Rook's opinions. It doesn't make much sense. Even if you argue Rook is a tool to make the game more approachable to newcomers to the franchise--as they carry no history you have to remember from a past game--it doesn't change the fact that The Veilguard's story doesn't seem to make a compelling argument for why this one person is important to Team Veilguard.
Even if Rook's position in the story is suspect, the level of customization options available to build them is fantastic. The numerous options in the character creator do tend to favor the more humanoid humans, elves, and dwarves, but I'm impressed by how much control you have over your appearance, regardless of their ancestry or gender. Your choice of background, ancestry, class, and gender can inform how your Rook engages in roleplay by unlocking unique conversation options, too. This is the best character creator I've ever used in a single-player RPG, and I'm eager to see how the different choices you make for Rook at the start can inform key moments in the story in multiple playthroughs.
The heroes who Rook aligns themselves with all present aspects of the culture or lore of Dragon Age that we've either never seen before or previously thought to be impossible. I found Harding's story deeply intriguing given the power she unlocks in the game's early hours, and uncovering the past about Bellara and Neve or learning more about the unique allies accompanying Davrin and Lucanis was a frequent narrative treat that left me eager to return to the Lighthouse hub between missions to talk (and flirt) with the colorful collection of heroes that evolved into somewhat of an oddball family. This isn't my favorite RPG party, but The Veilguard reminds you why BioWare is held as one of the undisputed kings of making party-focused RPGs. This is an incredible group of characters.
Like past Dragon Age games, The Veilguard's story is primarily choice-driven, and the cast of NPCs squirm their way into your heart one conversational consequence at a time. Crucial decisions that influence the companions' fluctuating opinion of the protagonist don't seem to pop up in The Veilguard as much as in past games, as I found it too easy to game the system to keep everyone happy over the long haul, but the RPG answers this shortcoming by making the fluctuating nature of the party makeup more prominent than previously. Your decisions can see your favorite characters needing to take a break from the action (and Rook) regardless of their overall perception of the protagonist, and there are numerous missions that force you to take a specific team member along, restricting how you build your party. In this way, The Veilguard injects strategy and reactivity into its combat, as your perfect team might not be available to you depending on the choices you've made during roleplay. It's very cool.
Thanks to The Veilguard's art direction, the environments look gorgeous. The game is filled with tantalizing visuals, ranging from artifact-filled forests of verdant greens and golden glows to canal-dominated cities of deep blues and evocative purples. This is an incredible-looking game, even during moments when it's trying to be scary. The music is tragically hit-or-miss, sometimes crescendoing to a level that manages to lend an important moment some much-needed gravitas but more often than not the music is drowned out by the combat or lacking enough emotional punch to be even noticed.
All said, none of my complaints detract from the fact that The Veilguard is a mostly sound game that works when you're playing as a class that can take advantage of its combat. I haven't run into any glitches or game-breaking bugs. No side quest feels too obtrusive or too fetch quest-y. And now that I've distanced myself from the mage, each combat encounter is snappy and avoids feeling too tedious or frustrating. The Veilguard feels like BioWare making a good BioWare game again, and that in itself makes me extraordinarily happy.
You really can't understate how historically important Dragon Quest III is. This is not just any JRPG--to players in Japan, it's the defining JRPG, a game that set sales records and truly made Dragon Quest an inextricable part of Japanese pop culture. To this day, it's recognized and referenced in all manner of media, and its wild success is the subject of both nostalgic fascination and urban legends.
With such a pedigree behind it, it's no surprise that Square Enix has seen fit to re-release Dragon Quest III numerous times, with this HD-2D Remake edition being the latest--and also the most lavish--to date. Logic dictates that a game like this deserves a red-carpet treatment. But unlike Final Fantasy, which is no stranger to changing things up in its recent sequels and remakes, the old-fashioned elements of Dragon Quest's gameplay remain untouched no matter what.
Of course, the biggest deal about this remake--which its very title proudly proclaims--is the use of Square Enix's HD-2D visual style. Previous HD-2D games like Octopath Traveler, Triangle Strategy, and the Live A Live remake have established a strong visual identity, using 2D sprites, 3D backgrounds, and scrolling and perspective tricks to create an ornate and cinematic style that makes them stand out.
Dragon Quest III uses these visuals to bring its established locales to life. The cities and palaces are filled with details that mirror their real-world inspirations. Dungeons and caves are filled with musty corridors, scurrying critters, and shining torchlights. Shrines are covered with ornate decorations that hint at long-forgotten secrets. Despite all of this, however, the visuals do disappoint in some ways: Sprite animation is limited outside of the enemies you face in combat, the camera can glitch out in spots, and on the Switch version, some more graphically intense locations can make the game's framerate start to chug. Still, it'd be very difficult to argue that Dragon Quest III has ever looked better than this.
The plot is largely unchanged from DQIII's original release: It's the sort of simple yarn that many early RPGs spun, complete with an evil overlord, a destined hero, and his/her scrappy, custom-built party. It's pretty by-the-numbers stuff, with most plot developments being glorified fetch quests that allow you to move on to the next key location. This remake does add some extra flair to the story, though, not only through lively, humorous localization but also new flashbacks showing the journey of the hero-character's father, the warrior Ortega. It's pretty cliched by modern standards, sure, but at least it's fun to read--and there's still the one big twist that was mindblowing when the game first released for first-time players to look forward to.
While the various re-releases of Dragon Quest III have added lots of improvements and extras over the years--and this remake carries quite a few of those over--the core gameplay has largely remained the same too. You've still got all of the hallmarks of classic Dragon Quest: turn-based battles, rigid character classes that learn skills at set levels, careful item management, and hazardous treks over the world map between locations. (Thankfully, more convenient fast travel with Chimaera Wings and Zoom is one of the small quality-of-life improvements.)
So what are the major enhancements to gameplay? Perhaps the biggest is the addition of a new character class. Aside from your usual Warriors, Priests, Merchants, and Gadabouts (who are still intentionally terrible), you've got the new Monster Wrangler class that uses a variety of offensive, defensive, and support skills they've learned from monsters. They also supplement another big addition: finding and recruiting monsters to use in monster-battle arenas for money and prizes. Not only does the Monster Wrangler have a much easier time obtaining these critters; they also get strength and ability boosts based on how many they've managed to get to join.
Another noteworthy addition is spots on the overworld map that contain items and hidden locations. Places of interest in the world of DQIII tend to be spread pretty far apart, so normally there's not a good reason to go meandering unless you want to grind for levels. The remake adds more incentive to get out and explore the world by spreading lots of little secrets and goodies all over the place. See some little sparkly spots on the map? If you go to inspect them, you're bound to find some items--usually consumables and old gear to pawn for cash, but sometimes you'll find some amazing weapons and armor that seem levels beyond what you should have. Conspicuously odd-looking spots on the overworld map might reveal an enclave with treasure chests, recruitable monsters, and maybe even a friendly NPC. Not only do these additions make walking through the overworld more enjoyable, but they also help you level up without grinding, since you're more naturally going to be hitting enemy encounters along the way.
There are plenty of other welcome changes--quest markers making your next goal more obvious, auto-heals on leveling up, more unique abilities for otherwise straightforward classes like Warrior, and so on. These sorts of additions take a different approach from other remakes like the recent Romancing SaGa 2: They build on the foundation of Dragon Quest III rather than trying to change and modernize key gameplay elements. From the standpoint of keeping traditional Dragon Quest elements faithful, it does a good job, but there are downsides, particularly in combat. You won't be seeing some of the fun elements of later Dragon Quests, like the tension meter, in DQIII Remake. True to its 8-bit roots, it's about as basic as turn-based combat can get. And at points, that simplicity can make things drag. Unless you've got a particularly weird party composition (or you upped the difficulty), you can use AI autobattle settings for a good chunk of the early to mid game and mostly cruise along. Since class growth and skills are predetermined, there's not much to experiment with for characters, either--until roughly the halfway point, when you get the ability to change classes (augmenting your existing skills with those of a different class) and enemy attack patterns get significantly trickier.
That's not to say that there's no customizability in character-building: besides the aforementioned class-changing and stat-boost seeds to munch on, there's a personality system that affects each character's stat growth. You can change personality types by reading books or equipping special accessories. This element has existed since the original release, and it's still a mess even now: A lot of the personality types actually slow overall stat growth, reducing many stat gains in favor of a small boost to one or two areas. You also can't easily see what a personality type actually affects without either wading through a bunch of menus to your info handbook or looking it up online, making it difficult to know at a glance if the personality fits the character you're trying to build. And a lot of the personality stat adjustments just don't make sense--why does a Narcissist get an agility boost while an Idealist's luck growth is really bad? I've never liked this system, and I think that this would have been a good opportunity to overhaul it, but alas.
Dragon Quest III HD-2D isn't trying to fundamentally reinvent itself: It wants to present a genre-defining classic to the world in a great-looking modern package, to both inspire nostalgia in fans and show the world why this game is beloved. And it succeeds at that pretty well: It looks great, it's faithful to the original's gameplay (with some nice little quality-of-life enhancements), and the new additions add a bit of extra flavor. Its stubborn clinging to tradition means some flaws carry over, but when the overall package is this pretty, polished, and pleasant, it's hard to hold those against it for long.
In Slay the Princess, however, death is only the beginning: the start of a time loop that nearly always resolves in mutually-assured destruction. But despite the horrors you endure and the promise of death--repeatedly and oftentimes brutally--the game begins with a small, strange note: This is a love story. And as a love story, a horrific visual novel, and a work of narrative-driven psychological fiction, Slay the Princess is remarkable. The Pristine Cut further polishes this gem of a game, adding more depth and replayability to an already-brilliant title that is abundant with introspection, poetic (and often humorous) writing, stellar voice acting, and memorable art and music. Though there are still a few rough spots--namely some of its audio mixing and its UX design on consoles--Slay the Princess is a beautiful experience, brimming with emotion and cleverness.
The premise is simple enough and explained by both its name and its exposition: "You're on a path in the woods, and at the end of that path, is a cabin. And in the basement of that cabin is a princess. You're here to slay her." Naturally, this raises a lot of questions: Why does she need to die? Why am I the one killing her? What is the motive of the person instructing you to do this? As the protagonist's primary, guiding voice, it is up to you to explore the dozen or so prompts that emerge as each new piece of information is brought to light. Your every response and action--or lack thereof--determines and alters the path laid before the hero, as well as the many other voices that join you in guiding him as successive loops unfold.
If you're the type to ask a lot of questions or second-guess yourself, The Paranoid or Skeptic might emerge, altering the choices you have and your own perception of what is happening. On the other hand, a self-assured approach might give way to the voice of The Stubborn or perhaps even The Smitten. As your personality, role, and beliefs are solidified, the form of the damsel tucked away in the basement is altered, as well. All of these factors compile and build across a handful of acts, culminating in the end of one story and the progression of a deeper narrative lurking just below the surface.
This process of choosing new paths, watching abandoned ones crumble away, and stumbling into variants of the places, voices, and parties involved is fascinating. The breadth of the branching narrative is incredibly impressive, as you explore seemingly endless situations and events that range anywhere from surreal and horrific to heartbreaking and tender. I was also consistently impressed by how the game's responses seemed to perfectly predict my own, giving voice to nearly every ethically-motivated, practical, inquiring, or cheeky remark that resided in my own head. The Pristine Cut only adds to all these feats, giving players a slew of new scenarios and endings that add even more replayability and depth.
Outside of this fascinating premise, however, much of what makes Slay the Princess so mesmerizing boils down to two things: stupendous writing and impressive performances by two voice actors with frankly incredible capabilities and range.
Lead writer Tony Howard-Arias and Abby Howard, the game's lead artist and assistant writer, work together to create a work that is vivid, poetic, clever, introspective, and, perhaps most shockingly, funny. The voices in your head are great at adding levity to dark situations (The Cheated, in particular, brings an annoyed angst that is always good for a laugh), while multiple other scenarios lead to absurd and funny resolutions that are further elevated by the game's art, which dramatically changes based on the writing's overall tone.
But in the moments where tenderness is placed front and center, or moments of deep introspection, Howard-Arias proves himself extremely capable of moving the reader and finding ways to turn a surreal experience into something relatable and reflective. It's difficult to broach some of these moments, as they are best left for players to discover, and I've already revealed arguably more than I'd want any new player to know about the game, but there are a lot of parts of the game--especially in its larger narrative--that moved me.
Another duo that brings a lot to the game are voice actors Jonathan Sims and Nichole Goodnight, who--while only voicing a total of three independent characters--create upwards of a dozen different voices for them. Regardless of if Sims is voicing the more straight-laced yet exasperated Narrator, or any of the hero's several personas, he delivers a consistently fantastic performance. He is able to perfectly capture the emotion behind the fast-talking, curse-slinging The Cheated, the Robert Smith-esque The Cold, and the boisterous, lovestruck The Smitten, making it feel as if a whole ensemble has come together to guide the hero. Similarly, Goodnight is able to bring terror, devotion, pain, ferociousness, disgust, animosity, and utter detachment to The Princess, creating a damsel you can't help but develop complicated feelings for.
I would also be remiss to not bring up the game's Foley effects, as well. Slay the Princess wouldn't work nearly as well without the gut-wrenching sounds of ripping flesh, the cracking of bones, the rattle of draped chains and butcher's hooks, and much, much more.
The game's music--and the strategic use of cutting it to intensify a few, select scenarios--also serve to create atmosphere and environment; I'm not exaggerating when I say that each track is fantastic. The delicate piano of "The Princess" is haunting yet heartfelt and serves as a repeated motif throughout the game, such as in one of The Pristine Cut's new tracks, "Rhythm of the Flesh," which leans hard into an intense horror sound. "The Apotheosis" is another standout track, with its operatic backing vocals and an almost industrial sound. "A Kiss From a Thorn" tugs at the heartstrings, causing emotions to swell as The Narrator reluctantly describes the ensuing scenario: "If history itself were not about to end, historians would document this moment for the rest of time. Musicians would write era-defining ballads, and great artists would expend entire lifetimes trying to merely capture the spark you hold right now.”
The game's art is another impressive feat, as it is all gorgeous, ever-shifting, and entirely hand-drawn. It’s almost unfinished, frenetic quality, and the fact that it is entirely in greyscale, works extremely well within the context of the game, as it reflects and amplifies The Hero's overall psyche and allows for Howard to do some create more experimental works that might not translate as well if converted into traditional graphics.
But while this decision works, there are a few others that feel a bit reflective of limited resources that could use some slight improvements. Though Goodnight does a fantastic job voicing The Princess, at times the audio mixing felt a bit off, with her more booming lines sounding a bit blown out while others feel almost layered atop the rest of the game rather than mixed in. Additionally, the UX could use a bit of work on console. When I first played Slay the Princess on PC, I had zero qualms with the user interface. However, in playing The Pristine Cut on PS5, I realized the experience doesn't translate quite as well. It was a bit hard to keep track of what I was currently hovering over and wading through the game's countless dialogue options was overwhelming at times.
My first inclination is to figure out who everyone is, from the inmates lined up outside to the prison guards inspecting the now-empty cells. Some first names are uttered in dialogue or scribbled on the side of the cell block in graffiti. Surnames can be found in formal letters and employee logs. Now it's a matter of putting names to faces, repeating conversations I've already had or looking through my notes to see who's talking to or about who, perusing an obscured note in the boss's office, and rummaging through all of the inmate's belongings. Once I know who everyone is and in which cell each prisoner resides, I just have to figure out how one of them masterminded a daring escape.
Much like its predecessor, The Rise of the Golden Idol presents you with what is essentially a diorama of a moment in time--typically taken at the precise second, or in the immediate aftermath, of a crime. It's up to you to deduce what exactly happened by pointing and clicking through all of the available evidence to figure out--among other things--who was involved, which items are incriminating, and what the exact sequence of events was. Whereas 2022's The Case of the Golden Idol revolved around a slew of murders related to the eponymous Idol, the kill count in this sequel is decidedly lower. There are still more than a few dead bodies amongst its 20 cases, but you're also tasked with unraveling the events behind prison escapes, experimental lab tests, and the backstage chaos of a talent show gone awry.
Rise of the Golden Idol picks up 200 years after the events of the first game, as the grisly history of the Golden Idol follows the artifact from the 18th century to the semi-modern setting of the 1970s. Once again, you're cast as an observer of these strange cases; an omnipresent force given license to freely explore each tableau at your own pace, burrowing into people's pockets, opening any door, and using logic to piece together the lurid events of its interconnected story.
Similarly to the first game--and contemporaries such as The Return of the Obra Dinn and Shadows of Doubt--The Rise of the Golden Idol doesn't hold your hand. It quickly teaches you to think for yourself as you embark on solving its many mysteries across five distinct chapters. There's a built-in hint system, but it's not designed to simply tell you the solution. Instead, it's a tool to push you in the right direction, letting you decide if you want it to ask you a leading question, provide further guidance, or give you a direct hint. Outside of this, you're on your own. There's an element of trial and error involved at times, and it's possible to brute force your way to some solutions, but for the most part, only deductive reasoning will lead to the right answers.
There's still nothing else quite like The Case of the Golden Idol's unique style of crime-solving, yet that doesn't mean The Rise of the Golden Idol rests on the laurels established by its predecessor, either. The interface has been reworked to make the puzzle-solving much more streamlined. Keywords--like names, items, locations, and verbs--are now automatically added to your veritable phrasebook, saving you from having to click on each one individually. The only downside is that, with so many recurring characters, it feels redundant having to re-discover everyone's names again when they appear in new cases, even if the process is simpler.
Another UI improvement means you no longer need to constantly switch between exploring a scene and using the old "thinking" mode, in which you would transition to a different screen to drag and drop words into blank spaces in order to solve each crime. You still need to complete these fill-in-the-blank statements--"blank and blank discovered the body of blank," for example--and ascertain other information, such as who won what item at an auction or which noise agitated which exotic bird. But now these statements appear as moveable pop-out windows, letting you observe the scene and surmise everything that happened simultaneously. It's a much more intuitive way to piece everything together and makes the process of cross-referencing details a lot easier. There's even a quality-of-life toggle to minimize every window when the screen gets too cluttered.
The Rise of the Golden Idol's drastic shift in setting makes for a notable difference in the sorts of crimes you'll be investigating, too. Not to mention some of the methods used to solve them. In one case, you need to match fingerprints to the people they belong to and then use this information to determine which characters touched a specific piece of equipment. Later on, a different case sees you investigating a dead body in a zoo, while another involves drugs on the set of a beachside photo shoot.
The sorts of characters you'll meet are also differentiated. While the first game dealt with aristocrats, a clandestine cult, and other period-appropriate figures, Rise of the Golden Idol features corporate profiteers, middle managers, and an altogether different kind of cult selling itself on achieving enlightenment. I won't spoil the story with too many details, but one of the key themes focuses on the folly of human hubris--something that's all too relatable today. All of this goes a long way toward making each vignette feel fresh and unlike anything found in the previous game.
There are a few cases that just didn't click with me, however, mainly due to the absence of murder--or any sort of criminal wrongdoing, really. These scenarios usually provide a tidbit of narrative to keep things moving but are otherwise unremarkable because the stakes are so low. The "Aha!" moment that occurs when you crack a case isn't nearly as satisfying when you've simply figured out the path a block of ice took rolling down a hill as opposed to figuring out who killed another human being. I appreciate the added levity these cases typically provide, but they would feel like filler if not for the pertinent information each one tends to add to the overall story.
Fortunately, the underwhelming cases are firmly in the minority. The menagerie of engaging scenarios quickly grows more complex as additional characters are introduced--usually with nebulous motives--and unrelated clues are mixed in to throw you off the scent. By virtue of being a sequel, The Rise of the Golden Idol was never going to feel as surprising as its predecessor, but it builds on those foundations with even more intricate puzzles, forcing you to think outside the box. Whether you're using images and colors to decipher a coded message or rewatching a video over and over again to figure out the secret meaning hidden within a dancer's movements, no two cases are the same.
The environments themselves also contain crucial details that aren't necessarily marked as clues, yet are imperative to find if you want to piece the entire jigsaw together. For instance, a band-aid on someone's finger might reveal who took a photograph, while the color of a model's lipstick could point to their identity. Each case may initially seem disparate, too, but like the red threads on a detective's corkboard, connections eventually begin to reveal themselves as you uncover the overarching narrative unifying them all.
This brings us to another new feature that crops up at the end of each chapter. Here, you're tasked with completing a new statement that summarizes everything that happened in the underlying story during the most recent batch of cases. With such a tangled web of mysteries, it would be easy to feel lost or overlook important details without this--as was the case in the first game. But this prevents that from happening by tasking you with fully analyzing everything that just happened, making the story much more cohesive and easy to follow.
A few underwhelming cases do little to dampen The Rise of the Golden Idol's unmistakable quality. This is a worthy successor to one of 2022's best games, putting a fresh spin on its singular concept with another collection of challenging and inventive puzzles. With a compelling story tying it all together and smart changes to its interface, Rise of the Golden Idol is everything you could ask for from a sequel; it's an excellent continuation of a singular idea, and there's already more on the way. Armchair sleuths are eating well.
After 20 years of tie-in games made mainly in one specific shape, players have been conditioned to know what to expect when they see the word Lego at the front of a game's title. Lego Horizon Adventures, however, diverges from some of what that naming convention may conjure in one's mind. It's not a stark departure from the dozens of games that precede it, but Lego Horizon Adventures alters the formula in a few noticeable ways. In the process, it cleverly reinvents its universe for a new base of players, though it struggles to build on its own revised formula consistently.
Despite using a zoomed-out third-person perspective familiar to Lego game players, Lego Horizon Adventures is a far more cinematic Lego game. This might not come as much of a surprise, however, considering how PlayStation has defined its brand by chasing Hollywood for the past 15 years. Gone are several Lego-game tropes, such as unlocking dozens of characters, or replaying levels with those characters to solve previously unapproachable puzzles. In fact, you'll hardly solve puzzles at all, save for a few very light platforming puzzles. Though you'll collect Lego studs to spend on rewards in-game, you won't be chasing collectibles like mini-kits or hidden items. Lego Horizon Adventures is instead a linear action-adventure game.
That has both advantages and disadvantages. On the brighter side, the game looks incredible. Lego Horizon ditches the series' typical style of brickifying only the playable area and giving the rest of the landscape, like backgrounds and foregrounds, a more lifelike look. In this game, everything is Lego bricks. It's somewhat subtle, but once I noticed that change, it partly helped explain how pretty it all is. By presenting a singular style, it feels like a real Lego set come to life in a way other games of this sort have never offered.
That design tweak, combined with similarly remarkable lighting to that which made Horizon Forbidden West such a visually striking PS5 title, makes this the best-looking standalone Lego game ever made. It's on par with Epic's Lego Fortnite in terms of dazzling visuals, which makes sense considering they're both made in Unreal Engine 5. Colors spill out of the screen in every frame and provide an intended youthful spirit reminiscent of PlayStation's other kid-friendly games like Astro Bot, Ratchet and Clank, and Sackboy: A Big Adventure.
Rather than retell the Horizon story in brick form, Lego Horizon acts like a reimagined version of that saga, remixing the story beats of Horizon: Zero Dawn specifically and presenting it in a kid-friendlier package that plays out like a Pixar or Dreamworks movie. The story isn't so adult to begin with, but here, it localizes the drama a bit more. Whereas Zero Dawn is about climate change and corporate meddling on a global scale, Lego Aloy and her pals are now concerned more with their village, and some of the themes are made more approachable for kids.
Much of the original game's cast reprise their roles in Lego Horizon Adventures, adding a sense of continuity while also altering them in ways that are rewarding for players and seem like fun for their respective actors. The series' main faces are all here, turned into amusing caricatures, and four of them are playable before long, with all of them dishing out frequent jokes. Aloy expresses a can-do spirit that is lighter in tone than how she comes across in her typical adventures. She's always a go-getter, but here, the stakes are purposely lowered to be less stressful or all-consuming while keeping the story adventurous and exciting for the game's younger players.
Other characters are similarly remixed for laughs. Erend, Aloy's close ally, becomes a rather lumbering oaf eager to help his friends, but more driven to uncover a mythical Donut Hoard, for example. Rost acts as both a character and narrator, and the game usually leans on him when it's breaking the fourth wall, as it often does, to crack jokes about video game tropes, such as why each level's end reward of a gold brick is needed in the first place.
If the mainline Horizon games are light RPGs, Lego Horizon is Baby's First RPG. Each character has a lengthy skill tree, but these skills are unlocked automatically as you level up, and in an order you can't influence. Characters do level separately, meaning you can go all in on a main character or spread your time across multiple heroes, though depending on which of the game's several welcome difficulties you're on, only the former strategy is viable--even for a kids game, you'll want to gain at least several of the health buffs in a hero's predefined skill tree.
Lego Horizon Adventures uses the traditional drop-in/drop-out co-op system of other Lego games. It even improves it in one long overdue way: online co-op, which the typical Lego games have lacked for so long, is available. Once the game's foursome of playable heroes is unlocked, each player can be whomever they'd like, so long as they aren't duplicates of their co-op buddy. Further promoting the lightest of RPG elements, characters play slightly differently, too. Naturally, Aloy fires arrows, while Erend smashes enemies with a hefty warhammer, for example. With this, a pair of players can cement strengths and hide weaknesses, teaching players to work as a team.
Throughout each level, you'll find special weapons with finite uses, giving you the advantage over the hulking machines and cultists you'll face. These weapons are consistently fun and do very well to give you a combat advantage. The Hot Dog Cart becomes a stationary mortar, lobbing explosive franks at enemies scattered across a combat area, while character-specific weapons, such as a fire bow for Aloy, call back to the mainline games and prove incredibly useful in this game, too. My favorite is a Lego brick remover, seen elsewhere as the orange tool you sometimes receive inside newly opened Lego sets. In the game, it works as a cartoonishly effective mallet, removing even the biggest enemies' health bars by a large portion.
Lego Horizon also carries over Zero Dawn's introduction of focus-based combat, in which you scan enemy machines for weak points, and then strike those areas for critical hits. You won't be scrapping these animal-shaped machines for crafting parts, but in a simple manner of holding and aiming your attack button, you'll highlight these weak spots in a way that comfortably translates the typical mechanics of the series. It's a nice touch, and an on-screen arrow will aid younger players so they can handle it well and in short order.
Exploring the game's 20+ levels, it's clear similar considerations have been made elsewhere. Approaching a zipline will automatically send you sliding down it, and climbing the (yellow, of course) handholds on rock walls requires only pointing the left stick toward where you want to go next. These make levels easier to move through by demanding fewer button presses and less sizing up of a 3D space. Though some traditional platforming involving misdirected or mistimed jumps can still occur, it's usually the case that the game's camera and presentation work with you, not against you. I beat the game with my five-year-old daughter--admittedly, she's been playing games for a while already, but here, she often led me through missions because they flow so naturally that she rarely needed my help outside of combat.
However, it's also the flow of these levels that chiefly illustrates the game's shortcomings, particularly how it ditched some traditional Lego elements that would have made missions feel more replayable and interesting. Each of the game's levels unfolds on one of four biomes, but while they look wonderful, they largely all feel the same. You'll move from light smash-'em-up sections where you're collecting studs--far fewer than usual Lego games, mind you, given how much of the world isn't destructible--and combat zones that block you from advancing until all enemies have been defeated. Most levels end with you rescuing kidnapped villagers or destroying the polluting machinery belonging to the game's Big Bad, and both of these outcomes are merely cutscenes after a chaotic battle sequence. As a result, it quickly becomes difficult to tell any two levels apart beyond what colors the environment may be.
Combat evolves well thanks to characters earning new skills, finding new super weapons, and the game's always-evolving list of enemies. But the act of moving from A to B feels the same each time, and there aren't nearly enough disruptions to this format. In the place of other Lego games' plethora of characters with unique puzzle-solving abilities, Lego Horizon invites replayability only in the form of boss hunts--extra-hard machines that weren't present earlier in the campaign--and a game-long side project to beautify Mother's Heart, the village that acts as a hub world between levels.
Completing challenges and beating levels unlocks gold bricks, which open up new areas of Mother's Heart to customize. The game's long list of customization options includes styles faithful to Horizon's world, like a feasting table for NPCs to gather at and eat together, as well as many silly options too, like a roller coaster, popcorn stand, and, of course, a donut shop for the village's most pastry-obsessed warrior. The game even pulls in collections from other Lego brands like Lego City and Ninjago, allowing you to create distinct zones within the hub, or mix and match to your heart's desire.
This aspect of the game is, in itself, a wonderful and child-like touch that promotes creativity and ownership of a play space, like hanging posters in a bedroom or displaying toys on a shelf. Many attractions, such as an obstacle course and different thrill rides, are even interactive, if only by way of a one-off animation you perform at each of them. But the hub world's customization being tied to challenges that will largely happen post-campaign means it's less fun, as the game then devolves into a checklist of things to do not unlike the mainline series does at times, too.
As an onboarding to the RPG genre, young players may grapple with aspects of games that will be novel to them, like skill trees, character builds, and endgame bosses, but a checklist of things to do almost feels cynical, as though it's ingraining in its inexperienced players' minds the idea that such busy work is foundational to the genre or medium. It doesn't have to be, and even previous Lego games, as formulaic as they certainly are in their own ways, diversify enough from IP to IP by building their puzzles around the specific worlds and characters they portray.
Still, that only makes Lego Horizon Adventures a flawed game, not a bad one. Its story reshapes an adult plot for a younger audience seamlessly, with a strong sense of humor that kids will adore. Like a lot of content aimed at families, my strongest sense of joy is found not in how I experience Lego Horizon but in watching my kids become immersed in it. Levels often feel repetitive, but combat is exciting and tactical enough to teach depth and ask players to consider their approach, even as Aloy may be dressed up like a corn cob, a firefighter, or a pug. It's that blend of child-like style and mechanical substance that makes Lego Horizon Adventures a lovely game to play for parent and child pairings, though it's also just neat to see these usually self-serious characters put through a washing machine loaded with crayons.
There's always been something endearing about Metal Slug. While its contemporaries like Contra ratcheted up the aliens and body horror, Metal Slug instead leaned hard into comedy, mixing its signature run-and-gun action with comically overbuilt machines, cartoonish villains, and a silly cast of action-hero cliches.
While there have been a few spin-offs over the years, Metal Slug Tactics is the series' first foray into turn-based strategy, and it comes with a roguelike twist. It's a mostly successful mission thanks to clever gameplay and maintaining the silly charm the series is known for, though some outdated tropes and too much of your success being outside of your tactical control keep this operation from being a total victory.
Tactics moves the long-running sidescroller onto an isometric grid, and the pixel art-inspired models do a great job capturing the look and feel the series is known for. Everything from the iconic POWs to the titular Metal Slug tanks themselves feel exactly like the original series translated to 3D. The isometric battlegrounds are littered with varied terrain, buildings, foliage, and other scenic elements that feel right at home, and bosses are exactly the kind of over-engineered machinery you would expect.
An individual mission drops your squad of three soldiers onto a small battlefield, as you take turns moving, attacking, and unleashing special abilities. An added wrinkle is the ability to perform sync attacks. If one member of your team hits an enemy, and another teammate has them lined up and in range, they will also execute an attack. A single shot typically isn't enough to take someone down, so learning how to set these up makes a big difference. It's also supremely satisfying when you set up a cascade of sync attacks for each character in a round, wiping enemies off the board or doing massive damage to one of the enormous end-of-region bosses.
Your heroes aren't as disposable as the soldiers and vehicles in Advance Wars, nor is it as disastrous if one falls in battle like classic Fire Emblem. Downed units can be brought back mid-mission using a limited supply of revives. Alternatively, everyone is raised with full health at the end of a level, which makes calculating the risk/reward of trying to finish your objectives while understaffed exciting.
The main cast of characters is a lot of fun. You start with three of nine potential heroes available, including long-time Sluggers Marco and Eri. More characters typically unlock as you complete runs, and it is great how Tactics even brings in characters like Clark and Rolf from sister series Ikari Warriors. Each hero has a unique mix of weapons, abilities, and passive bonuses, and that makes experimenting with different team compositions exciting. Marco's pistol may not do as much damage as Rolf's knife, for example, but sometimes hitting distant targets from behind cover is the better play.
Abilities are tied to adrenaline, which primarily builds up based on how many spaces you move in a given turn. This also increases your defense, allowing you to avoid incoming damage. These combine to incentivize playing aggressively rather than slowly scooting forward one tile at a time. At first, the abilities are fairly modest, like Fio moving a single unit a small number of spaces. As you move through a run, however, you frequently gain access to additional abilities as post-level rewards. Taking a few extra steps in a turn becomes much more enticing when you get to call in a powerful, area-clearing air strike at the end of it.
Every level has one primary and one secondary objective. You must complete the former to advance, while the latter, often consisting of challenges like winning in a certain number of turns or avoiding taking damage, bestows an additional reward. If you fail to complete the main task or your entire team is wiped out, your run ends in failure, and you are sent back to base camp to regroup and start again. It's a tried-and-true formula that generally works well here, although not all of the missions are created equally. Taking out four specific targets within a limited number of turns is fun. Escorting a slow-moving NPC to an exit on the other side of the battlefield, however, is not.
When you visit a region, you are taken to a Mario World-style overworld map connecting levels with paths. You can see which rewards are available at each, though only three of the levels will be immediately accessible. If you have your eyes on a specific prize, such as the Strategic Assets that let you call in ultra-powerful single-use consumables like Metal Slugs, you may need to form a deliberate path, which encourages an engaging bit of thoughtfulness before you dive into the action.
Completing three levels summons the region's boss, and these fights are by far the most interesting and intense challenges in Tactics. Each combines a massive health pool with unique mechanics and endless waves of cannon fodder to keep the pressure on. Nothing in standard missions quite prepares you to duck for cover to avoid level-wide blasts from a giant robot snake, or to jump from barge to barge as you battle a massive warship. They strike just the right tone of tough but exciting and are great palette cleanser between standard missions.
Missions are challenging enough that clearing every level for the first time feels like an achievement. Similar to other roguelikes, the first full clear (which took me around 10 hours), isn't the end. Rather, it starts a new phase that focuses more on what you do in an individual run, nicely layering in an additional element of strategy as you master the basics, with additional optional bosses mixed in.
It would be nice if the regions themselves were more varied. Technically, there are four areas, though two are deserts. Each has unique enemies and quirks that distinguish them, like sewers in the Urban area that let you quickly get around, but given that you will be looping through the levels many times, it does start to get a bit stale after a few cycles.
Each area mixes in a unique assortment of enemies with different attacks and behaviors, which does a good job making each feel distinct. However, it seems well past time to retire some of the recurring racial tropes. It's really not necessary to put an enemy in a turban and have them swing a saber if you are in a desert, or give out spears and masks, and call the people you fight in the jungle "Natives," even if they did show up in prior Metal Slug entries.
There's a lot of randomization in each run, enough that it often feels like the odds of success are determined more by luck than any tactical decisions. You get to select which region to make your incursion into but from there the levels, objectives, and rewards reshuffle on every attempt. If luck is on your side, you will have powerful upgrades and abilities readily available in easy levels. If fate is against you, however, tasks can feel impossible. It's frustrating when a promising run ends early because you need to take out a heavily armored truck before it escapes, and you don't have the firepower to pull it off. It feels particularly terrible to enter a boss fight knowing, based on the equipment you have, that you are almost certainly doomed.
This would be less of an issue if the incremental upgrades you could earn were more meaningful. Metal Slug Tactics focuses on earning cash to add more loadouts and abilities. The loadouts determine your starting weapons and abilities, adding more but, not necessarily better, options. Buying abilities directly adds them to the potential post-level upgrade pool, which means taking advantage of those once again comes down largely to luck, and there are only a few abilities to add per character, so after a few rounds, it is hard to feel like anything you do makes a difference. That’s a tough pill to swallow when other roguelikes such as Hades make every run, successful or not, count by giving you progress towards persistent weapon upgrades.
Metal Slug Tactics does an excellent job of capturing the look and feel of Metal Slug and reimagining it as a turn-based strategy roguelite. The way its strategic elements combine adrenaline-fueled abilities and sync attacks makes for exciting combat that feels smart. It's too bad that a successful run is so reliant on luck, whether it's a favorable mix of missions or the right rewards and upgrades dropping. That, and the uncomfortably outdated enemy designs, are unforced errors that limit the advance of this otherwise capable army.
The Mario & Luigi RPG series started on the Game Boy Advance, and even many years and a few iterations later, it has always reflected a connection to those roots. The two-button Game Boy Advance was the impetus for the series' central hook: Each brother is assigned to a face button and you control them both at once. Even as the series has progressed to platforms with more face buttons, the core concept has remained defined by its initial limitations. Now brought to the Switch, Mario & Luigi: Brothership feels like a conscious effort to escape those limitations, resulting in a lengthy RPG that can't quite sustain its own weight.
In Brothership, several denizens of the Mushroom Kingdom are magically swept into the new setting of Concordia--a vast sea dotted with islands that used to be part of one contiguous land mass. A world tree of sorts, the Uni-Tree served as the tether that held all of the islands together, but it suddenly wilted and the islands drifted apart. With the help of a young researcher, you pilot a ship that houses a new Uni-Tree sapling, connecting islands and the Great Lighthouses that amplify its power to bring them all back together. So your ship comes to resemble a tugboat, with several islands tethered and pulled behind it.
It's a concept that allows for lots of different kinds of environments and stories on self-contained little islands. One might be modeled like a desert, while another is a multi-story corporate headquarters. The Great Lighthouses serve as major dungeons, so each of the acts consists of the smaller stories on each island, the larger story arc of the region, and then the Great Lighthouse dungeon as its resolution.
Mario and Luigi are wandering do-gooders who just chip in because they're in a position to help. And while they don't have spoken dialogue, you get a lot of characterization out of the stellar animation quality. Brothership is an impressive feat of art direction, showcasing both new and familiar characters with a simple but very effective style that has a cartoon-like elasticity. I never got tired of seeing Luigi's face light up, or the various arrival animations as they landed on different islands. There's a running gag that Mario always lands perfectly and Luigi always lands somewhat less perfectly, with lots of funny variations on just how many ways it can go wrong.
If the islands are nicely differentiated, though, exploring them is unremarkable. Mario & Luigi has never been known for its platforming prowess, and you would never mistake Brothership for a proper Mario platformer. The controls are just a little too rigid, and sometimes that makes platforming puzzles feel less organic than they should. It also oddly abandons the dual-hero gimmick of Mario & Luigi by putting Mario squarely in the driver's seat. Luigi is less an equal than a sidekick who follows along (mostly) dutifully, and you can sometimes tap the L button to send him off to gather resources so you don't have to, or to have him help solve puzzles. That does alleviate some frustration I had with previous Mario & Luigi games, in which I had to get the timing for both brothers perfect while crossing a gap, for example, but it's strange to have Luigi so clearly play a supporting role. This functionally compromises its identity--less Mario & Luigi and more Mario featuring special guest Luigi.
In combat, though, Luigi is more than an equal. Both brothers do their own animated versions of timing-based attacks, but for most boss fights, Luigi can summon a moment of "Luigi Logic" to do a special stage-based stunner that will leave the boss vulnerable. I got the sense this was to give the character something to do and act as a counterweight to him mostly being a second banana in the exploration segments. The timing attacks work just as well as ever here, and you select Jump or Hammer based on the enemy's attributes for a light rock-paper-scissors element. Counterattacks are back as well, and they can sometimes even just end a battle immediately as you deal heavy damage back to the opponent. That said, with only two party members, it can be very easy to get into a doom-loop of using revival items on each brother in turn, once you reach tougher enemies and you're first learning their attack patterns.
Combat does have a couple of new wrinkles that help add more depth, the first of which is a regular pace of permanent upgrades. Every eight levels, you get to pick one upgrade to last you the rest of the game, like getting extra EXP from every battle or earning extra power stats with every subsequent level-up. Those are uniform between Mario and Luigi, but the two brothers do have their own specialties with stats that level up faster--Luigi is especially good at Defense and the Luck-like Stash stat, for example.
The second major combat element is Plugs: major game-changing power-ups that can be equipped across a power-strip-like interface as you unlock more outlets. These can have attributes like creating a blast radius when you get an Excellent rating on a timed attack, giving you items back after use, or being especially resistant to certain status effects. The plugs have a limited number of charges, after which they go into a recharge state, but other plugs can impact the recharge timing too. All in all, I was reminded most of Materia from Final Fantasy 7, in which nodes could be set to enable powers and the real joy was in tinkering with powerful combinations. Plugs are even more versatile, in fact, because you can hot-swap them mid-battle without losing a turn.
However, Plugs also raise the specter of Mario & Luigi: Brothership's major weakness: its pacing. The Mario & Luigi games are full-fledged RPGs, but they're compact, usually topping out at around 25 hours. Brothership seemed intent on hitting a lengthier playtime, and it just can't sustain itself for that long. The Plugs element doesn't even get introduced until almost 10 hours into the experience, and by then, combat was starting to feel rote. I appreciated that it injected a new element, but I would have liked to have it before combat was getting stale, not after.
The pacing problems are only exacerbated as the game progresses. Late in the game, there's a required story quest that then leads to a decision that could make the quest itself totally irrelevant. At more than one point, you're required to revisit a bunch of islands you've already visited. There are two almost-identical boss fights that occur nearly back to back. Traveling by sea can be tedious, even with a faster-sailing option, and small Islets have no fast-travel option and must be sailed to manually. Plus, when a particular plot element gets introduced, the writing gets significantly funnier with several laugh-out-loud gags and dialogue, but it took me about 30 hours to get there. All this makes it feel like the game isn't really respecting your time. And worse, the performance suffers with drops in the frame rate, especially near the end, leaving it to finish on a sour note.
All of this feels especially frustrating because, at its core, Brothership tells a sweet if simple fable about togetherness and human connection. The islands were ripped apart and isolated, and the ultimate threat at play is a sort of pandemic of loneliness. There's even a surprising light visual motif around screen addiction and how it may keep people from forming interpersonal bonds. It's a nice story, but it's not one that needs to be 50 hours long.
That length may have been born from a desire to create a big, meaty RPG, but in the end, it mostly serves to accentuate the simplicity in all aspects. Stretched over so many hours, exploration becomes dull, combat feels repetitive, and the story can't sustain itself. Mario & Luigi: Brothership is well made and has some great ideas, but in breaking free of its handheld limitations, it becomes too ambitious for its own good.
Third-person action game Slitterhead often presents a pretty compelling front. At first, it sounds like an out-there horror game with an inventive approach to gameplay. You play as a formless spirit that can possess humans, hunting vicious monsters capable of imitating normal people. Those creatures explode from the heads of their human bodies to reveal their true forms when discovered.
As cool as all those words clearly are, Slitterhead never reaches the promise of its premise, apart from a few gorgeous cutscenes where a human twists and mutates into a disgusting, multi-armed abomination. Instead, it's usually frustrating and repetitive, with its interesting ideas turning to gimmicks that wear themselves thin after the first few hours.
Those gimmicks feel like they have potential, at least at first. Slitterhead opens with you taking on the role of the Hyoki: a floating spirit that can zip into the brains of random humans populating the dense city of Kowlong, briefly taking control of their bodies. The Hyoki can't remember anything about itself or what it's doing, until it encounters its first slitterhead--which, after eating the brains of an unsuspecting victim, bursts from the skull of its host and chases you down alleys as you zap from one hapless soul to another to stay just ahead of it. The concept is weird, changing the way you think about characterization and physical gameplay space, and slitterheads are scary--it's a great way to start the game.
But this is the only time you're on the back foot or that Slitterhead makes use of the horror aspects of its premise. For the duration, you're hunting the parasites with the motive of exterminating them, and it's the monsters that run from you. As you leap into humans, you can use their blood to briefly create solid weapons like clubs and spears, allowing you to go toe-to-toe with the giant octopuses and praying mantises that erupt out of the necks of their unfortunate hosts. Humans are physically weaker than slitterheads, but each new body you take over gives you a new health bar to run down, as well as the element of surprise to go after a creature while it's slashing up the poor meatbag you just abandoned. As a combat system, the idea of making use of a crowd to constantly confuse and overpower your enemy with an endless series of ambushes is a fun one.

Slitterhead adds to the idea when you start finding Rarities--humans who form closer bonds with the Hyoki to make their possession a little more of a partnership, and who sport special abilities as a result. Those abilities tend to reflect each of their personalities and vocations. You might heal nearby allies or summon more humans to a battle, power up your melee weapons to set enemies on fire, throw exploding weapons, or even turn humans you possess into kamikaze time bombs. And all humans can dodge away from attacks and block or parry some blows, which can give you opportunities for big counterattacks--deflect enough strikes and you'll trigger a brief period of slowed time in which you can wail on an opponent with everything you've got.
The components of Slitterhead's combat ought to come together to make for something unexpected and entertaining, but fights are rarely all that engaging in practice. While there are a few different kinds of Slitterheads and they sometimes bring different attacks to bear against you, for the most part, they all fight the same way. Even still, I never quite felt like I could get the hang of the parry system thanks to the speed and angles at which attacks come at you. The system lacks the feeling of being tight and reliable, and I was frequently oscillating between being able to perfectly parry one slitterhead to make a fight completely trivial, only for the next one to body me over and over.
Standing your ground is a worse way to fight, though, when you can just consistently zap into another body and hit a slitterhead in their vestigial, dangling human body, where they're most vulnerable. Each time you jump into a new host, you gain a boost to your melee damage, as well as what more or less amounts to three or four free hits since the enemy AI will attack the body you were previously in for a while before it realizes you've moved into a new one. Even that is more frustrating than fun, though. The combat system is loose and clumsy, causing you to swing past an enemy as often as into them, even when you use the lock-on system. And that's if the lock manages to survive between bodies. Often, it'll disengage, requiring you to swing the camera around madly as you reorient yourself just to get a couple of quick, boring hits in, before you repeat the process.
And while bringing different Rarities into a mission might suggest a strategic plan of mixing specific abilities together, in practice, there's just not a lot going on there. All the Rarities are pretty effective, but many of their special moves don't bring enough to a battle to change its flow. Throwing bombs, zapping enemies with poison, setting traps around the battlefield--none of them change the fact that combat mostly entails just hammering the melee button before swapping to a new body and hammering it again. Many special moves require blood, which you also use for health. If a body takes critical damage with you in it on three separate occasions, you die, and you can't be outside of a body for more than a few seconds or it's game over, so using these abilities can make you very vulnerable. With slitterheads often hitting like a truck to send your hosts flying and the parry timings and directions rarely feeling like you can rely on them, you get a situation where most special abilities just aren't worth the risk.
Some abilities do have their uses--summoning more humans, for instance, is usually a worthy tradeoff, and an attack with a magical chaingun lets you basically swap your Rarity's health for damage against an enemy, and it's not too difficult to recharge if you can slip away from a foe for a couple seconds. But most of the abilities are a lot less strategic. I never found myself happy when I summoned the weak stationary turret that shot intermittently at enemies, and the ability to charge up your weapon into an explosive bolt always took too long to execute in any actual combat situations.
You're not always fighting slitterheads, though. Sometimes you have to use stealth to make your way through an area, which has the potential to be a fresh take on familiar tropes but winds up being far too simplistic. You can briefly pop out of bodies and float invisibly around an area, allowing you to peek around corners to avoid threats, and sometimes you can't get a body past a guard without being detected, forcing you to abandon one host for another further along. But guards walk short, obvious prescribed paths and never do anything unexpected. The stealth portions become extremely tedious and slow digressions where you make your way along an obvious path, and if it's ever not obvious, the Hyoki explains exactly what you should do and how.
And sometimes you're searching for slitterheads, using your special powers that direct you to their locations and even let you temporarily "sight jack" them to see what they're seeing. These scenes represent another exciting idea that would be great if they required any brain power at all, like if you had to use your knowledge of Kowlong's locales and landmarks to figure out where a slitterhead was heading or what it was planning, but you never do. Instead, you just follow a glowing trail to the enemy and attack them. Other times, you'll get into a chase scene with a slitterhead as it flees through the streets, and not only are these always exactly the same, but also always annoying. They mostly amount to zapping from human to human to take a random swing in the direction of the running slitterhead as it passes until you finally whittle down its health enough to trigger the real fight, or you reach the end of whatever prescribed path it was running, and trigger in the real fight. Regardless, chases aren't fun; they require no particular skill, they offer no challenge, and they carry no stakes.
The narrative is where the game could make up ground through its imaginative premise, but here too, Slitterhead looks deeper than it ever actually is. At first, you're just killing whatever monsters you come across, but you soon start to realize that hidden slitterheads are doing more than just snacking on the brains of whoever they can coax into a dark alley. They've taken over organized crime in Kowlong's slums, using sex workers as a means of luring in victims.
That early element of the mystery--the revelation that the head-popping, brain-slurping monster mimics had decided to do regular crime stuff while also occasionally eating their customers--was pretty disappointing. As inventive as it might be to have these fiends roaming the city, their goals and motivations can't match their often-inventive creature designs. And while the game suggests that it means to flesh out the slitterheads themselves as the narrative unfolds, that element of the story ultimately doesn't really go anywhere. It's never clear exactly how the slitterheads work, what they think or feel, or what they're all up to. They're evil and you need to kill them; anything else is wheel-spinning.
Some aspects of the story do get better as the tale goes on, at least to some degree. In between missions, you can talk with each of the Rarities you unlock, learning about them and deepening their connection with the Hyoki. When Slitterhead leans into this idea, it goes to some cool places. For instance, Julee--your first Rarity--isn't happy with the collateral damage that often results from the slitterhead hunts, encouraging you instead to limit civilian casualties when possible, and that has a notable effect on the Hyoki, who started the game by leaping off a roof in a human body and then zapping out into a new one at the last second because it was quicker than taking the stairs. Alex--another early Rarity who contrasts Julee--is bent on personal revenge against the slitterheads, and he has little regard for anyone who gets in his way, even if they're completely ignorant to what's going on. Both characters influence the Hyoki as time goes on, and the story starts to take on some dimension as their different viewpoints and ideologies expand and clash.
Unfortunately, the other Rarities aren't nearly as compelling. There are eight altogether, but only one other than Julee and Alex has any narrative to speak of, and all are two-dimensional stereotypes. They include a sex worker with abilities related to her feminine wiles, a homeless man who wishes to spend most of his time drinking, a high-school nerd, an old woman who seems to have dementia, and a housekeeper who relates everything she says to cleaning. Overall, they have little to contribute. They're never written with anything other than surface-level characterization and weak jokes that play off their stereotypes, and apart from a couple of missions where you bring along a specific Rarity to open a door or provide a little information, they're incidental to the plot and their conversations are often sort of pointless.
And while some aspects of the story develop in interesting directions, Slitterhead never succeeds in translating that intrigue into gameplay. Instead, like the combat systems, level design is repetitious and shallow. Time travel becomes a major element of the story after the opening hours, which brings its own intriguing ideas to the narrative, but the practical result is that you replay the same missions, in the same locations, over and over. Sometimes you need to go back and seek out additional Rarities or hunt for collectibles. Sometimes you'll play through a mission to a different outcome, or open a door you saw in a previous run to access a new small area, but ultimately it feels like Slitterhead is made up of the same four or five levels, with the same boring fights and frustrating chases, over and over.
It feels like piling on at this point, but it also must be mentioned that Slitterhead is, largely, a pretty ugly game. Character faces are plastic, glossy, and largely unmoving, and while the slitterheads themselves are often cool-looking, since you fight a few variations on the theme over and over, they stop being visually compelling in a hurry. There's a lot of style in the game--opening title cards carry cool graphical effects, missions end with a neat freeze-frame "To Be Continued" message, and there are times when the presentation is artfully cinematic or knowingly horrific, hinting at what the whole experience could have been like. Gameplay, though, looks 15 years out of date, and it's bad enough to be distracting, especially when the game puts heavy emphasis on talking to characters to advance the story.
Really, though, most things about Slitterhead feel out of date in this way. The body-swapping combat, RPG-like team of possessable people, the monster-hunting semi-paranormal narrative--they're all exciting until you engage with them a little, when they reveal themselves to be shallow and underdeveloped. The actual experience of playing Slitterhead is constant repetition of systems that aren't very engaging even their first time, across levels you'll see over and over again, telling a story that never makes much sense, with characters that feel like first-draft lists of stereotypes. Slitterhead has a lot of fascinating ideas and compelling gameplay on the surface, but beneath, it's just boring and banal--a bunch of scary-looking monsters who turn out not to be very scary at all.
SaGa stands as one of Square Enix's longest-running series, but it's also had a rough time outside of Japan. If you pick up a random SaGa game, you'll probably understand why: SaGa games are JRPGs that don't do things in the way most overseas players would expect. SaGa tends to focus more on complex, interweaving systems of combat, character growth, and questing. And that's supplemented by narratives that tend to act more as connective tissue that link locations and objectives together instead of the sprawling, character-driven stories the genre has become known for. Wandering around blindly and piecing out what to do and how things work in a SaGa game can be incredibly compelling, but some entries in the franchise lean toward immensely frustrating. Romancing SaGa 2 is more the former than the latter, but its earlier releases were still an acquired taste.
Romancing SaGa 2: Revenge of the Seven is a full-on remake of a game many fans consider the series' apex--if not among the greatest RPGs of all time. If there's any game in the series that could reach out and capture a new audience in a way no other SaGa game has before, this is the one that could do it.
Romancing SaGa 2's story begins ages prior to the modern day, when seven heroes fought to rid the land of evil forces. Their deeds have become the subject of myth and legend, and as times have grown ever more troubled, the people have yearned for their return. In the recent past, Emperor Leon and his two sons hear rumblings of the heroes' revival, but soon learn the horrible truth--the heroes have themselves become agents of evil, and they slay both Leon and his son Victor in a vicious attack. Despite this loss, there is still hope: Inheritance Magic, which allows an Emperor to pass memories, abilities, and strength down to an appointed successor, beginning with young prince Gerard.
The inheritance system is one of Romancing SaGa 2's most-distinctive gameplay elements. Defeating the wicked seven heroes won't be accomplished overnight--in fact, it will take many generations and hundreds of in-game years, and each successive Emperor--whom you can often choose--takes up the task of their forebear where they left off. Even if you party-wipe--a condition that, in most other RPGs, would lead to a Game Over, you instead pick a new Emperor, amass a new party, and keep going.
Since your quest spans centuries, you're allowed a certain degree of freedom in how to approach the task of defeating the heroes. Here's where one of the remake's best features shines: It offers helpful pointers to where quests and points of interest are, helping to alleviate the "what am I able to do now" problem that SaGa is notorious for. Most locations in the game are opened through exploration of a geographical region, being given information from an NPC, or through dialogue choices during questlines. You're not obliged to do the good majority of the game's quests beyond the beginning and ending events, but doing so can yield rewards: opening up new playable character classes, giving you access to new areas, or giving your Avalon Empire additional territory, meaning more money for your Imperial coffers--just to name a few. It's also possible to close off some questlines permanently by making specific choices or simply running out of time. You're not going to see everything Romancing SaGa 2 has to offer in a single playthrough, so it's best not to worry about optimization and instead follow the quest threads you find interesting and fun.
You'll be spending a huge chunk of your time playing Romancing SaGa 2 in combat. This is one place where the remake has received a massive overhaul over the original. Battles are still turn-based, but instead of inputting all of your party's commands for the turn at once and seeing combat play out, you get a timeline where you can see when enemies will act relative to your party--and every action you choose executes immediately before moving on to the next character. The original's Weapon and Spell Points have also been consolidated together into Battle Points, which are spent to use both spells and weapon skills during combat, making resource management simpler.
Also new is the Overdrive Gauge. Similar to Octopath Traveler, enemies have weapon and elemental weaknesses that will be revealed when hit by attacks. Exploiting these weaknesses fills up the Overdrive Gauge. When full, you can use it to have several party members fire off special attacks in a chain. Not only does this allow you to use several skills in immediate succession without a BP cost, but it also augments the damage those skills do significantly. As the game progresses and the enemies' stats grow to match yours, using the Overdrive Gauge will become incredibly important to quick and decisive victory--and using it for a big, powerful combo strike never stops feeling satisfying.

But in order to get the most out of combat, you have to understand how SaGa's systems differ from what you're used to--though this particular remake makes a visible effort to demystify some of its more complex elements. Instead of gaining levels, characters gain stats and proficiencies based on their actions in battle: for example, if you use spears a lot when fighting, your spear skill levels will increase greatly in turn, affecting the damage you do with that weapon. Stat growth is significantly less obtuse than other SaGa titles, as you'll be able to see how close you are to making gains at the end of battle.
Learning attack techniques also works in a distinct way. Not only does using weapons and magic increase your proficiency, but depending on a confluence of factors, you also have the opportunity to "glimmer" new skills in the middle of combat. These skills are tied to specific weapons and have their own branching trees. When you're close to learning a new technique, you'll see a light bulb next to one of your existing skills, indicating a chance of you glimmering a new skill if you use it. This is a marked improvement over some of the previous SaGa installments, where you essentially had to keep using skills in hope that something would trigger eventually. The skills learned by one character can be registered and taught to others in generations that follow, provided they have sufficient proficiency levels to equip them.
Formations will be learned as you progress--you usually learn a new formation with every new Emperor--and placement of your Emperor and allies can have a tremendous effect by giving assorted status buffs/debuffs, as well as affecting AoE techniques. You'll want to strategize as much as you can, because there's still one scary SaGa staple to talk about: permadeath. Every character has a starting amount of Life Points when you draft them into your party, and they lose one every time they're KOed in combat. When their LP runs out, they are gone, including your current Emperor (though you're allowed to pick a new Emperor and carry on). It's not as bad here as in other series games, but having to run back and draft new party members because somebody gave up the ghost for good mid-dungeon is still not an appealing prospect. Since LP restoration is extremely rare, the need to keep your band away from getting KOed as much as possible adds a thrilling tension to both regular fights and boss battles.
If this all sounds like an interesting mix of systems, that's because it truly is. Despite how initially abrasive they can be, when a SaGa game manages to grab you, it's hard to escape. Romancing SaGa 2's presentation and quality-of-life improvements do a fantastic job of making this far easier for series newcomers (and those who may have bounced off of other games in the series) to dive into. Even the story's been expanded upon significantly: it's still not as front-and-center as you might be used to, but you'll find a very interesting tale of how the Seven Heroes lost their way through finding memories and piecing together bits over the course of your campaign.
It's not quite perfect, however. As the game progresses, battles get longer and more arduous--enemies scale stats up as your party does--and even standard-issue foes tend to hit hard. While you recover to full HP after each fight, you'll frequently find yourself straggling at the end of a dungeon, drained from having to use countless high-BP skills just to do a reasonable amount of damage. Restorative items exist, but are available in very limited quantities for the most part, so a lot of your time in dungeons winds up trying to navigate to avoid encounters--which becomes frustrating during those times when imprecise platforming comes into play.
There's another reason to avoid encounters, as well. While this remake does a solid job at making certain game elements more transparent, there's still one that remains very mysterious: how the game's timer works. A combination of unseen factors, including the number of battles and completed-event flags determine when a generational shift to the next Emperor will happen and how many years pass in-between. This can be highly disruptive, interrupting current questlines and necessitating a time-consuming complete party reorganization. At least you have the option now for your current Emperor to immediately abdicate and reset these unseen timers, but it's still an element where giving the player more information would be a benefit.
Regardless, Romancing SaGa 2: Revenge of the Seven is a superb remake of a classic game that rarely received due recognition outside of Japan. It's filled with systems that are fun to explore and utilize alongside a core gameplay conceit that remains unique. If you're looking for a different take on JRPGs--or just a unique RPG in general--this is a lengthy journey you'll want to invest lots of time into.
The best part of any Call of Duty game's Zombies mode is how it facilitates panic. The longer you play the round-based horde mode, in which the undead stream toward you from all directions, the tougher it becomes, and before long, you're sprinting around the map, trying desperately to stay alive as crowds of corpses shamble after you. Your only chance is to stop and fire away to thin out the approaching wave of undeath, hoping you don't run into any huge mutated monstrosity while your back is turned. Black Ops 6 is great at these moments.
Zombies in Black Ops 6 is a return to the best-known and best-enjoyed form of the four-player cooperative mode, which developer Treyarch originated back in Call of Duty: World at War and has been iterating on ever since. Gone is the approach from last year's Modern Warfare 3, a messy take that bolted Zombies mechanics onto elements of CoD's battle royale game, Warzone. What Black Ops 6 offers feels like classic Zombies but enhanced, with a bunch of small elements old and new added together to build out the experience in fun, engaging, and challenging ways.
The most notable change, and the one that works best with Zombies, is Omni-movement, Black Ops 6's adjustment to how you get around in the game. Omni-movement lets you move at the same speed in any direction, including sprinting, diving, and sliding, so you're able to change direction on a dime without losing momentum. It's a great addition to Zombies, where you will inevitably find yourself kiting a horde around the map as you fight to stay alive, only to suddenly realize that the path you're backpedaling down isn't as clear as you thought.
Omni-movement really shines as the panic of these moments mounts and you're able to deftly change direction to slip around enemies to make good your momentary escape from certain death. The system adds an extra dynamism to Zombies because you're agile, especially compared to the undead, providing what feels like a lot of options to just run for it, where you can throw yourself over a rail or down a flight of stairs, firing as you go.
That said, the mode is still as tough as ever, offering plenty of challenges to match the fact that being a little quicker on your feet might help you stay alive a little longer. New enemies, such as the spider-like Vermin, which can pop out of regular zombies as you gun them down and even transform into flying Parasites, change up the composition of the undead hordes, and you'll face special monsters like Manglers and Abominations pretty regularly, too.

Black Ops 6's Zombies mode launched with two maps, and each has a different feel from the other. Liberty Falls is a small American town that's largely laid out on the side of a hill, forcing you to work your way up and down it a lot of the time and featuring a mess of pathways through buildings that can turn into bottlenecks if you're not careful, as well as ziplines at the top that can carry you quickly to rooftops. Terminus, on the other hand, is an island prison that hides a secret laboratory beneath it and tends to be more sprawling, giving you opportunities to drag zombies around in big circles. It's flanked by smaller islands you can reach by boat and includes a bunch of subterranean tunnels, making it feel like both a large open space and a winding maze as you explore it.
The focus on these maps is twofold: Stay alive as long as possible, and scour the maps for intricate Easter eggs and narrative quests to complete. The approach on both is a little different--Liberty Falls starts mostly in the traditional way, with players unlocking doors to open up the map. On Terminus, each section of the map has its own dedicated generator, which you need to turn on and defend from zombies to power up the facility and things like Perk Cola machines located in each section. But the gist is the same here as in the past, with lots of secrets and story to uncover in both maps as you spend the Essence you earn from killing zombies to purchase weapons and upgrades.
In addition to Omni-movement, Black Ops 6's take on Zombies works in a variety of systems both old and new that expand on your options in combat and how you approach the mode generally. There's collecting Salvage from enemies to craft gear, "wall buy" stations where you can purchase specific weapons and armor upgrades, and all the returning mechanics ranging from Perk Colas to Pack-a-Punch machines, including a new punch-focused one called Melee Macchiato.
Returning from Black Ops 3 are GobbleGums, gumballs you can grab periodically that give you short-lived upgrades and which are distributed from a "pack" of possibilities you set ahead of time. Gobblegums do things like teleport you randomly around the map or create specific drops such as Max Ammo or Insta-Kill, but what's nice is you can pick them up when they appear and stockpile them to use when you choose. So in addition to the elements of Zombies like Bonus Points and Nuke pickups that drop randomly, and Perks you can buy to upgrade your character, you also have deployable, short-lived buffs that can give you a significant edge at the right time.

Although Zombies still has you starting with a pistol and finding most of your gear throughout a run, Black Ops 6 adds the ability to set loadouts ahead of time, which let you customize some of the things you might eventually find or buy as you play. Your starting loadout also includes a Field Upgrade, a sort of "ultimate" ability that charges over time, like a Dark Ether beam that can burn through tons of zombies in a straight line, or an exploding Energy Mine that zaps lots of enemies in a specific area. Your loadout can include a dedicated melee weapon, and you can tune guns with attachments so that when you find or buy them during a Zombies run, they come out exactly the way you like them, instead of with random components.
Finally among the customization options, there's the Augment system, which lets you equip a few specific upgrades that adjust how certain elements of Zombies work. Everything from perks to ammo types to Field Upgrades can be customized this way; you might equip an augment to the Juggernog perk that causes you to deal bonus damage when your health is low, or one that splits your Energy Mine ability into three mines instead of one.
Augments have to be "researched" before you can use them, which is Zombies' major progression path--you can only research augments for one element of the game at a time, which pushes you to make specific choices about what's most important to you. You unlock three "major" and three "minor" augments for each element and can equip one of each for a given item, which works out to a lot of options to tweak and customize your upgrades and power-ups toward a specific playstyle or preference. The research system is slow-going because you can only work on one augment path at a time, but cross-progression at least means that whether you're playing Zombies, Black Ops 6's campaign, or multiplayer, you're still earning experience for augment research.
With loadouts, augments, and Gobblegums, plus all the usual elements at play in Zombies, you wind up with a lot of stuff to think about, plan for, and customize within the mode, and that tends to deepen the experience significantly. There's just a lot you can mess around with or adjust to change how Zombies plays, providing lots of reasons to keep diving into and trying to survive the two maps--and that's before you even start worrying about the Easter eggs and story elements that tie them all together.

Where Zombies struggles with all these new ideas, however, is in making them approachable to new or lapsed players. The Zombies mode has always catered to a hardcore group of dedicated fans, and has long been so convoluted and unclear that more casual players might bounce off. All those different systems and new additions can add to the confusion in a mode that already very much expects you to know how it works or spend a lot of time figuring it out. For example, I already knew about the augment system from previewing Black Ops 6 Zombies ahead of its release but didn't realize how the system worked in practice at launch, or that I wasn't earning any research credit until I actually went into its dedicated menu and assigned a research task. It's not that any one element of Zombies is particularly hard to grasp, but there are a lot of layers of systems and menus and elements to understand and keep in mind, increasing the density of an already-dense mode.
Treyarch announced that it's going to release a "guided" version of Zombies sometime after Black Ops 6's launch, and as a more casual Zombies player, that's an element I'm really looking forward to seeing. Uncovering the hidden aspects of Terminus and Liberty Falls in Black Ops 6 is, as usual, very involved, and even more difficult when you're messing around on the maps with friends who aren't especially hardcore about Zombies. Bringing in new players is something that Zombies struggles to do, and the guided mode should help deal with that issue. As it stands now, it's great that Zombies in Black Ops 6 makes the simple act of fighting and staying alive as deep and engaging as it is. But it still requires a lot of dedication to understanding its intricacies and nuances, especially if you only pop into Zombies now and then--after all, it's been four years since Black Ops Cold War.
Still, the return to round-based, Easter egg-hunting form for Treyarch's Zombies is, overall, very strong, specifically because it returns to a version of the mode and a lot of systems that are proven to work well together. It's more of a recombination and refinement of the mode than an especially innovative one, but here, that works very well, allowing Treyarch to push the envelope in the design of its maps and the way its systems work together rather than trying to force Zombies into a mold that doesn't fit it.
Elements ranging from augments to Omni-movement to Gobblegums make it engaging and satisfying to fight through the hordes, even if you never go much deeper than trying to kill as many zombies as possible and then pull off a daring helicopter exfiltration. Though Zombies remains a little dense, especially for those less familiar with the mode, Treyarch's adjustments add a lot to enjoy about it, and do a great job of creating those breathless, panicky moments of fighting off the clawing undead that define the mode at its best.
There's an argument to be made that speed is what makes Call of Duty multiplayer feel so good. As a franchise, the CoD games are great about getting you into the action as quickly as possible. When you shoot opponents, they tend to go down fast; when you die, you can be back in the fight in about a second. With Call of Duty: Black Ops 6, Treyarch leans into the speed of the franchise in just about every respect, starting with some meaningful adjustments to movement systems and ending with map designs that make sure you're never far from your next hail of bullets. Most of the time, those fast and intense battles are a lot of fun--but the design changes also result in Black Ops 6 feeling limited in the kinds of fights you're likely to face.
The major adjustment Black Ops 6 brings to the series is the Omni-movement system, and at least in terms of how the game feels to play, it's an excellent one. Omni-movement does away with the pesky natural limitations of a pair of human legs. You can run, sprint, slide, and dive in any direction, regardless of where you're facing or where your momentum would take you. It's kind of akin to the freedom a tank turret has from the vehicle beneath it, able to turn in any direction to address threats, but much faster and much cooler.
Omni-movement creates a really high degree of fluidity. The ability to move at full speed in any direction at any time makes it easy to quickly navigate maps and turn to address threats. The game never holds you back when it comes to movement, and paired with how fast you might gun down an enemy if you react quickly enough, or the speed with which they can shut you down, Omni-movement is an excellent improvement to your overall reactivity. This is a game that's about twitch reactions and sharp aim, and Omni-movement amplifies that twitchiness by giving you more freedom of motion in all cases.
It's the sliding and the diving that's the most fun, though. Sliding and diving in whatever direction you want not only creates incredibly cinematic moments where you completely surprise someone as you whip around a corner or belly flop over a railing, it also gives you the opportunity to lie on the ground and target threats on any side of you in a way that was just never possible before. And to Black Ops 6's credit, while the moves are cool whether you're using them or they're used against you, they don't tend to make you invincible or even particularly hard to kill. Creative movement is just another tool in your kit, and you're as vulnerable as you've always been--you are not, in fact, Max Payne, so dive carelessly through a doorway and you'll still probably be dead before you hit the ground. Omni-movement is an extremely video-gamey addition to a first-person shooter, but it's undeniable that it fits perfectly with the nature of Call of Duty gameplay, and feels just as good.
There's a drawback to Omni-movement, though, and it's that it can make Black Ops 6 an even more flop-heavy hop-fest than Call of Duty already was. There are times when you'll be in a match full of players moving at ridiculous speeds, flying through windows and around corners to blast you with shotguns--and if you're like me, you might be wishing for the Call of Duty days of yore when working together and utilizing strategy and tactics at least felt like it could be as important to a multiplayer fight as being the person with the most reliable hand for headshots and the twitchiest trigger finger.
Black Ops 6 also tends to facilitate a lot of these close-range, fast-paced encounters with its map design. Maps are split into two categories: 12 regular maps that range more in size, and which pop up in your Quickplay and Hardcore game modes, and four smaller Strike maps, for chaotic 6-on-6 Face Off matches, or 2-on-2 modes like Gun Game. Even among the 12 maps that come up in most game modes, none is especially large, so you're never far from an opponent. They also tend to be quickly and easily traversed, so you can sprint around for a flanking position or make your way to back up teammates in a firefight very quickly. Each one offers a mix of interior and exterior locations and a fair amount of verticality, and they're all imaginative and distinct from one another, whether you're working through an abandoned factory or slipping in and out of hangars housing stealth bombers.
Read our Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 Campaign Review
The map designs make Black Ops 6's locales dynamic to fight in, with a ton of variety in the ways that players will meet and how you'll need to address a space in order to take down an opponent. Spaces tend to never be completely open or completely flat; there are always bits of rubble or piles of cargo that let you gain a height advantage or break up lines of sight, and that makes for a lot of strategically interesting battles. It's somewhat rare that you can find a decent-enough sight line to set up with a long-range weapon like a sniper rifle--instead, maps tend to send you snaking through rusting train cars, like in Derelict, or in and out of strip mall buildings as in Rewind.
This means that as you enter any space, you really need to think about where opponents are going to be and how they'll be moving through that area as well as how you do. There's rarely much in the way of symmetry or simple shapes; there's always a lot of cover as well as a lot of flanking angles, and so you wind up with tons of different ways to approach any given firefight. All that makes Black Ops 6's maps fun and interesting, with a wealth of options, rather than a few dedicated lanes or central spots where all the fighting happens.
If there's an issue with how maps are designed in Black Ops 6, though, it's that they often feel too cramped. It's not new that Call of Duty maps offer tons of pathways through any given area, such that you always have to expect someone to cruise up beside you and light you up while you're aiming down sights to protect a strategic position or put ammo down a hallway. But especially with players incentivized to run full-bore around the map at all times, Black Ops 6's multiplayer can sometimes feel like you've got nowhere to go.
This is also an issue with respawns; the tight confines mean that in some maps, you'll drop back into the fight almost right where you left it. I've had several firefights where I've defeated an opponent and had that same person respawn in more or less the same place I killed them, looking right at me, causing me to lose a surprise rematch while I'm trying to get another magazine into my gun. Other times, I've been the one to respawn right back in the same place, where the three or four opposing players who overwhelmed me the first time were more than happy to drop me again.
The tight confines can also limit the choices of guns that make sense to use on them more often than not. It's fine to have small maps as a variety of offerings in a multiplayer game, where close-range guns make more sense--but especially with all the extra diving and sliding Omni-movement makes possible and all the angles of approach you have to worry about as you move around, more often than not, close-range fighting becomes the default. Long-range weapons like marksman or sniper rifles generally feel kind of useless on most Black Ops 6 maps; there aren't that many long sightlines most of the time, and you're probably going to get shot from the side before you can set up to use one anyway.
Still, everything is so fast in Black Ops 6, from encounters to movement to respawns, and it all works so quickly and so well that it's hard to be annoyed. Alongside Omni-movement making getting around feel great, Black Ops 6's gunplay stands up with the franchise’s excellent standard. Every gun is solid and lethal, and easy to be proficient with while also requiring the player to account for nuanced changes to firing rates and recoil intensity. This is the element Call of Duty has been getting right the longest, and Black Ops 6 doesn't disappoint with any of its weapons.
Like with movement, Black Ops 6 makes a couple meaningful tweaks to loadouts and progression that add to the overall feeling of playstyle customization in multiplayer. The big focus on cross-progression between all modes means that you're always unlocking something no matter where you play in Black Ops 6, making it easy to quickly build up a base of custom options for different gameplay approaches in multiplayer. The game adds a few new Scorestreaks that offer fun options for your rewards, like the guided Archangel missile you can fire and then control to pilot straight into enemies, and the Watchdog helicopter that marks enemies as well as shoots at them, making it kind of like a deadly UAV. The Wildcard system from other Black Ops games also returns, allowing you to choose to add a particular gameplay tweak to your loadout--extra tactical gear like flashbangs, for example, or the ability to equip two primary weapons at the same time.
Perks are divided into three categories--Enforcer, Strategist, and Recon--and if you equip three from the same group, you're awarded an extra perk that fits in the style of the others. With Enforcer, kills get you faster health regeneration and movement speed for a short time; Strategists get a bonus toward their Scorestreaks if they destroy enemy equipment or complete objectives, and can see enemy deployables through walls; and Recon nets you the ability to briefly see enemies through walls when you spawn and removes the death skulls from players you kill from the minimap. All of them encourage different thinking about the perks you bring into matches and give you a means of specializing your approach to gameplay. Particularly when going out with some pals, the specialization provides the sense that you're fulfilling a role on a team, while maximizing your specific approach to gameplay.
Between Omni-movement, map design, and new options for loadouts, Black Ops 6 is full of relatively small adjustments that fit well with the underlying Call of Duty formula, without drastically changing it. Those adjustments often do tend to favor one kind of play over others--the bunny hopping, dolphin diving, in-your-face aggressive approach--but that's not necessarily always a bad thing, and playing with Black Ops 6's new movement system makes for some phenomenal action moments and great-feeling gunfights. The effects of Omni-movement and smaller battlefields have a tendency to have a limiting effect on what works in Black Ops 6 multiplayer at times, but with well-built maps, quick traversal, intense weapons, and interesting loadout options and rewards, the things the game does well are still a whole lot of fun.
It's hard to believe it's been nearly a decade since the last mainline Batman Arkham game. Since then, we've seen several Arkham-adjacent projects come out, only to feel hamstrung or otherwise lacking. 2016's Batman Arkham VR was a neat tech demo, but it encompassed only the series' investigative elements. Both traditional Arkham studios, Rocksteady and WB Montreal, launched Batman-esque co-op games in recent years, but each struggled for several, sometimes similar reasons. Batman: Arkham Shadow stops the tailspin by authentically recapturing the essence of the Arkham series in ways other recent Batmanverse games disappointingly and intentionally avoided, making this the best Batman game since Arkham Knight, even if it doesn't soar to the same heights as the series' finest moments.
Batman: Arkham Shadow is a VR-only, direct sequel to Arkham Origins, taking place roughly a year later. That means this version of Batman--once again played by Roger Craig Smith doing a solid Kevin Conroy impression--is still relatively untested and ornery. He's learning how to become the unflappable Batman we typically know him to be, so his temper can still get the best of him, and his uncanny ability to stay 10 steps ahead of his enemies isn't guaranteed. Played in first-person, you'll explore some enclosed sections of Gotham before ultimately landing in Blackgate Prison for the bulk of the game, giving this game a structure very much like the metroidvania-style design of 2009's Arkham Asylum.
The Dark Knight's mission is to identify and stop The Rat King--a new enemy in the Batman mythology--who's thought to be hiding out in the prison just days before his catastrophic strike on Gotham unfolds. This sees Shadow's story unfold over the course of an in-game week rather than the usual overnight structure of Arkham plots, and sometimes, it shows.
You'll spend about half of the game out of costume and disguised as an inmate, Irving "Matches" Malone, allowing you entry into the high-security prison. Some of the game's pacing in these sections doesn't match what the Arkham games would normally offer--a throwaway detail involves spending money at the commissary to buy cosmetics with which you decorate your prison cell, but the options are both too few in number and unappealing. But even cool options here would've felt like the wrong layer to add to the Arkhamverse.
Batman doesn't hang out, regardless of whether he's dressed like an inmate or a superhero, so you'll only really see his cell when it's time to end the day. It's not merely dialogue when you're out of the cowl, though. There are still some enjoyable moments when playing as Matches, like some missions that ask you to sneak around the complex or fight other inmates without Batman's usual repertoire, but they pale in comparison to the standout time spent in Kevlar.
One issue I kept returning to, regardless of Bruce Wayne's get-up, is a lack of notable villains. There are only a few boss battles in the game, and most don't involve Batman's major rogues. When I played Arkham Origins, it was hard to shake the sense that I was squaring off with Batman's B- and C-tier villains, for the most part. Firefly doesn't hold a candle (no pun intended) to Poison Ivy, Two-Face, or Joker.
Arkham Shadow dials down the theatrics to an even lower level, swapping out someone like Origins' Deathstroke for Lock-Up, a hulking Tyger guard who struggles to feel like anything more than a souped-up common enemy. To its credit, Shadow also takes advantage of its story being early in Batman's career, letting you spend a lot of time around characters whose arcs fans know all too well, but you'll see them before they've fallen down their respective pits of darkness. That's standard prequel fare, but I enjoy it when it's done well in the Batman world, as it is here--in several cases, but one especially.
On its story merits, Arkham Shadow can't match Rocksteady's best work. I've long believed Arkham City to be one of the greatest Batman stories regardless of medium, so the bar is extremely high, and though Arkham Shadow falls short of it, that's not to say it's a bad story. It gets better in the final act and has some great character moments. It authentically captures the mood of the other games, owed to its way of adopting both identical art direction and a similar-sounding original score. Arkham Shadow wants you to recall fondly your time with the earlier games in the series, and it wants you to believe it deserves to exist in that same place in your mind. And, despite a story that doesn't get there, most everything else does.
Arkham Shadow is exclusive not just to virtual reality as a platform, but to the Meta Quest 3 (and its cheaper, slightly less-powerful sibling, the Meta Quest 3S). But in all the ways fans of the series would find important, it plays like a core addition to the lauded series. Unlike Arkham VR, Arkham Shadow ports over all three phases of the series' gameplay loop: combat, stealth, and detective elements.
The combat is the surest sign that Shadow really works as a proper Batman game. For a Batman fan skeptical of VR or even someone who has simply never tried it, it would make for a jaw-dropping demonstration. It offers the same blend of fluidity and complexity of past games, highlighted by its signature counter mechanics being seamlessly transposed into VR, giving you the tools to take out a dozen baddies without so much as a scratch on your exposed chin.
Rather than press a face button to activate the counter when the on-screen prompt appears, Shadow shows the same lightning bolt-like symbol on the left or right side of your interface, and to perform the move, you simply throw your arm out to the same side. Just like in other Arkham games, this allows you to pummel one guy, but then easily interrupt your own offense in favor of a counter that continues your combo meter, unlocking things like finishing moves and activating Batman's shock gloves. Importantly, the camera automatically shifts to have you face countered foes, though you can always turn on your own accord, too. It all feels just as fluid as the existing games in the series and earns the "freeflow" moniker in its own right.
The same enemies you may know from the series return here, and each one adds a layer of combat complexity. A bigger, more brutish Tyger guard must be stunned with your cape--done in VR by making a hook motion with your arm without holding the triggers, which would instead translate to a fist/punch. Enemies with stun batons are scaled up and over using the right stick, then kicked in the back by raising and throwing down both of your arms. Those with knives need to be dodged by ducking before you can counter their attacks with your own, and riot-shielders demand a combination of cape-stunning and climbing before an overhead forearm smash. To Arkham veterans, these will sound familiar, as they're exactly what you'd do in the other games, and in a way I can't technically explain, the physics of it all feel exactly as I remember it to feel. Every combat encounter is exciting and approachable enough to allow for mastery of its systems, which naturally sends a tidal wave of dopamine coursing through you. In a manner I've never experienced before, I am Batman.
This is just as uncannily true when moving through the world in all the ways you can as the hero. When gliding down from gargoyles, or bat-clawing over a ledge, you move at the same speed, and with seemingly the same animations, you'd be used to from other Arkham games. Here, you'll physically hold out both arms to your sides to perform a glide, rather than hold down a single button, but how it looks and feels is otherwise identical to before. A glide kick from 40 feet away includes the same look and feel that series experts will be used to. Even looking down at my legs when I was simply walking, Batman seems to have the same gait he always had in the series. I didn't expect this degree of duplication and probably would've settled for something quite like what I knew before. But this isn't just quite like it. It is it. Having played each of the Arkham games several times over, Arkham Shadow feels like coming home after some time spent away. It's familiar and faithful in all the right ways.
While combat in VR includes about as many button presses as it does on a controller, performing stealth functions is a more physical, multi-step process. From atop a perch in an older Arkham game, you'd press one button to pounce on an enemy below and string them up like a warning sign to others during "predator" sections of the game. In VR, that one ability is performed in several smaller motions: First, you hold down the right stick to hang from the gargoyle, then you lunge at a nearby enemy with both arms, at which point you'll lift him up. You tie them automatically, but to complete the move, you then toss them away, like The Undertaker throwing Mankind off the cell in 1998.
If it sounds complicated, it's really not. The on-screen prompts help it become second nature before long, and no move demands unforgiving precision. Like most VR games, it accepts something close enough to what it's asking for. Crouching behind enemies or popping out of grates beneath them to silently choke them out is similarly tactile, demanding you lunge at them by thrusting your arms forward, then throwing your arms side to side a few times to simulate a chokehold until they pass out.
Batman's tool belt has been cleverly rebuilt for VR, too. The decoder that would unlock doors in past games is now a motion-based puzzle where you unholster the device, scan the lock, then search a small radar-like map in your hand to pinpoint the sweet spot that grants the unlock password. Other classic tools return, too, like the bat-claw that can rip grates off of hard-to-reach air ducts, or the explosive launcher that can be used to break down walls or even stun enemies mid-fistfight.
Naturally, Shadow also includes detective vision, which you activate by moving either controller to the side of your head and clicking a trigger. It's a simple on/off switch that immediately recolors the world around you in the same light blue filter, in which notable objects such as quest items and tons of optional puzzles stick out in orange. The detective gameplay in this series has never been very complex--it's not Obra Dinn; you mostly just walk around interacting with the highlighted items so Batman can make his deductions automatically.
That's true here too, but like before, I find even this simplistic take on detective work functions well as a reminder that Batman isn't just one part MMA fighter and one part ninja; he's also a gumshoe. Whereas the previous attempt to bring Batman Arkham to VR captured only this basic gameplay loop that usually doesn't survive such a spotlight, in Shadow, it's one relatively minor but still important piece to delivering a well-rounded, authentic Arkham experience.
Given the game's metroidvanian world design, you can spend a lot of time off the main path to instead smash rat statues, destroy propaganda radios, and collect audio logs, among other puzzle types. Like Riddler Challenges before them, these puzzles are usually just tricky enough to reel you away from the objective for a minute or two, though plenty can't be completed until you unlock the right tools later in the story. Even if this is your first Arkham game, that aspect is well-telegraphed when it needs to be, like when you clearly have no way of reaching a vent far above you until you get the bat-clow. I always enjoyed these optional puzzles, evidenced by the fact that I could hardly ignore any one of them when I'd encountered it unless I wasn't equipped to beat it yet. To reach 100% game completion, you'll need to wipe the prison of these puzzles, as well as complete the game's enjoyable combat and stealth challenges, which unfold in arenas outside of the campaign--again representing another staple of the series.
With all of these tools at your disposal and all of the gameplay tentpoles intact, Shadow also thankfully offers a lengthy list of movement and accessibility options so players can find their best play style. Three core movement styles make up the base options, but you can customize each of them further so that if you might like an immersive turning method, you can have it, even if you also prefer that with a heavily vignetted point-of-view, which is used in some VR games to reduce nausea.
A few recent VR games left me nauseated, which confused me since I haven't historically had to deal with that. Thankfully, Arkham Shadow never did. I played the game in full on the middle-ground option between something for beginners (or those most nausea-prone) and those who want the most immersive VR experience. The game does seem to eat into my battery a lot, as I beat it in five roughly two-hour sessions, stopping not due to nausea, but because my 5% battery warning would appear.
My foremost problem with Arkham Shadow is a lack of polish, which I consider different from the ubiquitous VR jank that pops up in Blackgate occasionally, like mangled forearms seen when opening some doors, or fingers that clip through held objects. The bugs I experienced were diverse in their nature, though thankfully not too numerous in their total instances. To name a few: Sometimes I'd get stuck behind an invisible wall, like when I'd deactivated an electrified barrier, but the game treated it like it still stood there. Other times, I'd load into an area and briefly witness a strange out-of-body experience where I watched from a great distance the entire game world laid into place before being teleported into the right spot. I'm not sure if it was a bug or just a lack of enemy barks and taunts, but in some fights, the bad guys I was scrapping with would too often repeat each other, too.
Individually, none of these are game-breaking, but collectively, the broad swath of smallish but nagging issues stood out. A VR game usually takes a hit to its visuals as a starting point when compared to what a PC or console game could offer, so when I'd experience bugs like these on top of a lower-definition take on the Arkhamverse, it became a reminder that, however authentic this new style of Arkham game is to the classics, it still felt off at times.
Admitting all that, I also know myself well enough as a critic by now to know that I don't tend to care about bugs as much as many others. If the core experience is strong--if the highs are high enough--I tend to forgive some missing polish. That's ultimately where I land with Batman: Arkham Shadow. The highs are high enough. Its story is a fun Batman romp that would work as a solid comic book arc, even if it can't touch Rocksteady's mainline saga. Moreover, it's by capturing the full spectrum of Arkham's still-exciting gameplay mechanics so effectively that Shadow becomes a must-play game for Batman fans, and a revealing measuring stick of how much virtual reality has advanced in just a few years. This isn't the first Batman Arkham game made for VR, but it's undoubtedly the first to feel like it belongs with the rest of the series.
You wouldn't know just from looking at it--with its vivid, comic book-esque art style and irreverent punk-rock tone--but Redacted (officially styled as [REDACTED]) actually takes place in the same sci-fi universe as 2022's The Callisto Protocol. While that was a third-person survival-horror game trying to capture the same magic that Dead Space bottled up over a decade and a half ago, Striking Distance Studios has taken a wildly different approach with this spin-off, repurposing various elements from its debut game to create an isometric roguelike dungeon crawler.
It's a drastic shift for the young series, ditching the grisly melodrama and Rock 'Em Sock 'Em combat of The Callisto Protocol by pivoting to referential humor and twin-stick shooting. It still feels immediately familiar thanks to how loudly it wears its Hades inspiration on its sleeve--even the title is seemingly a nod to Supergiant Games' seminal roguelike. This isn't inherently negative, and Redacted has some impactful ideas of its own. Yet, looking past the game's derivative design can often be difficult when it struggles to reach the same heights as its primary influence.
Much like The Callisto Protocol, Redacted takes place within the icey, industrial walls of Black Iron Prison. With mutated biophages running amok--turning prisoners and staff into hostile, zombie-like creatures--you're cast as a modest prison guard attempting to reach the penitentiary's final escape pod and get the hell out of dodge. Unfortunately for you, other survivors--made up of coworkers and inmates called Rivals--are trying to do the same thing, forcing you into conflict with biophages and humans alike.
Each failed escape sees your guard die and join the ranks of the infected while you begin a new run as another guard striving to reach the exit. Along the way, you'll accumulate various currencies, such as contraband and security codes, that carry over from one guard to the next, letting you purchase new permanent weapons, skills, and so on in the game's starting hub area. Aside from creating a gradual sense of palpable progression, this also ensures that failed runs rarely ever feel like a waste of time, as you're constantly making future attempts slightly easier.
It's a similar setup to Hades, challenging you to fight your way through four different zones in a single run, with a formidable boss waiting at the end of each one. Randomly selected battle arenas populate these zones, and you're given a choice of doors to enter after defeating every last enemy in an arena, letting you choose between being rewarded with various buffs (called experiments) for your current run or the aforementioned currencies that can help you in subsequent attempts. Again, much like Hades, you're given three of these buffs to choose from after clearing a room. One might increase your health or add elemental damage to one of your weapons, while others can alter how your firearm functions or augment your dodge with damage-dealing effects. These buffs can also be leveled up depending on the doors you choose, thus making you more powerful the longer you survive a run.
All of this eventually makes for a satisfying gameplay loop. I say "eventually" because Redacted doesn't make a particularly great first impression. You embark on each run equipped with two weapons--one ranged and one melee--but your initial options are lacking in the fun department. The pistol, shotgun, and assault rifle are slow to fire and lack any kind of gratifying punch. Meanwhile, the violent swings of your melee options feel labored and stilted, which sadly doesn't change even after unlocking every available weapon. Some of the potential buffs improve things, but then you're relying on the game's RNG to make combat enjoyable.
Fortunately, your ranged options do steadily improve, lending each fight a more frenetic and fast-paced feel as you unlock more permanent weaponry. Melting biophages with the scorching energy beam of the atom gun is delightfully pleasing, as is evading projectiles as you pepper enemies with dual blasters. It's still disappointing that melee combat quickly becomes an afterthought, though. Bashing an enemy upside the head is useful in spots, but I quickly learned to neglect melee buffs in favor of improving my firearms because it just isn't very engaging.
This results in combat feeling somewhat one-note, although the sheer variety of enemy types keeps you on your toes--forcing you to evade all kinds of projectiles, exploding mutants, and melee-focused threats. You can kick enemies, but I never found this to be a particularly useful skill. You also have access to The Callisto Protocol's kinesis-like GRP ability, letting you launch enemies backward to create breathing room or send them hurtling into various environmental hazards. Flinging a biophage into a vat of toxic green acid is certainly satisfying, but your use of GRP is limited.
It helps, then, that Redacted looks fantastic throughout. The game's comic book art style pops off the screen with a wonderful vibrancy, coating explosions and smoke effects in halftone dots as your resplendent attacks punctuate through the noise. This, along with the game's twin-stick shooting, is eventually strong enough to prop up Redacted's combat on its own, even if it does lead to tedium in the latter hours.
Before then, however, your first objective is to survive a run through all four zones and escape the prison. Once you've achieved this for the first time, weapon upgrades are unlocked and you're able to activate a plethora of difficulty modifiers to increase the game's challenge and earn extra rewards. Whether you're decreasing your overall health, adding a timer, or increasing the number of enemies in each room, there are multiple ways to shake up the experience.
You fight your past self, too, seeing as your most recently deceased guard will quickly join the undead ranks. Challenging one of your failed attempts to a battle is optional and basically boils down to whether they have an upgraded buff you might want to use again. Depending on the weapons and upgrades they had when they died, these zombified guards can be fairly formidable foes, and I never felt the reward was worth the considerable risk.
As for why you might want to escape Black Iron Prison more than once--there is a lone incentive. Unlike Hades, where the story propels you through one successful run after another, Redacted's stimulus isn't quite as appealing, but I'll get to that in a minute.
You see, amidst the chaos of each escape attempt, you also have to contend with the game's Rivals. These escaped inmates and former colleagues of yours are a one-dimensional assortment of stereotypes, from a Dungeons and Dragons-obsessed LARPer to a dreaded Karen and punk-rock Cockney. There isn't much of a narrative to speak of, with most of their dialogue focused on referential humor. There are a few funny moments, but the reference is usually the whole joke, whether they're name-dropping The Simpsons or Hades itself.
Where Rivals excel is in how they add another random element to each run. There are eight Rivals in total, but you only have to contend with three at a time. Like you, they're trying to reach the final escape pod first, essentially turning each run into a frantic race to the finish. You can slow down one Rival at a time and chip some life off their health bar by utilizing remote attacks. The catch is that they respond in kind, throwing a spanner into the works with gas leaks you need to hurriedly switch off and bombs you must avoid as they fall from the sky.
It's not all remote work, either. Occasionally, you'll come face to face with one of your Rivals in a mini-boss-style fight to the death. If you manage to kill them, that's one less person to contend with once you've reached the escape pod; otherwise, you're thrown into a gauntlet against everyone who survived. It's great stuff and stands out as the one element of Redacted that differentiates it from other roguelikes, adding a thrilling wrinkle to an otherwise familiar gameplay loop.
Once you've completed your first successful escape, Rivals also become your primary focus if you want to reach the game's end credits. Each one has a redacted dossier full of irreverent information about their lives, but it's the passcodes hidden within that you really want. Eight passcodes for eight prisoners, and you need all of them in order to open up a vault containing who knows what. This is Redacted's endgame, if you can call it that. So off you go, looking for the doors marked "Computer" scattered throughout each run. You can unredact a single paragraph from inside, of which there are 10 for all eight Rivals. That's 80 files to uncover, and the best-case scenario during a single run is to find, at most, four or five of these Computer rooms.
It's a lengthy endeavor. In total, it took me 17 hours to reach the end credits, encompassing 40 runs and 14 escapes. Your prize for doing all of this is a final do-or-die run back through the prison, where death means you lose all of your progression, and success means you unlock some new permanent gear. It's not the most enticing prize. After 17 hours, I couldn't imagine returning for more, especially when the only incentive for playing any longer was removed. Obviously, this isn't unusual, and Redacted still has a significant amount of replayability. It's just disappointing that the final reward is so lackluster when the journey to achieve it is a slog.
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, and it's hardly uncommon in the video game industry. Nonetheless, it's difficult to recommend Redacted when both Hades and its sequel exist and do almost everything it's attempting to do with much more aplomb. The Rivals system is a compelling breath of fresh air for the genre, and its combat is engaging--even if parts of it are severely lacking. There's a good game here, somewhere in the middle, once you're past the lackluster opening and monotonous ending. Redacted doesn't really expand on The Callisto Protocol universe, but I'm glad it exists. For as flawed as both games are, I still haven't lost interest in seeing more stories from this world, and I hope Striking Distance has a chance to tell them. Redacted just falls short a few too many times.
Call of Duty: Black Ops 2 remains my favorite of developer Treyarch's contributions to the long-running and sometimes formulaic shooter franchise, because it's the one that takes the most wild swings. It mixes traditional Call of Duty linear levels with a top-down, real-time-strategy-like experience that lets you move troops around the battlefield and then zoom down like a gunslinging ghost to possess any one of them and do the fighting yourself. It also logs your choices, your successes, and your failures, and adjusts its convoluted branching narrative to account for them.
The spirit of Black Ops 2 is alive in Call of Duty: Black Ops 6, and not just because it actually serves as a semi-prequel-sequel to that 12-year-old game. Black Ops 6 infuses the standard Call of Duty formula with level designs and mission ideas that challenge the usual Call of Duty framework in much the same way. It's not as brazen as Black Ops 2 was--that game was admirable for going all-out, but not all of its ideas were home runs in execution--and there's no branching narrative or major departure from Call of Duty gameplay in Black Ops 6. Instead, Treyarch works in creative but familiar design additions that break up and expand on its campaign, making for an experience that maintains the franchise's cinematic, high-yield explosiveness, while also providing numerous opportunities to feel like a super spy and super soldier.
There's a lot of story going on in Black Ops 6, but as is usually the case in the franchise, it's at once both pretty simple and weirdly complex. The gist is that, as part of a covert mission during Operation: Desert Storm, your CIA operative player character--a silent protagonist named Case--and his teammates Marshall and Harrow run into Russell Adler from Black Ops: Cold War. From Adler, you learn about The Pantheon, a paramilitary organization full of American ex-soldiers and others, operating secretly inside the CIA but with their own evil agenda. The rest of the game is about teaming up with Marshall, Adler, and Black Ops mainstay Frank Woods, recruiting a couple spies, and trying to figure out who The Pantheon is and how to stop them. It's all standard fare for a game like this.
It's in the missions themselves that things get a little less predictable. The covert operations thrust means that while you'll sometimes do missions where you just march forward and shoot guys in an approach that harkens all the way back to the beaches of Normandy and the first Call of Duty, there are also plenty of other moments where you need to be sneaky and careful. Your mission to bring aboard master of disguise Sev is a low-profile trip through mob enforcers, in which you listen in on a phone call and then assassinate an underling. You're more or less free to figure out your way into a well-guarded church belltower to set up for the shot. You can blast your way in or stealth your way through, and while the level isn't huge or expansive in an immersive-sim way, there are enough options that your choice of how to approach the problem feels meaningful.
There are a bunch of opportunities for stealth like this. Black Ops 6 isn't great as a stealth game--enemies are dumb as hell, their peripheral vision is basically nonexistent, and you can crouch-walk right behind them with zero consequences. But the weak stealth works because the density of enemies in any given area makes up for their lack of brains, and because of how great it feels to crack off a headshot with a silenced pistol on a soldier you forgot about right before he calls for help. Call of Duty's consistently great gunplay means that when stealth fails, it just leads back to what the franchise is best at. It also means you can save a scuffed attempt at sneakiness by fluidly taking out all the enemies in a room before they realize what's going on, and doing so is satisfying every single time.
Several missions use this combination of stealth, action, and freedom in approach to problems to solid effect. When you head back to Desert Storm, the mission takes on a sort of wide-linear design, where you jump in a car with your team and drive around a big map, completing objectives as you see fit. Scouting an approach, tagging enemies with a special camera that highlights them for you, gives the whole affair a Far Cry-lite feel.
The mission isn't as robust or systematically interesting as Far Cry, but that little extra freedom and planning is a great way to lead into Call of Duty's over-the-top battles when you finally start shooting. Your job here is to assault some big, well-defended Scud missile launchers, but you can also wipe out Pantheon camps to gather intel on the group's plans, save a band of crashed Delta Force soldiers, and knock out anti-air missile batteries to allow for air support. Completing the side objectives gives you Scorestreak rewards like the ability to call in an attack helicopter or an airstrike; coupled with the many gadgets Black Ops 6 includes, you wind up with a lot of creative, explosive ways to solve problems throughout the mission.
And to Black Ops 6's credit, this formula is never repeated. Instead, Treyarch fleshes out an idea for a single mission, uses it well, and then leaves it. There's a horror-themed level that gets pretty spooky, an infiltration level that pushes your spy abilities a bit, and even a heist level in which you play as each member of the team as they complete their portion of the plot, Ocean's 11-style. When you sneak into a Bill Clinton campaign event to get a senator's retinal scan, you get multiple options for how to set up a chance to photograph him; I followed his aid to learn about a blackmail scheme, stole the compromising material from the blackmailers, and then turned it over to the senator's wife in exchange for the shot I needed. You get a couple of opportunities to make choices like this throughout the campaign. They don't drastically change the overall formula, but they give you a little more agency and influence on how a mission shakes out.
The creative additions to Black Ops 6's missions are consistently fun and even surprising. While none of the levels blow the doors off in terms of new ideas--the horror level makes liberal use of Zombies from that game mode, the heist leans pretty hard on those somewhat-anemic stealth mechanics--they're tried-and-true additions that work well with Call of Duty's underlying gameplay. Black Ops 6 lacks Black Ops 2's willingness to take big swings, but it does add some solid variety to the usual Call of Duty experience, even if those additions are still a bit conservative.
In addition to Call of Duty's usual solid shooting mechanics, which make all the guns feel punchy, lethal, and exciting to use, Black Ops 6 throws the usual load of gadgets your way. The exploding RC car is back, and you can use things like an adrenaline shot that slows down time, a knife that homes in on enemy faces, and a throwable taser that stuns whoever it hits. All those items are available in most missions, and you can carry and switch between all of them, giving you more options for creatively addressing firefights.
In a fun twist, Black Ops 6 deploys Pantheon "elite" enemies that have many of those gadgets, too. For example, one hides behind cover and sends exploding RC cars at you, forcing you to shoot them before they reach you; another leaves taser traps all over the battlefield that will stun you if you get too close. Elites aren't in every battle, but when they appear, they force a change in strategy that's more interesting and thoughtful than what's needed to deal with the usual cannon fodder soldiers.
Gadgets give you some options for how you approach fights within the game, and you can also tune your playstyle in a few different ways by purchasing upgrades for your character at the safehouse where you spend time between missions. These exist along three different tracks, related to your physical abilities, weapons, and gear, and the system incentivizes you to scour missions for extra cash so you have the resources to purchase them. Many of the upgrades are similar to the perks you can choose in multiplayer, while others are minor boosts.
Early on, when your money is limited, the upgrade trees give you some choices to customize your play style--if you want more gadgets or to have their effects last longer, you can pay for those upgrades, but if you'd rather be quicker on the draw or carry more ammo, you can opt to improve those elements instead. Eventually you can purchase all the upgrades, which give you a lot of small enhancements that, taken together, make you a more powerful Call of Duty character. The upgrades give you a little more freedom and agency in tuning your approach to Black Ops 6, but none of them are so substantial that they'll drastically change how the game plays, even when you have them all. The upgrades are nice adjustments to the usual approach that fit well with Call of Duty's shooter mechanics, but like other additions, they're tweaks to that formula rather than significant edits.
There's also the new omni-movement system, which allows you to sprint, slide, and dive in any direction without losing momentum, and it feels pretty good in practice. Gameplay never demands you make use of the system, but it adds a little fluidity to gunfights when you run and slide into a new cover position or pull an action-movie dive as you unload on an opponent. It's generally a good addition that makes everything feel a little smoother in Black Ops 6, but I wish it got further emphasis or was amplified to be more necessary and useful.
A usual lament for these games is that the story can't keep pace with the gameplay, and that's the case in Black Ops 6 as well. Character dialogue is constantly oscillating between in-the-know military jargon and wall-to-wall cliches. Still, spending time with your team in one-on-one conversations makes for some of the best moments in the game, and Black Ops 6 gives you plenty of opportunities to do so in the safehouse. A big part of what makes Black Ops 6 engaging is its phenomenal performances, matched by excellent face scans and animations that capture a lot of nuance in the actors' portrayals. Everybody in this game looks great, and when they're not spouting off strings of cliches, quips, and idioms, there's a fair amount of emotion that makes them relatable.
In particular, new additions Sev and Felix are well-rounded characters, and I always found myself hoping for more of them. The game threatens to do particularly interesting things with Felix, a former East Berlin spy who defected to the West. Felix is a legendary operative and technical genius who has sworn off violence when he joins the team. You can question him about it a few times, always in a sort of "are you serious ... are you sure about that" kind of way, but Felix espouses clear convictions about how he feels and what he's done. It's a shame that, later in the game, his convictions aren't as core to his identity, but he at least has some great dialogue that explores his arc. If only the game had followed that thread further.
Sev is similarly cool and similarly underused. She formerly served the mafia family you help her dismantle in an early mission--after she was betrayed by the people she trusted, something she'll tell you about if pressed, she launched a bloody campaign of revenge. She might be the best operative on the team, and a mission where you play as her in disguise, wandering around an enemy camp finding ways to sabotage their equipment, is another winner, even if it's undercut a bit by the stealth system. Sev has a moment where Marshall doesn't let her join everyone else on a mission and she gets pretty angry about it, and while there are hints that this could be something to explore in her character as well as those of the rest of the team, Black Ops 6 never really digs in. There are several revealing and emotional character moments in the campaign like this, and it's a shame Black Ops 6 never commits to making them meaningful for the larger narrative.

I still don't really get the larger narrative, and the inclusion of elements like the digital Clinton cameo or a raid on a Saddam Hussein palace play like additions to try to make a weirdo story feel more realistic and less meaningless, without accomplishing either. Like a lot of these games, Black Ops 6 gestures in the direction of some larger point about spies and operatives fighting shadowy wars for unaccountable people, but eventually trails off without committing.
I got especially lost in a late-game turn where you spend a bunch of time inside the mind of the villain during an interrogation. It's a reminder that Call of Duty games often have the problem of acting like they expect you to know more than you do, and thus always causing you to feel like you missed something or are forgetting a crucial point. This person has appeared in, like, two scenes--should I know who they are? Were they in past games? Should I care about their moral struggles and tragic backstory? The whole sequence is an effort to humanize a character I had almost zero relationship with, so it amounts to a lot of illusory wheel-spinning. It doesn't help that surreal shattered-landscape-of-the-mind levels like this have been done to death by plenty of games--including Call of Duty, as they were basically the focus of Black Ops 3.
Your main player character, Case, also has weird "should I know what's going on here" moments that recall Alex Mason's brainwashing in the original Black Ops, but to much less interesting or goofy effect. It's a half-baked addition that doesn't have much bearing on the story except right at the end, making for a bewildering conclusion. There are a few things in Black Ops 6, like Case, the villain, and the overarching Pantheon conspiracy, that end up feeling like good ideas that just sort of peter out. While many people may not come to a Call of Duty game for the story, Black Ops 6 disappoints because it does occasionally come close to telling a pretty good one.
Still, the overall experience of Black Ops 6 is enjoyable, mostly due to its willingness to work in a variety of different ideas and approaches to its levels before bringing you back to the familiar and reliable shooting of a million enemies. Black Ops 6 is at its best when it gives you all its tools and lets you loose to deal with a problem as you see fit. It provides a lot of those opportunities, adding just enough to the underlying gameplay that you get the satisfaction of formulating a strategy and executing it, as well as the fun of dealing with the fallout, whether it goes to plan or not. Black Ops 6, like Black Ops 2, combines gameplay ideas to make something that feels a little different from the usual for Call of Duty, and while not every system or addition is a knockout, taken together, they make something that shows how Call of Duty games can grow without losing what makes the franchise great.
A Quiet Place has quickly grown into one of the better horror franchises of the past decade. Three movies deep, the creature features have explored a fascinating world in which blind aliens use a highly keen sense of hearing to hunt humans desperate not to make a single peep. Translating that incredibly slow and silent story universe to a video game makes for a novel project, and I can see why A Quiet Place: The Road Ahead has launched so quietly itself. It's a strange mission to assign players, but it's one I'm glad to have experienced--despite a host of issues.
A Quiet Place: The Road Ahead is a first-person stealth-horror game starring a cast of characters new to the series but similarly seeking to find safety from the swarm of aliens who have commandeered Earth by force. As Alex--an asthmatic college-aged woman with a boyfriend, a dad, and a range of other perpetually silent allies--players embark on a road trip that will test her ability to crouch-walk pretty much forever.
That design direction could easily make for a frustrating video game. In games that allow me to upgrade my crouched movement speed, I've always unlocked it as soon as I can--I like stealth games a lot and so I tend to want to improve that facet of such a game. So it's notable to me that The Road Ahead doesn't just demand you crouch-walk through almost every moment of its 7-to-10-hour story, but forces you to do it very slowly, usually barely pushing on the left stick, because the aliens in the game behave unpredictably like Alien: Isolation's Xenomorph and tend to hear even a crouched footstep performed at full speed.
This is made more complex due to the various surfaces and obstacles that you'll have to dodge in any mission. Debris such as tin cans, wood planks, leaves, and puddles litter the pathways between you and whatever typically minor environmental puzzle stands in your way of progress, like collecting and using fuses to unlock doors. Every step in this game matters, and that leaves you to understand quickly that you won't survive a rushed attempt to do, well, anything.
Early in the story, Alex pieces together a phonometer that quantifies environmental noise against her own noise-making. If the latter measure exceeds the former, the alien is liable to hear her, and depending on which difficulty you're playing on, she can only survive two or three blips on the alien's figurative radar before it's going to pounce directly on her, or at least rush over to where the noise was made.
In the best of the game's missions, the aliens are roaming freely in the space with you, while in others, they're unseen but erupt into a quick game-over screen if you've made too much noise. I found the alien to be extremely perceptive regardless of the difficulty, having played on all three--there's also an ultrahard "survivor" mode which seems impossible given the unforgiving adeptness of the game’s central monsters.
Doors and drawers have to be opened often, both to progress through levels, but also to seek out supplies like inhalers to treat Alex's asthma or batteries to power her flashlight. The process of opening any door or drawer takes, remarkably, 8-10 seconds if you don't want to alert the monster, which forces you to perform every action like a teen sneaking out of their house at night, only with much higher stakes.
These moments demonstrate, best of all, how The Road Ahead could easily not work for many or most players. I've never seen a game demand so much patience, but it's all in service of capturing the authentic feeling of the movies, in which the monsters are also hyperaware. Alex holds both her phonometer and her flashlight in her left hand, so she can only use one at a time. This creates a thoughtful trade-off that's constantly being considered: Would you rather see the dark path in front of you or do you need to quantify the noise you're making? The phonometer can help you know how alert the alien is to your presence, but without a flashlight, you're liable to bump into something so noisy that you won't need the photometer to tell you that you're screwed.
As the story goes on, both Alex and the monsters add tools to their repertoire. Alex can throw bottles and bricks, or lay planks--again, slowly and silently, or else--to create shortcuts through an area. Later in the game, things like flares for Alex and a scan the aliens perform that can identify any noise you make, even if it doesn't exceed the environmental soundscape, add additional layers to the survival story. She can even create shortcuts using the alien by throwing a brick through a window, which causes the alien to sometimes smash through the attached wall, letting her into a space that was closed off before. The game's unfathomably slow cat-and-mouse missions are its very best, even as some of them lack many or even enough ways to be this creative.
In general, I found The Road Ahead to introduce cool ideas routinely, but then it wouldn't always iterate on them enough. For example, you can find bags of sand in the world, which you use to create silent pathways in front of you, just like characters do in the movies. But every section that used sandbags offered too many of them, leaving me not to worry about creating the optimal path. Instead, I'd build a self-contained highway of safe passageways so I could always have an exit route if the alien was closing in, unaware of my presence. At some other points, throwable bricks are stacked in infinite supply. I wish I had to think about how I'd use these tools more than I did.
Checkpointing is occasionally frustrating, too. Usually, the game auto-saves whenever you complete a major section of an area, like assembling one of two or three total items you need to progress. The issue arises when one step in a multi-step process is so involved that starting even that portion over feels disheartening. In two different instances, I also had to reset an area due to bugs that plainly came off like a lack of polish. The first instance let me into an area meant to be closed off until I found a key. I hadn't found it yet, but assumed I'd just missed the fact that I had since I got through to the other side. I could see where I was meant to go next, but the game wouldn't let me do so because I'd wiggled into a purgatorial state where I found myself in the right place at the wrong time.
Something similar happened in the game's last level when I climbed a roof and elected to open a hatch given the on-screen prompt, but in truth, no hatch existed, which trapped me in the geometry and demanded I reset from the last checkpoint. It felt like a remnant from a previous version of the level. Similar to how the game doesn't always go far enough with its cool ideas, it can sometimes feel a bit unpolished.
Alex's asthma is gamified in that enough stress can set it off. This means both physical stress, like lifting heavy barrels to open up a pathway, but also more psychological stress, like spending time near the monster. Often, the creature will be just inches away. It's all as wonderfully tense as it should be, and that may set off a quick-time event in which you, as Alex, can have the asthma attack (and thus alert the alien). You’ll need to stave it off momentarily as you seek out inhalers or other aids, or completely overcome it with a perfect button press. I found these to be easy enough not to fail but I rarely perfected them, which is good; I didn't feel like the storm was over, so it became an additional concern as I'd tip-toe around the monster.
Along with her respiratory condition, Alex is also suffering in a few other ways I won't spoil, but I find her to be full of contrived circumstances meant as shortcuts to elicit player empathy. The overall arc of the story is enjoyable, but I was always mindful of how the writers threw so much on her figurative plate rather than drilling down on one facet of who she is to explain why I should care about her. The interactive element of video games is already an empathy bridge as is, so some of her backstory and the things that happen to her in the course of the story just feel like desperate piling on to make sure players are emotionally invested.
The extremely slow pace will be polarizing, but for me it was a job well done, even as it wasn't always done as well as it could've been. I find this novel pace to be a great quality to the game, and it never directly frustrated me. What got under my skin were tangential to this, its best quality, such as oddly barren audio settings and those aforementioned bugs.
I play all my games with headphones, and I was surprised to find this one, with such an intense focus on sound, doesn't offer even rudimentary sound options like switching to an output suited for headphones. As a result, the game often sounds flat when played with a headset. There is at least an option to let the alien pick up your mic audio, which I found works well thanks to custom calibration options. I toyed with it at different times but ultimately left it off for most of my playthrough given I have two kids and a dog in my house and didn't want Alex to die at the figurative hands of the Bluey theme song.
It may seem like I have a lot of complaints for The Road Ahead, and if you count them individually, my frustrations do outnumber the parts I enjoyed. However, I also find its novel stealth-horror approach interesting enough to merit seeing it for yourself; its best parts are greater than their sum. A patch could resolve some of the polishing issues--though given how this game was tossed into the world with little marketing, I wonder if the team is even assigned to do more with it.
A Quiet Place: The Road Ahead is a certainly flawed but also intriguing attempt to make a video game out of a premise that seems not to be conducive to this medium. Crouch-walking around a monster for several hours should've probably been a worse experience, but it proves to be a sound idea that may have been a cult classic if it only had more attention to detail.
Blumhouse Productions is arguably the biggest name in Hollywood horror today. The studio's ubiquitous logo appears before what feels like every other theatrically-released horror movie. It's clear the company has made the genre its focus, and I love that. It means there's always more to look forward to, even as results surely vary. With Fear The Spotlight, Blumhouse marks its debut in video games, which similarly excites me. Its games will also surely vary in quality, but this indie ghost story is a memorable debut, both for the burgeoning publisher and the pair of developers who built it together.
Fear The Spotlight stars Amy and Vivian, two high-school friends sneaking around school after-hours as soon as the game begins. Amy is dressed like a Hot Topic kid, while Vivian looks bookish. It gives the pair the air of an odd couple, but exploring their friendship while things go bump in the hallways helps introduce the story as they uncover a shady school history over the course of the game's initial three-to-four-hour campaign.
Fear The Spotlight uses a PS1-style aesthetic mixed with modern touches like an over-the-shoulder perspective. In many moments, the game also switches to point-and-click mechanics, mostly whenever the game's puzzles are being toyed with. It's both those puzzles and the game's scares that give Fear The Spotlight its gateway-horror vibe, and I enjoy it for that even if I'm no longer in the target audience. Though I love when games are especially terrifying, I also feel like younger or less-experienced horror fans deserve entertaining scares they can stomach. Not every game should be Outlast or Amnesia on the spooky scale.
Fear The Spotlight isn't very scary to me, but it would work well as an introduction to the genre for the right player. That's intentional on behalf of the two people who made the game together, so it's not that Fear The Spotlight falls short of its goal. It sets out to be a horror game for teens most of all, and the high-school setting and characters work well to serve that audience.
With no combat mechanics to speak of, this is more of an adventure-horror game than survival-horror. That's a subgenre that I've found over the years to be extremely difficult to pull off, as a horror game without much in the way of enemies or game-over screens can feel like it lacks stakes--and thus scares, too. But Fear The Spotlight works in several enemy interactions that play out in a hide-and-seek manner. You can't fight the monster at the heart of this dark story, so you'll sneak under classroom desks, library carts, and lunch tables, avoiding its gaze as best you can while sometimes solving puzzles right under its nose--figurative nose, that is.
Puzzles are a major part of the short story and abide by classic survival-horror tropes. Nothing is linear when you're moving through its world. Collapsed hallways are circumvented with tools obtained through multi-step processes involving reading notes that provide clues and tracing the steps of those who were there before you. You'll find weird locking mechanisms in doors that require crests, or strange dolls that need to be smashed in an order teased out via an odd poem nearby.
For fans of classic Resident Evil and Silent Hill games, the puzzles in Fear The Spotlight will feel familiar, though they have one quality that separates them from those genre forerunners: They're all much more contained. Rather than explore, say, a large mansion or a foggy town, where a puzzle item you find is actually needed many meters and perhaps hours from then and there, the puzzles in Fear The Spotlight tend to involve only a few locations somewhat near each other, like when they ask you to move between two hallways and four classrooms total. Just as the scares are toned down for a horror-beginner audience, the puzzles won't halt your progress for long. In a sense, they tutorialize the traditional design concepts of horror-game puzzles.
My biggest issue with Fear The Spotlight is its story. For a rather short game, it's trying to do a lot at once, opening with what seems like a bullying theme before diverting down a very different path. All the while, the game is trying to tell a more personal story between Vivian and Amy, too, but these pieces feel like a stitched-together afterthought. It never gets the screen time it should because the game spends most of its time obfuscating the truth behind its central ghost story. It presents a truth to the girls' relationship it intends to explore, but then never really does that, making their endpoint together feel unearned and glossed over.
This element is somewhat improved upon in the game's epilogue. At about 2-3 hours, it's more like a second campaign that further explores the events the girls' experience during their overnight stay at school. This campaign is better designed, as it's set in a single, creepy house with puzzles that are a bit more complicated, as though it builds on what the first campaign taught you even if you're a beginner to the genre. It's also scarier thanks to a new enemy who is harder to avoid, and it all comes together with a more robust, cohesive story than the primary campaign. It's only unlocked when you beat the main game, so you'll never see it first, but that makes it a stronger outro for Cozy Game Pals, the tiny studio making its debut with Fear The Spotlight.
This campaign happens to be the bulk of the work that the team did in the last year, after Fear The Spotlight was pulled from Steam so the team could enhance it, presumably as part of the publishing deal with Blumhouse. It winds up being a wise choice, as this second act is the game's better, more memorable one and even retroactively improves the first campaign in some ways. Together, they tell a more complete and compelling story, even as this second campaign does most of the heavy lifting.
Though I don't often love a retro aesthetic, I've found I'm much more into it in horror games--maybe that's my nostalgia talking--and Fear The Spotlight stands out well in this way. This is partly because it's not entirely faithful to the PS1 look it adopts. With lots more voice acting than true original PlayStation games and the over-the-shoulder presentation, it feels more like a demake of a modern game than something authentically capturing the era its sharply polygonal characters imply. The school looks great in this style, and it's clear the team has played and enjoyed Silent Hill, as some of its locations look rusty and hollowed-out like the Otherworld realm frequented in Konami's trailblazing series.
Fear The Spotlight is far from the scariest game you could play this Halloween season, but what may be read as a detriment for some is instead its best quality for others. With classically designed but more contained puzzles and combat-free monster encounters, it's a game that utilizes genre touchstones in manners meant to onboard new and/or younger players. Mechanically, it's simple, and the story doesn't come together until you've unlocked and finished the second campaign, but its combination of old and new horror-game design elements makes it a creepy and clever introduction to what is my favorite genre, and what may prove to be yours, too.
If you've already played Sonic Generations, you know what you're getting with the first half of this package. Sonic's adventure remains largely unchanged--most notably, the visuals are better, since this is a remaster--seeing the blue hedgehog team up with his past self to speed through a collection of levels inspired by his many previous adventures. Each level has two acts--the first sees past Sonic race through 2D levels while the second features modern-day Sonic running through the same space but now in 3D. Past Sonic handles much like he did in the original games back in the '90s, while modern Sonic utilizes the mechanics added to the series during the 2000s, like the homing attack and dash. The whole collection is a celebration of Sonic's career up to 2011.
In 2024, Sonic Generations feels outdated. While the old-school Sonic levels remain a timeless look back at the hedgehog's origins, the second half no longer feels like an accurate presentation of modern-day Sonic, as the gameplay of the franchise has continued to transform over the past decade. This doesn't outright ruin the original experience, though it does leave the conclusion of Sonic Generations feeling lacking, as if the trip through Sonic's greatest hits abruptly stops partway through. It leaves the three-hour experience feeling rushed in a way it didn't back in 2011.
The main draw of Sonic X Shadow Generations, however, is the Shadow Generations half of the game. This is the part of the game that's brand-new, acting as an accompanying story to Sonic Generations. Shadow Generations follows Shadow the Hedgehog, concluding the arc of his story that started in 2001's Sonic Adventure 2 and then continued in 2003's Sonic Heroes, 2005's Shadow the Hedgehog, and 2006's Sonic the Hedgehog. The thread was largely dropped from the Sonic franchise and hasn't been revisited in any significant way since.
Still suffering from amnesia and seeking answers as to his origins and purpose as the ultimate life form, Shadow is pulled into the same timeless space his friends were during the events of Sonic Generations, where threats from Shadow's past still exist. Notably, Black Doom, the satanic alien warlord responsible for Shadow's creation, returns after his death at the hands of Shadow during the events of Shadow the Hedgehog. A part of Black Doom lives on in Shadow and wants the hedgehog to relive significant moments of his life--in doing so, he'll remember who he is and unlock Doom powers. Once Shadow fully embraces these abilities, he'll truly be the ultimate life form and Black Doom will take over his body, allowing him to live again. Shadow plays along, unlocking new Doom powers in hopes of becoming strong enough to destroy Black Doom for good.
It's a fine enough conclusion for a storyline that many Sonic fans might have forgotten about (or perhaps weren't even alive for, given the last chapter of this tale occurred in a game from 2006) but Sonic games have rarely been remembered for their stories. If anything, much like Sonic Generations did for Sonic, Shadow Generations' story is a great opportunity to revisit some of Shadow's most memorable moments as well as past boss battles against other artificial beings that could be considered rivals to the title of "ultimate life form," like the Biolizard from Sonic Adventure 2. I was grinning like a kid again when Shadow faced off against Metal Overlord and Crush 40's "What I'm Made Of..." started playing, reminding me of the hours I lost to Sonic Heroes when I was 10 years old.
If you look beyond the layer of nostalgia, your mileage when it comes to Shadow Generations will vary. If Sonic games from the 2000s were some of your favorite games, you'll enjoy Shadow Generations. But if your taste in platformers skews towards more modern sensibilities, Shadow Generations doesn't offer anything new or noteworthy that you wouldn't have already seen done better in other games.
The game builds on established Sonic mechanics by giving Shadow a Chaos Emerald from the jump, allowing him to use Chaos Control and freeze time for a few brief seconds, slowing approaching enemies before they surround Shadow or stopping moving platforms long enough for him to jump between them. He can also use Chaos Spear to stun otherwise invincible enemies or hit far-off switches. In both cases, these abilities add to the experience of playing a Sonic game, creating room for more types of rudimentary puzzles that don't affect the flow of racing through a stage. They both help maintain a sense of speed from start to finish while also adding a bit of tension to the largely linear levels by testing you on your timing.
Alongside Chaos Control and Chaos Spear, Shadow will unlock new Doom powers over time that aid how he can get around. Perhaps the most interesting of the lot is a skill that lets Shadow knock a specific enemy type far into the distance and then teleport to the hapless victim to hit them again, acting more as a means of traversal than combat. In a few cases, Shadow has options as to where he can knock an enemy, allowing you to have some agency in where you go next to complete a level. This very rarely occurs, but whenever it pops up, it makes me want to replay the mission again if only to see if one of the other choices would have allowed me to complete the stage faster.
Most of Shadow's new abilities aren't as much fun to play with, however. Shadow eventually unlocks a skill that lets him transform into a gooey slug-like creature to swim through muck and Spider-Man swing from globules of slime--it's weird and awkward and ruins the sense of speed every time, and it frequently pops up as a mandatory part of progressing in a stage. Worse is an endgame Doom ability that's especially clunky and difficult to use, forcing you to control Shadow at speeds that are a tad too fast and can see you regularly careen over a stage's guard rails and into the abyss, forcing a restart at the last checkpoint. I had many frustrating deaths near the end of the game because of this particular Doom ability, and ultimately only got past the final levels by forcing myself not to use it and awkwardly jump through obstacles in a way the game clearly did not intend me to. In a game built around platforming that revolves around going fast, it's understandable that an ability designed for you to go even faster could be appealing, but when it comes at the cost of going so fast that you then have to course correct and slow things down even more than usual, it feels like said mechanic would have been better off avoided altogether.
These Doom abilities also feel strangely juxtaposed against the vibe that Shadow Generations is a trip down memory lane for Shadow, as they're skills that Shadow has never had before. In comparison, Sonic Generations features mechanics inspired by Sonic's adventures, like the colorful aliens that gift Sonic's unique abilities from Sonic Colors. Admittedly, if Shadow Generations did the same thing, it would be yet another Sonic video game with the protagonist sundering fools with pistols and assault rifles since one of Shadow's most noteworthy traits is that he's not afraid to shoot people, and I could see the Sonic Team not wanting to go down that path again. But it still feels so out of place to see Shadow utilize abilities we haven't seen him use before when the game is a celebration of Shadow's journey that reminisces on his previous adventures.
These new abilities have uses within the hub that Shadow returns to between each stage. Here, the abilities feel better, transforming the 3D space into a playground where Shadow's accumulation of Doom traits allows him to explore more and more of the space. With each new ability, you can traverse further, finding collectibles and--more importantly--small challenge levels that you need to complete to earn the keys that unlock the doors to the boss rooms.
The challenge levels feature an assortment of tasks that require you to make your way through a part of the main stages with a specific restriction or task. A challenge level might require you to beat a level with only one ring, meaning you can only afford one mistake, for example, while another might see you have to reach the goal within a time limit while also defeating a certain number of a specific enemy. They help alleviate what I otherwise would imagine to be a repetitive game, adding interesting skill challenges that shake up the established formula between the main levels.
Aesthetically, Shadow Generations doesn't have any bad levels, pulling from Shadow's adventures through fantastical locales and sci-fi factories. They're all a visual delight, especially at full speed where their bright colors and careful signposting intuitively guide you forward toward the goal, all in pursuit of getting the fastest time possible. The music is also excellent. Most of Shadow's past adventures featured rock music perfectly suited for the most angsty of teens and, graciously, you can change the music for any one stage to some of these past songs, like "All Hail Shadow" or "I Am...All Of Me."
Sonic X Shadow Generations is a weird package. On one hand, Sonic Generations is a remaster of a great game from 2011 that now feels like it's a little outdated. And on the other, Shadow Generations is the conclusion to a storyline that the franchise hasn't really cared about since 2006. As someone who specifically got into Sonic games during that early 2000 period, this collection feels like it speaks directly to me. But it also feels much like its protagonists--lost in a place out of time and desperate to return to fonder times. It's a nice enough trip down memory lane, but the trip features all the speed bumps you'd expect from games from that era.
Horror games based on beloved movies are more popular than ever, even when you compare this era to the early Nintendo years when movie tie-ins were a lot more common. But most of these modern takes on famous horror monsters have gone in the same direction, for better or worse. While everyone else is offering asymmetrical horror multiplayer games, RetroRealms turns back the clock to offer a package more in line with those horror tie-ins of decades ago, and thanks to some charming nods to horror history and pixel-perfect platforming, it's an uncommon and intriguing ode to the horror genre.
As a product, RetroRealms is sold in a peculiar manner. RetroRealms Arcade is itself a free 3D hub space that you can explore in first-person, combining touches of a classic arcade with a horror museum. Within that space, you can purchase one or both 2D 16-bit platformers available at launch, Halloween and Ash vs. Evil Dead (AVED). For this review, I've played both games and used all current characters available.
Like Dead By Daylight, RetroRealms uses the idea of a demonic Big Bad, The Overlord, to bring its otherwise disparate worlds into one multiverse. The villain's goal is a bit unclear and the story in general isn't trying to be more than set dressing, with each playable character getting their own McGuffin to chase through any of the game's multiple campaigns. The simple conceit paves the way to let you run through elaborate levels as Michael Myers, Ash Williams, and--if you buy additional character DLC--Laurie Strode from Halloween and Kelly Maxwell from AVED.
Because the game is a collaboration between Boss Team Games, a studio I recently learned is fully committed to licensed horror adaptations, and Wayforward, one of the best 2D game studios going today, RetroRealms shines in ways that exemplify what each team brings to the table. In the former's case, this is expressed through the game's explorable hub where you can unlock 3D versions of items seen in the game's multiple campaigns, like Michael's famous blue jumpsuit or his even more iconic mask. There are also several developer diaries you can unlock and watch, which I found appealing, though usually I wanted them to go longer or be more numerous. A cool one available right away goes into detail on how the game reimagined Halloween's theme song--perhaps the most famous horror theme in movie history--for a retro-style video game.
Decisions like that, which allow the team to pull back the curtain and show players how things came to be, make for great rewards. Even the props in the museum, though they don't do anything but look cool in their cases, are desirable collectibles to chase. Filling out the entire museum isn't a feat I've yet accomplished, but it's something I'm compelled to do as a big horror fan. I think there's room to do more with these features, and given the teams' intent to make RetroRealms a dynamic platform--at least two more horror franchises are coming to the game in the future, Boss Team told me--hopefully they're expanded on to be even more interesting and numerous.
While the 3D hub serves as a constant reminder of the reverence the team has for the genre, the real star of this new horror multiverse is the platforming gameplay. Wayforward's expertise shines in every corner of its levels, with vibrant pixel art full of details in the background and foreground, as well as tight traversal and combat mechanics that consistently challenged me.
Enemies fill every level high and low, and they each display obvious attack patterns that are nonetheless difficult to avoid. Some may throw a propane tank into the air roughly every three seconds, so you quickly learn to time your advance, but just ahead is a gross eyeball shooting sludge horizontally at you, while a platform nearby that you need to progress onward or use to grab an optional collectible overhead is rising and falling at such a speed that maneuvering through all obstacles and landing on it takes patience and perfection. But it's all executable thanks to responsive and nuanced controls, like a jump ability that subtly extends your leap based on how long you hold the button down.
Across the board, the game's animations are instructive as you learn to duck, ground-pound, and, most importantly due to its invincibility frames, dodge-roll like you're the horror legends' personal dance instructor. You'll take note of how an overheard or ducked melee attack is slightly faster than a standing horizontal stab, which helps take down trains of enemies more quickly and without taking damage yourself. You'll learn exactly how much distance you can cover with an air dash, or for how long you can hang on the side of a wall before you must launch yourself off of it. Every frame of the game matters. It's all done with intent, and utilizing these subtle differences is often the deciding factor between success and failure.
Players who have longed for arcade experiences that are unforgiving but mechanically reliable will find a gem in RetroRealms. I died frequently, especially early on, but I never felt like the game was being unfair to me--it's often ruthless, but it's never cheating. I expect to enjoy watching high-level players take on these campaigns just as much as playing them myself.
Those tight mechanics are deepened further thanks to how each character has their own moves and abilities. Playing as Michael Myers, for example, isn't going to feel the same as playing it as Ash Williams or Laurie Strode, even when the game allows you to bring them to each other's worlds to see its multiple campaigns through new lenses. They may all be able to clear the gaps of the same size, but Michael does it with a single leap, while Laurie uses a double-jump ability, for example. Their skill trees further separate them, as you can create different builds, like one character that is especially hearty when it comes to health, allowing them to fight at close range, versus another who is loaded up with plenty of ammo for their ranged attack.
This will particularly appeal to the game's speedrunning community that's certain to arrive once it's available, as different combinations of levels, characters, and abilities will surely be researched by players seeking to find the optimal builds to climb the leaderboards in a manner that harkens back to the arcade days much like the game does as a whole.
However, I find character progression to be one area where the game could've been less harsh. Upgrades are tied to campaign-specific save slots, not characters. For example, in one campaign, I'd upgraded Michael Myers a lot, giving him more health pips, more ammo for throwable items, and unlocking several skill moves that made combat easier. But when I took Michael into Ash's world, none of those new toys came with him as it was considered a new campaign with a fresh character. This is one way in which the game adheres to a more punishing style from the '90s that doesn't seem vital to the experience. One could argue this keeps the leaderboards purer--I can't speedrun an overpowered character on the first try; I have to earn a new OP character for a new campaign--but I think the alternative approach, in which you could max-out a character for a grueling challenge elsewhere is more enjoyable and still allows players to compete with the same rules governing all of them.
Similar to how characters are more than just skins, levels include an added layer that makes the game better. At any point, players can switch from the more earthly version of a level to the Dark Realm. The change is instantaneous and essentially makes every level behave like two levels. You can't stay in the Dark Realm forever--an upgradeable timer ticks away and then demands a brief cooldown when it reverts you to the natural world--but you'd not want to stay in that realm forever anyway. As hard as the base levels can be, the Dark Realm is often harder, with more and heartier enemies who take more than the standard single hit to die.
Sometimes it's vital to enter the Dark Realm, like when a blockage in the normal world disappears in favor of a fleshy, gross passageway in the Dark Realm. Other times, you may only want to visit it to check for collectibles, like tickets you use to buy items in the hub's 3D museum. Flashing from one world into the other adds a layer of skill to a game already full of skill checks. It's things like this that highlight how talented Wayforward is. The levels are great without this touch, but the team goes to the extreme to add depth, giving some mechanics the air of a victory lap from a team making it look easy.
Like the character progression, the game's levels do exhibit one especially unforgiving element. Though checkpoints for when you fall off screen are fairly abundant, losing all your life resets the entire level back to the start. A popular modern convenience many games use is simply not to do this to players, and to allow a more generous checkpoint system that I've found to be the right approach. RetroRealms chooses to lean toward the old way of doing things, and that sometimes led me to take breaks from the game rather than fill me with the urge to give it the classic "one more try."
Levels aren't very long, but if you want to be careful and find all collectibles, they can stretch to 10 or 15 minutes each, so to wipe all of that in a game that is already quite hard often feels too taxing. Again, this seems like it's designed with leaderboard purity at heart, but in that case, I think a compromise could be found in which players who use checkpoints don't make it on the leaderboards but can still progress through the campaign.
Thankfully there's a checkpoint before all boss battles, which are also quite challenging, though even then, if you're struggling and wish to come back to the game later to try again, you'll lose all level progress when you close the game. This isn't a big deal on Xbox where the platform's Quick Resume feature could bail you out, but on other platforms, you'll more likely have to choose between keeping this checkpoint intact or playing something else when you feel like it.
A few retro-inspired design choices aside, it's a great game overall, and the audiovisual experience is the blood-red cherry on top. Though none of the campaigns are truly retelling stories from their respective properties, the characters look so cool and well-realized--Ash even comes with Bruce Campbell's crucial likeness--and each character is complete with diverse and sometimes funny idle animations. The worlds they inhabit are richly detailed to the point that even the game's best speedrunners ought to slow it down on some runs just to take it all in. Things are always in motion, even when you can find a moment of respite away from all enemies who would do you harm, and the music feels like it arrived from a time machine set to 1994. Though I'm full of '90s nostalgia that doesn't typically extend to video games, RetroRealms blurs the line between being authentically retro and contemporary cool.
RetroRealms' first two "cabinets" arrive in style with excellent platforming gameplay, an authentic '90s vibe, and an interesting first-person 3D wrapper of a hub world that reminds you the game isn't just mechanically tight; it's also horror-obsessed. Boss Team and Wayforward prove to be a compelling tandem with this game, and given the team's intentions to build out its arcade with additional famous (and sometimes masked) faces, I'm hopeful RetroRealms can go the way of the slasher series and get several sequels of its own.
Mortal Kombat 1's time-twisting campaign ended on a high note, as the introduction of various timelines signaled a wealth of opportunities for future installments. Khaos Reigns is the first DLC expansion on the story, in which a Titan version of the anarchic villain Havik tries to throw Liu Kang's version of the world into his own brand of chaos. The only chaotic force at play here, though, is the storytelling, as this expansion is plagued by rushed story beats and a boring, monotonous structure.
Khaos Reigns features five chapters--one-third the number in the main campaign--with three of those focusing on the three new roster additions: Cyrax, Sektor, and Noob Saibot. The two chapters between Sektor and Noob follow two main roster characters, Rain and Tanya--albeit in new Emperor and Empress variants, respectively.
Every one of these chapters plays out the same way: A cutscene eventually bleeds into a pre-fight dialogue, then the fight happens, followed by post-fight dialogue, and repeat. There is no variation to this structure, which means that a story themed around chaos and anarchy instead feels confined and frustratingly rigid. That theme seems like a natural fit for some experimentation, whether that's quick minigames or gauntlet-style matches against multiple opponents, but alas none of that is found here--a point made to feel even more uninspired by the fact that this format is also how the story of the base game played out.
The cutscenes are hurt by weak dialogue, whether it's lines that sound like they were pulled from a thesaurus--who uses the word "expeditiously" over "quickly"?--or cringe-inducing attempts at banter between Johnny Cage and pretty much any woman that crosses his path. Of course, Cage is supposed to be a pompous, wannabe ladies' man regardless of the timeline, but some of these lines sound so forced, it's hard not to roll one's eyes along with the character to whom he's speaking.
Another maddening part of Khaos Reigns is how quickly story beats with massive potential are wrapped with little to no conflict. For example, a major deception teased by Bi Han and Sektor is addressed and concluded in the very same chapter, without any real room for the story to breathe. In fact, this argument could be made for the story as a whole, as the Khaos Reigns story ends so abruptly, it could cause whiplash. After chapter upon chapter of being told Titan Havik is a menace, his eventual defeat leaves a lot to be desired.
These narrative issues are a real shame, too, as the expansion also adds elements to the core game experience that give plenty of new things to discover. Each of the three aforementioned new roster members offers a fun and unique style that thrives on experimentation--Sektor's ordnance and quick-drop attacks make her a formidable foe, while setting off a Cyrax bomb just right for a follow-up combo is incredibly cool every time. Meanwhile, the shadowy, portal-summoning tricks of Noob make him the most interesting character of the three; a few of his combos are jaw-dropping when pulled off correctly.
There's also a new way to finish off opponents in Animalities, where a character transforms into a wild beast and dispatches their opponent with primal flair. Even among the over-the-top kills seen in normal Fatalities and Brutalities, some of these new Animalities are incredibly gruesome, thanks to the impressively detailed representations of these animals.
Mileena's mantis transformation is the most harrowing, as watching her chew into her poor opponent's head with a realism that rivals real-world nature inspires equal amounts of smiles and sickness. Others hearken back to Fatalities from previous games, like Noob's double-crocodile Animality, which calls back to one of his Fatalities in Mortal Kombat 9.
On the other side of the coin, Rain turns into a giant pufferfish and explodes his foe from within in silly fashion, while Peacemaker morphs into a clone of his pal Eagly and the two rain down an American-themed whooping with hilarious results. Finishing moves in modern Mortal Kombat games have always been an exercise in over-the-top evisceration, and have only grown more visceral as technology has advanced. The Animalities on display here might be the best example yet of how far the imagination can go.
Neither the new roster additions nor the amusing Animalities, however, are enough to overcome the weakness of Khaos Reigns' story expansion. Where the original story of MK1 concluded with a sense of open-endedness, Khaos Reigns instead sets a surprisingly low bar for future narrative elaboration. Titan Havik isn't the only villainous MK character out there, obviously, and perhaps another expansion should one occur will explore another villain's vision for the MK universe, but any future story DLC will suffer from the same fate as this one if the accompanying story is similarly rushed.
It should be noted that there are three more characters still to come, each of them guests from other IP: Ghostface from Scream, the T-1000 from Terminator, and Conan The Barbarian. All three could add even more variety and fun to the roster after Cyrax, Sektor, and Noob Saibot's strong showings, but they won't be able to cure what ails the story at this point.
Unfortunately, the excitement of that original Mortal Kombat 1 ending is gone, and in its place rests a trepidation and unease over where the story might go next. Fittingly, it seems this once-promising story has been thrown into, well, chaos.
After a significant post-GameCube slump, the Mario Party franchise showed signs of new life in its first two titles on the Switch. While both Super Mario Party and Mario Party Superstars were commercial successes and well-received by fans, the former leaned a bit too heavily on a new Ally system while the latter was essentially a "greatest hits" of classic maps and minigames. As the console approaches the end of its lifecycle, Super Mario Party Jamboree ends this Switch trilogy by attempting to find the sweet spot between its two predecessors and stumbles into an issue of quantity over quality in the process.
One aspect that Jamboree inarguably has going for it is sheer quantity. Nintendo touts this entry as having the most playable characters (22) and most minigames (112) in any Mario Party ever. A big roster isn't necessarily a bad thing, although I have one nitpicky complaint about Bowser's inclusion. I've got no beef with the man—he's been a playable mainstay since the SNES after all—it's just the fact that him being playable means that the "Bowser" that appears as the antagonist throughout the maps and modes is constantly referred to as "Imposter Bowser," which feels a little hamfisted and unnecessary. Just take him off the playable roster or have some new placeholder villain, we don't need a fake Bowser with spooky purple lines and PlayStation symbols surrounding his body all the time.
With that important complaint out of the way, let's get to the party. It's been a while since we've been treated to great original maps. Super Mario Party's were lackluster, and Mario Party Superstars featured five solid ones but they were all from the Nintendo 64 era. Jamboree's offerings are a satisfying mix of five new maps and two returning favorites. The five new maps are better than Super Mario Party's offerings, with the standouts being Roll 'em Raceway and Rainbow Galleria. Only two retro maps made their way in, but I'm very happy with the returning Mario's Rainbow Castle (the first Mario Party map) and Western Land (from Mario Party 2).
Each new map has a gimmick, of course. Mega Wiggler's Tree Party features the perpetually sleeping-or-pissed-off Wiggler in the center, and you can ring a bell to move him around and create new paths. Goomba Lagoon surrounds a volcano that erupts and creates dangerous spots, as well as a tide that ebbs and flows to obscure parts of the board. Roll 'em Raceway puts your characters into race cars, which could trigger some Mario Party 9 and 10 flashbacks but it's actually done well this time. Rainbow Galleria is a three-story mall that has you going up and down escalators and collecting stamps for coin rewards. King Bowser's Keep (manned by the aforementioned and stupid Imposter Bowser) has players navigating perilous conveyor belts and attempting to open a vault of potential riches. The two retro maps feature minor tweaks and changes, but are mostly prettier versions of the classic maps you remember.
Games in the traditional party mode will feel familiar to anyone who has ever played the series. You'll pick your characters, set the turn count, and get to collecting coins in the effort to gain more stars than the others. You know…Mario Party. There are a couple nice changes and additions--like the timeline at the bottom of the screen that lets you know the order of turns and board events--but the biggest tweak to the usual format lies in the Jamboree Buddies and Showdown Minigames.
Jamboree Buddies are characters from the series that will appear on the board at various points during a game. If you can get to them in time (they disappear after a few turns), you'll trigger a Showdown Minigame for everyone in which the winner gets the Jamboree Buddy's company for the next several turns. These minigames are significantly longer and more involved than the traditional ones. Wario puts the players through a lengthy game show segment, Mario presents a three-game gauntlet composed of standard minigames, and Donkey Kong triggers a bongo-based rhythm game that gives each player time for their own solo. Some are a lot of fun, like Yoshi's platforming race or Daisy's coin-collecting challenge. Others tend to drag and go on far longer than you'd expect. Between these Showdown Minigames, duel games, versus minigames, item games, and more, that 10-turn game you selected might feel more like 20+ turns by the time you're done.
If you win the Jamboree Buddy's company, benefits can range from inconsequential to game-changing. DK can launch you to random spots on the board, Luigi helps you roll bigger numbers, and Bowser Jr. can set traps for your enemies, for example. But the biggest potential boon is their ability to let you purchase two stars at one time. If you've got 40 coins and you happen to reach a star space in the few turns that your Jamboree Buddy is with you, you can shift the leaderboard very quickly. If another player passes you on the board at any point, however, that Jamboree Buddy will jump ship to their side. It's ultimately a better and more intentionally limited system than the omnipresent ally feature in Super Mario Party, in which your sometimes multiple allies could give you an unfair advantage in dice rolls and minigames for the duration of a game.
Super Mario Party Jamboree has the unenviable task of following Superstars, a game composed of the best minigames throughout the entire series. Ultimately, the quality difference is noticeable. Most of the new minigames are fine at best, with some standouts like Slappy Go Round, Prime Cut, and Unfriendly Flying Object. But for every genuine crowd-pleaser, there's one that would make me groan when it popped up. Gate Key-pers is my least favorite, featuring five keys and three locked gates. Players laboriously rotate through turns as they randomly use keys on doors and try to memorize which combinations were already attempted. It takes forever and really slows down the pacing, which is something numerous minigames are guilty of this time around. More than one minigame also features the mechanic of "pick one of these things and hope no one else picks the same one or it doesn't count," which has never been fun even once. I expect a certain amount of nonsense and randomness in a Mario Party game, but Jamboree feels like it's leaning too far into it at times.
A few games in, I started wondering why I was seeing so many repeat minigames. After all, Nintendo touted Jamboree having the most ever, right? It wasn't until I played all of the modes that I realized what was going on here. Sure, there are 112 minigames, but almost 50 of them are exclusive to side modes that you might play once or twice and be done with. So that 112 is almost halved if you're spending most of your time in the party mode, which is what I assume most players will want to do.
From a hot air balloon that hovers over the various islands of Jamboree, you can select between the other modes. Those range from "decent distraction" to "why did they include this?". Three waggle-based modes lie on Motion Island. Paratroopa Flight School feels like a bad Wii experiment. It has you and an optional second player flapping your Joy-Con-wielding arms to soar around the map to collect coins and Para-biddybuds or participate in a wonky Crazy Taxi-like delivery game. It is not fun. Rhythm Kitchen supports up to four local players, and offers some genuinely fun minigames based on cooking and rhythm, but wrapped in a vaguely-scored chef battle format. I really wish the minigame ideas from Rhythm Kitchen had been incorporated into the standard party pool, as there are some good ones in here but this mode will not be getting a lot of play in my house. Toad's Item Factory feels like an early iPhone game and has you tilting and rotating your Joy-Cons in an effort to guide a ball into a hole. I'd imagine most people will play this once, and I'd have greatly preferred a handful of new minigames in the party mode instead of this addition.
A real eyebrow-raising tease in the trailers for Jamboree was the mention of a mode that supports 20 players. That would be the Koopathlon, which puts 20 live players (or bots, depending on how full your game is) on a race track. You advance by collecting coins in various minigames, all of which are exclusive to this mode. These are lengthier than your usual minigames and are frequently repeated. By the third time you're taking rolls out of the oven before they overcook, the thrill of racing 19 other players is diminished significantly. There's a kernel of a great idea here--Mario Party has room for a mode that features tons of players and big minigames that take inspiration from Fall Guys or the battle royale genre, but this doesn't feel fully baked.
Bowser Kaboom Squad is another online mode that lets you party up with seven of your friends to take on a CPU-controlled Imposter Bowser. Its minigames are unique in that they feature eight players in a co-op environment. You'll work together to arrange cards in order or stop Bob-Ombs from destroying a castle gate, and these games can be hectic fun in the vein of Overcooked. Only 10 minigames are present in this mode, and when you're not participating in one, you're running around a map collecting bombs to launch at Imposter Bowser. If you perform well in the minigames, your team will be granted helpful items like gloves to carry more bombs or dash pads to deliver bombs to the cannon faster. It's fun if you get a group together, but I really can't imagine how often people are going to be calling up seven friends for a round of Bowser Kaboom Squad.
The modes don't end there. Minigame Island features numerous ways to play the full assortment of minigames, including free play, a daily challenge, and a playlist of only Showdown Minigames. Party Planner Trek is a single-player mode that has you completing tasks, playing minigames against CPU opponents, and collecting mini-stars as you explore the five new maps.
A lot of this ends up feeling like bloat. Having more modes can be a good thing, but I feel like the amount of mode-exclusive minigames encroaches on how much I enjoyed the core party mode. It's like Nintendo wanted to cram as much in to make this a fun experience even if you're solo or have only one friend over, but Mario Party has always thrived when it's you in a room with three buddies. There are so many great solo and two-player experiences across every console. That's not what I'm looking for in Mario Party. Plenty of fun ideas are present in each mode, but if they were incorporated into the main party mode I feel like this would be a much more appealing total package.
Some of the moves they've made to increase longevity are appreciated. As you play you'll accumulate Party Points which you can spend on an expanding assortment of stickers, music tracks, and reactions. There's even a Battle Pass-like system (don't worry, you can't spend money on it) that has you unlocking new rewards as you rank up your player level.
In a surprising move, Jamboree also introduces a Pro Rules option to the base party mode. I expected this to be a toggle that simply turned off rubberbanding, but it's actually more complex than that. It attempts to remove some randomness from the chaos by announcing the (one) bonus star at the start, allowing players to choose an item to begin with, limiting shop items, and placing signs around the map that determine possible next locations for the star space. It removes several random elements--you won't find Chance Time or hidden blocks here, and minigames are voted on out of a limited selection like in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe online.
It's an interesting idea, but it really doesn't strip the luck elements out of the Mario Party experience at all. At one point near the end of a Pro Rules game on King Bowser's Keep, I had 130 coins and no stars. Imposter Bowser covered the map in Bowser Spaces and I landed on one. Pro Rules dictate that if you land on one, you lose a star. Since I had none, he opted to take all 130 coins from me. So even in Pro Rules, you can be completely screwed beyond your control with the random roll of a dice. And with no Chance Time spaces or hidden blocks, the chances of an exciting last-minute change of fortune are effectively zero. At that point you're just rolling the dice and limply participating in minigames as you wait for the game to end, which isn't fun at all.
Many new elements are attempted in Super Mario Party Jamboree, and unfortunately I feel like a lot of them are unwelcome. The new modes are largely duds, the tantalizing promise of 20-player online falls a bit flat, and several of the new minigames are a slog. That said, the new maps are the best original ones in many years and Jamboree promises to still be a blast when you've got some friends over. I've reviewed many Mario Party games over the years and it's always a weird series to assign a number to. During the review period you get to play the occasional online session with Nintendo reps and fellow games media members, but a lot of time is spent exploring the maps and minigames solo. In this form, the faults of the game are laid bare and you see it with clear eyes. But once you grab a few close friends and you're laughing with it over a few beers, the deeply flawed game turns into a raucous night of camaraderie and laughter. Jamboree is no more or less nonsense than any Mario Party, and it's one I'll still be playing a ton of despite its flaws.
It's the bottom of the ninth in the fifth and final game of the Super Ultra Championship of the Universe Series. My Mighty Monsters are trailing by two runs and down to their final out. Kenny Kawaguchi, the league's best pitcher coming off a record-setting season for strikeouts, is at the plate. No one would doubt his repertoire at the mound, but his strength has never been in the batter's box. With runners on first and third, the count goes full--could it be any more dramatic? The 3-2 pitch screeches inside, but Kenny makes great contact. Incredibly, the ball is launched. The kid only had four homers all year, but this one could count for much more. It's high enough if it's got the velocity. Back, back, back… gone! The Monsters win! A walk-off three-run blast from the team's pitcher sends the squad of neighborhood pals into the history books of the Backyard Baseball League. Do you believe in miracles?
My true story of sports heroics took place roughly 24 years ago on one of those colorful Mac computers many had in the late '90s and early aughts. Backyard Baseball, once handed out merely as the prize inside a cereal box, would go on to become an institution in the lives of Millennial kids everywhere, and if you're around my age, you might have some nostalgia for it yourself. Over a quarter-century since the game first debuted, Backyard Baseball '97, as it's now officially called, has debuted on Steam--where shady download links and eBay price gougers can't hurt you. It's been great to discover the game still holds up, even as it's also very obvious that I am no longer the target audience.
Backyard Baseball '97 is a re-release of the original game that kicked off the Backyard Sports series. Under new rights-holders, the plan is to bring back several games lost to time, eventually paving the way for a Backyard Sports multimedia universe. With such grand plans for the future, the first release of the bunch has thankfully turned out great, and could feasibly serve as the series' grand re-opening. It's said that the game is remastered, though I can't see how. Every inch of it looks identical, not just to my spotty memory, but also when I compare it to gameplay videos online.
The colorful 2D sports game stars a roster of 30 diverse kids, each of them with their own attributes, voice acting, theme song, nickname, bio, and personality. It's these kids, even more than the solid beginner-friendly baseball mechanics, that make Backyard Baseball timeless. You could poll any number of former fans, and every last one of them would be able to tell you about their favorite characters and the memories they have of them.
There's Pete Wheeler, the not-so-bright speedster who can steal any base--provided he knows which way to run. There's Keisha Phillips, a towering young girl with an affinity for telling jokes and hitting dingers. There's the Webber twins, Sidney and Ashley, who come from the rich side of town but aren't afraid to mix it up on the diamond with kids from other walks of life, so long as they're on each other's team. There's Achmed Khan, a music-obsessed kid who plays every game with headphones on, and his little brother Amir, who looks up to Achmed in such an endearing, little-brother way.
Of course, the most unforgettable of them all is Pablo Sanchez, nicknamed The Secret Weapon. In reality, he's sports' worst-kept secret. There's nothing he can't do, and even as the games were hard to obtain in recent years, the legend of Pablo has been revisited many times, with real-life athletes paying tribute to him in different ways. Virtually every team starts with Pablo, but each and every one of the kids is well-written and feels like a fully realized character; they're all charming in their own ways.
That focus on personality and leaning into the magic of childhood continues onto the various fields themselves. There are several different parks you'll play at, each of them capturing the make-do spirit of neighborhood kids putting a team or league together. There's Tin Can Alley, with its defense-friendly high walls and short outfield due to things like a dumpster and truck container getting in the way. Sandy Flats is played on a beach, with an outfield "wall" made from a windswept fence in the sand. A few of the kids' own backyards are settings for games, like Ernie's Steele Stadium, where homers land in the neighbor's pool, and Kimmy's Eckman Acres, complete with professional landscaping surely paid for by her parents.
Each setting feels like it could be the scene in a similarly styled cartoon, like Hey Arnold or Recess, and playing the games themselves continues this vibrant and youthful spirit. A commentary crew consisting of uber-professional Sunny Day and comically bookie-coded Vinny The Gooch talks you through each game, relating scoring plays to nabbing Halloween candy and commenting on the game's special pitches, like a Slo-Mo ball that cartoonishly defies Newtonian physics.
Everything is recontextualized for a kid's-eye-view of the world. Between at-bats that come to life with earworms in the form of walk-up theme songs, players also constantly chirp phrases at one another, such as, "We want a batter, not a broken ladder!" The field is never quiet, just like it in real life whenever a group of kids gets together. Each inning sounds like a sugar rush and looks like a weekend with friends. There's magic in the air.
More than anything else, Backyard Baseball owes its timelessness to these qualities. It's a colorful world that feels familiar and relatable but also presents a richly detailed alternate universe where every character is someone's favorite and every game is fun to play. In 2024, Backyard Baseball '97 remains overstuffed with personality. I used to speculate part of the reason these games disappeared is because in later sequels they began to seek out licenses from leagues and players' unions, such as the MLB and MLBPA, which perhaps became prohibitively priced. Newer games included several pro players, like Randy Johnson and David Ortiz to help sell the game, and I thought maybe the creators saw this feature as non-negotiable. But I never cared for those players anyway; I always wanted the original Backyard kids. They're the true stars of this series.
Solid baseball gameplay mechanics aid the memorable people and places of the game despite a novel control setup. Backyard Baseball uses point-and-click mechanics not unlike the other titles in the library belonging to the game's original publisher, Humongous Entertainment. It may sound odd for a sports game, but it works well. Pitching and batting come down to placement and timing on both sides of that exchange, and different levels of on-screen help can make batting, in particular, easier to do, like pitch-locator UI elements that help you line up your swings better.
On the field, you simply click where you want your players to go, and the one nearest to where you've clicked will move there to meet the ball's can't-miss shadow, allowing you to perform feats like turning a double play or catching a fly ball. Players will tag up and try to score after you've caught a fly in the outfield, and though you can't attempt baserunner pick-offs, staffing a solid catcher can mean the difference between preventing a stolen base or letting them slide safely into second.
Errors can still occur, so it's important not to put a kid with lesser fielding attributes in a high-volume position like shortstop or center field, and by playing with your kids a lot, you may come to find where they best fit, after which point you can adjust their spot on the field or in the starting nine easily in the pause menu. I like having Pete and Pablo in the outfield because they're so fast, while Stephanie Morgan basically demands to play shortstop--and that's fine with me, since she's great at it.
The game's simple controls make learning easy for kids or anyone who doesn't usually play games. I have fond memories of when I was younger and Backyard Baseball actually inspired my dad to make a team and play through a season too--and he's essentially never played video games in his life.
However, given that I do play games and I'm no longer a kid playing this at the turn of the millennium, it's clear that I've passed the game by in some important ways, too. It's a children's game, and a great one at that, but even on the game's hardest settings--in which I've fully upped the difficulty, removed the pitch-locator tools, and have even consciously chosen to ignore power-ups like an aluminum bat that guarantees a home run, or a scorching fireball that is effectively too fast to hit, the game sadly doesn't present a challenge anymore.
My first game was tough for a few innings, and up until the fourth inning, I had only five hits as a team in a scoreless game. But then my batters came alive and I ended up beating the CPU 22-0. Future games in my march toward championship glory unfolded similarly. It was like it took me a few at-bats to re-find my timing, and once I found it, the game's stakes were sent to the dugout. As I began to apply self-imposed restrictions, score differentials were reduced, but I never felt threatened in a way that provided the compelling drama of my first championship a quarter-century ago.
This isn't exactly a flaw of the game; it's clearly designed for kids. However, in reviving the project, the team chose not to tweak anything despite knowing the nostalgic series would surely bring adult fans back. There's a purity argument I'm sympathetic to in this case--game preservationists will enjoy that the game is identical to how it was before--but that means many won't be challenged enough to stick around for long. In that case, such fans are almost better off waiting for Backyard Productions--the new rights holders with multimedia intentions--to bring the game's awesome characters to life via a TV show or, perhaps, a totally new game with a higher difficulty bar for those who want it.
With only pick-up games and a season mode on offer, the game also seems to miss an opportunity to do things like add multiplayer, co-op, or other modes that modern technology allows. My hope is a modding community can spring from this re-launch, and perhaps the new studio behind the series is even banking on that, too.
A "remaster" of this game more in line with the usual meaning of the word feasibly would've included quality-of-life updates. Yet, Backyard Baseball '97 seems not to have given any attention to that part of the game. One of its greatest exploits always was and remains an ability to fool CPU baserunners into advancing when they shouldn't. For example, if a CPU baserunner safely hits a single, rather than throw the ball to the pitcher and invite the next batter into the box, you can simply throw the ball to another infielder or two. Before long, the CPU will misjudge this as an opportunity to advance, letting you easily catch them in a pickle.
You can do this as many times as you want to; you always could, and you still can in this new Steam version of the game. Much like the way I had to consciously opt out of using power-ups on offense or defense to make the game a bit harder for myself, players of all ages will have to find their own moral fiber and not resort to cheesing the CPU just because doing so might be convenient when trying to win a game. Not everyone knows this trick, but for those who discover it, it's like returning a lost wallet to its owner; it falls on you to do what's right.
Still, if that's a parents-and-kids teaching moment waiting to happen, then it's one of many this game offers, and that's usually a great thing. The game is a fantastic experience for young players overall, and having their parents, siblings, or other loved ones right there beside them, perhaps teaching them video games, baseball, or both, feels like a setting conducive to new magic being conjured with this roster of diverse characters and the sports league they're obsessed with.
I once enjoyed the game as a player, back when I was in the middle of the game's target audience. Today, I'm well outside of that, but the game has taken on new meaning to me now that I have kids of my own. Because the core gameplay remains fun and easy to learn, passing down my favorite characters to my kids has been a heartwarming joy, and watching their favorites emerge has been exciting. I can't really play this game competitively anymore; I've outgrown it in that sense. But I could never outgrow these vibrant kids that helped shape my childhood, and I'm confident other parents, whether they grew up with the game or not, will sense a similar magic when they play it with their kids, too.
nan
Unlike the contentious launch of its predecessor, Diablo 4 arrived last year with a reasonably strong foundation that Blizzard has nurtured thoughtfully in the months since, giving its first expansion much less heavy lifting to do in the hearts and minds department. Diablo 4 doesn't necessarily require an overhaul, but that's what it feels like it's getting next to its biggest content addition yet. That means you don't have to own Vessel of Hatred to enjoy some of the most exciting changes arriving alongside it, but without it you would be missing out on the game's most dynamic class yet, which makes Vessel of Hatred a blast to play.
If you've been away from Diablo 4 for sometime then you'll be happy to know that Vessel of Hatred isn't designed solely for those who have stayed engaged in demon-slaying since launch last year. If you want to hop right into the campaign of the expansion, you're given the option to do so with a new character from the start, so long as you've completed at least the prologue in the base game. The updates since Diablo 4's launch coupled with the sweeping changes made by a far-reaching update that goes live with the expansion enables this approach, making leveling substantially faster to get you to endgame activities by the end of Vessel of Hatred's campaign. The changes to difficulty also remove any tedious grinding, letting you select your preferred difficulty and having all areas and enemies scale accordingly. These, along with more subtle changes to damage, health, and resource figures, as well as the lower level cap, all make Diablo 4 feel fresh again. That's especially true if you haven't been keeping up to date with it over the past year.
Vessel of Hatred's story picks up after the events of Diablo 4, an indeterminate amount of time after Lilith's defeat and the subsequent imprisonment of her father, Mephisto. Neyrelle, one of your core companions, has been shepherding Mephisto with her and bearing the brunt of his mind-twisting torture, venturing deep into the new region on Nahantu in search of a prison that might hold him. Meanwhile, the Cathedral of Light has its own crisis of faith thanks to a misguided campaign into hell and a new leader who is all about punishment over redemption, threatening its very existence in the wake of many of its followers perishing. This establishes a dual-antagonist threat, one with the Cathedral pursuing Neyrelle to pin its failures on, and the other with the growing power of the Prime Evil she's carrying. Yet despite this, both of Vessel of Hatred's main villains feature surprisingly little during its campaign, only manifesting once you're ready to vanquish them. This stands in contrast to the persistent threat of Lilith in the main Diablo 4 campaign, whose presence was tangible as you raced across the region to put an end to her machinations.
Vessel of Hatred is a continuation of that story, but Lilith's absence is profound. This isn't helped by a large portion of the campaign acting as a crash course on background for the expansion's new class, the Spiritborn. These ferocious warriors are able to tap into an entirely different realm of reality where the spirits of all beings, both past and present, reside, letting you draw on their power in order to protect this peaceful sanctum. There's a lot of time spent on establishing this new lore and introducing key characters in its legacy, tying them into past events that are meant to give weight to the current conflict. But this comes at the expense of diminishing the higher-stakes conflict unfolding around you, relegating most of its progression to the last few moments of the campaign. It ultimately leads to an unsatisfying ending that requires a surprise twist that feels unearned, setting up the true conflict for the future just as the story finally starts becoming engrossing. It makes Vessel of Hatred feel like an awkward middle chapter to a larger story, being used to mop up loose ends from the first entry while setting up a finale and offering no meaningful story of its own to tell.
Thankfully, playing as a Spiritborn is anything but a letdown. This new class combines fast and fluid melee combat with the affinities of four different spirit animals: the Eagle, Jaguar, Gorilla, and Centipede. These boil down to different playstyles; Eagle attacks, for example, deal lightning damage and generally stack well with the Vulnerable debuff, while Centipede lets you spread vicious poison damage around groups of foes quickly before letting you burst them down with chained attacks. Initially it's tempting to move through the skill tree focusing on just one affinity, leaning into pure Centipede or Jaguar builds. But once you start mixing them together, it's easy to see just how malleable the Spiritborn really is, giving this class more depth than those that came before it.
I initially found a lot of fun with the Centipede abilities, particularly ones that turned poison damage into an infection of sorts that would bounce between afflicted foes as they attacked or died. It reminded me a lot of the playstyle I adopted in my early time with Diablo 4's Necromancer, where crowd control was key. Eventually my Spiritborn evolved into using a build that removed Centipede skills entirely and settled on a mix of abilities from Eagle, Jaguar, and Gorilla. Each provided a key pillar to the build, with Eagle's devastating quill attacks forming the foundation of damage dealing, Jaguar's attack-speed buffs letting me deal that damage incredibly quickly, and Gorilla's defensive skill keeping me both alive and free of any debuffs.
This, in combination with an evasion skill that sometimes seemed like it was doing more damage than anything else, resulted in a fast-moving Spiritborn who could turn large groups of enemies into nothing almost instantly, and held its own in the expansion's many (and delightfully mechanically-varied) boss fights. But I still feel like this is just the tip of the iceberg. There's already a few other entirely new variations I'm excited to try, especially some that work well by leveraging specific gear that can make even basic-attack builds viable again. If you aren't too concerned with Diablo 4's ongoing story and hope that the new class is enough to justify Vessel of Hatred alone, the Spiritborn does so in spades.
Vessel of Hatred benefits from the many changes that will be free to all Diablo 4 players, especially with regards to how the game has changed to better support single-player. The new difficulty settings that replace the original World Tiers even out progression throughout the entire game to remove some frustrating progression hurdles, while the speed of character leveling has been increased to a more satisfying pace.
What is exclusive to the expansion, however, is the addition of Mercenaries. After unlocking each one through a small introductory mission, these NPCs will follow you into battle when venturing out alone, bringing distinct abilities to complement your own. You can choose from mercenaries that soak up damage for you and counter potentially fatal damage by crowd-controlling enemies, or choose a more direct damage-dealer to pile on the pressure with you. If you're not playing with other players, you can select a mercenary to venture at your side as well as a second, supporting one (called a reinforcement) who only jumps in when you specify actions. Once you're in a party with other people, you still retain the use of your reinforcement, making your individual mercenary progression matter to a degree irrespective of how you plan to enjoy playing Diablo 4. Their inclusion is more profound, however, when playing alone, and mimics the dynamics of a real party closely to add another aspect of combat to think about.
In addition to the Spiritborn class and the new region of Nahantu (which measures around the same size of as a single region from the base game), Vessel of Hatred introduces two new ways to rapidly level up your character and engage in new twists on the established dungeon-crawling formula. The first is the Kurast Undercity, which has shades of the Nephalem Rifts introduced in Diablo 3's Reaper of Souls expansion. Each venture into the Undercity is a new run with randomly generated enemies strewn across one of these locales, with each one featuring three floors you need to clear before taking on a boss. The twist here is that each run is time-limited. You're initially given just 100 seconds to play with, with your run ending once the timer expires. Various enemies on each floor can help you extend that time, encouraging you not only to pick targets carefully but also focus on quickly dealing lots of damage. Optional objectives on each floor also contribute to the level of rewards you'll receive on completion, forcing you to balance your time between progressing through each floor and taking risks to increase your bounty at the end.
This combines into a highly rewarding and engrossing experience, distilling the thrills of clearing a dungeon in a condensed, adrenaline-fueled skirmish. Even when a run didn't go my way, I never felt cheated of my time, especially since loot is rewarded even on failed attempts. As you progress through Vessel of Hatred, you'll obtain items that let you increase the difficulty and add combat modifiers to earn specific types of loot, providing a feeling of freshness while also giving you another outlet for productive grinding.
The second is the Dark Citadel, a new raid-like activity that provides a weekly incentive to return and attempt some of the hardest challenges Diablo 4 offers. Available only once you've unlocked Torment I, the Dark Citadel isn't necessarily something you'll encounter unless you're the type of player who is invested in spending a lot of time honing your character over hours and hours once you've hit the level cap. It's understandable why this is the case, given that The Dark Citadel is meant to challenge your fundamental understanding of both your build and that of other players, but it's still a pity that it'll likely be an aspect of the expansion that many players don't get to experience as a result.
This event is split up into three distinct dungeons, with each wing of the citadel featuring various floors of enemies to clear and light puzzles to solve. The dungeons, which require 2-4 players to cooperate through, routinely split players up to achieve objectives independently that determines your progression as a team, meaning each member needs to be able to carry their weight. Boss battles at the end of each wing accentuate this, with these multi-stage skirmishes requiring you to figure out their various puzzle elements and then execute on the solutions with both speed and precision. It's a true test of your understanding of both your character build and how it synergizes with the rest of your party, and is a fine addition to the existing endgame content that has evolved positively since the original release of Diablo 4.
Vessel of Hatred acts as a great reentry point for lapsed Diablo 4 players looking for another fix of the dungeon-crawling action that the original release so deftly introduced. The Spiritborn class is as satisfying to command in skirmishes as it is to experiment with, featuring a level of depth that extends beyond all classes before it. Both the Kurast Undercity and the Dark Citadel are captivating additions to the existing (and drastically improved) endgame conten. The expansion is only let down by a middling story that fails to captivate on the setup of the base game and ends with nothing more than a tease for the presumably real conflict to come. Irrespective of that, Diablo 4 didn't need an expansion to uplift it, but Vessel of Hatred certainly delivers on making the entire thing feel fresh again.
Despite several recent successes in remaking classic horror games, there's been one project that seemed to be an enormously daunting, if not impossible, task: Silent Hill 2. For some, the game represents the holy grail of the survival-horror genre, with its uniquely dreamlike mood, haunting monsters draped in metaphor, and an oppressive atmosphere as thick as the titular town's signature fog. Depending on who you ask, Bloober Team has either been auditioning for the reins to this series or liberally cribbing from it for years with games like Layers of Fear and The Medium. Now, in cooperation with Konami, all that groundwork has led to the team's remake of Silent Hill 2, and the end result is a meticulous, loving, and stunning recreation of one of horror's most significant efforts.
Silent Hill 2 stars James Sunderland, a man who arrives in the dreary town of Silent Hill in search of his wife, Mary, who has written him a letter begging to see him again despite allegedly dying three years ago. For James and the player alike, this classic horror story setup of an amnesiac surrounded by ghouls soon peels away like dead skin, revealing a series of surreal nightmares that blend moods and aesthetics in ways that purposely confound and unsettle. This ultimately gives life to something that may feel familiar to players, if only because the original Silent Hill 2 has been such a prominent genre touchstone for more than two decades.
The town and its inhabitants behave like the setting and characters of a dream one may half-recall upon waking. Moving through Silent Hill often defies basic concepts of what a town even is, evidenced by the enormous fences cloaked in dirty sheets that abruptly end some avenues. They look as though they exist to quarantine the town from the outside world, but the thick fog envelops so much of the space that it also immediately and ceaselessly feels like no other place possibly exists.
It's as though Silent Hill is not a place on a map, but a place in one's mind, and the game expertly toys with its lack of clarity in this regard. It ignores Euclidean geometry in favor of decrepit hospitals, labyrinthine apartments, and archaic prisons that, once breached, reveal themselves to be impossibly vast, dark, liminal spaces. James is not welcome there, and as much as any sensible person would turn around and head for the exit, a vaguely felt hand of fate pulls him deeper into the town at every turn.
Conversations between James and other travelers lost in the fog of the town unfold with a similar air of unreality. The virtual ghost town is home to a sparse few, each of whom seems to have been called to the locale subconsciously, much like James. People say things that couldn't possibly make sense to someone like him, a stranger who has only just arrived, or the player, who is right there with him. But when James seems to accept their words at face value, it has the intended effect of estranging you as the player. It's like inverted dramatic irony, where the characters seem to know something you don't, but they're not hiding it from you maliciously, either.
You're not meant to understand it much, at least not always, and certainly not right away. Early conversations reveal this strange quality, and before you can determine if you're missing something, the game has pulled you too far into its central mystery to merit an early exit, much like James's own experience.
All of these phantasmagorical qualities of the town are made even more special by an incredible soundtrack from longtime series composer Akira Yamaoka, who returned for this project along with a few others from the original game. Yamaoka's score is unforgettable, even as it's often deliberately at odds with the events you're seeing on the screen. Some compositions are touching and sweet, but become corrupted and creepy when they're used during darker moments, like when a seemingly orphaned young girl claims to have been friends with Mary, and the growing hostility of her accusations is wonderfully juxtaposed against the tranquility of the music.
In the remake, Yamaoka has rearranged several of the original game's songs, which are as mesmerizing as they ever were. Having heard the original songs so many times, I noticed some of the differences immediately, but I never found the new versions lacking. There's an ever-present danger in Silent Hill, so when that's upended with legitimately beautiful music, it only further drives home the town's anomalous nature. Like James, it leaves you struggling to grasp your feelings and questioning everything you thought you knew. Feeling haunted shouldn't also feel so delicate, but routinely, Yamaoka strikes this improbable balance, like a siren's song hypnotizing you toward a vicious undertow.
It may seem long-winded to focus so much on the game's atmosphere, but it's vital to understanding exactly how this remake turned out so well. The mood of Silent Hill 2 was not only intense in 2001; it was one of a kind, and since then, it's often been imitated. Only now, in Bloober Team's remake, has it been duplicated. Whether the team could perform this specific task has been the cause of doubt in some players' minds leading up to this game. It felt unattainable, but Bloober Team has rebottled the magic, and horror fans everywhere are the beneficiaries, whether they expected it or not.
Beyond just its music, the game's sound design is remarkable, and so much of its tension is owed to that incredible quality. Again, it leaves the world feeling like it's beyond comprehension. The remake moves the perspective away from the original's fixed camera angles in favor of a modern over-the-shoulder view, a change which may have dampened some of its scares if the team wasn't careful. Instead, the environments host a cacophony of inhuman noises, metallic grinding, and subtly soft whispers that lead you to wonder what is around any corner.
Very often, enemies are there, but sometimes, they aren't. This prevents a formula from ever being relied on. Once, I was tormented by the room-shaking stomps of an unseen beast beyond the reach of my mostly ineffective flashlight as I solved a puzzle, assuming a boss fight would soon follow my solution. In the end, I never met the creature, whatever they were, but it's that build-up of tension I'll remember more fondly than any firefight I could have had.
Such new experiences are common in the Silent Hill 2 remake. Every inch of the town has been lovingly recreated and, in many cases, expanded upon, but it keeps intact the essence of the original game's unforgettable environments. For those who've already experienced the original Silent Hill 2, you'll find the same major story beats reoccur in the same key locations in this remake. Even the original game's multiple endings return with seemingly identical (and still somewhat vague) requirements for achieving each of them. But just as Bloober Team has built in two new endings, it's also expanded on the town itself. The original game would take new players about eight hours to beat; the remake roughly doubles that. It's much bigger than some may have anticipated, and yet, paradoxically, it still feels faithful.
A lot of this expansion is done in the game's indoor environments, where Bloober Team seems to feel rightly justified in making things more complex and larger in scale. James's descent toward an unforgettable reveal is both figurative and literal. These places, often fit with bottomless holes, rusted-out mazes, or, in one case, an absurdly long stairwell, are naturally conducive to experimenting with level design in a way the town's early streets aren't. They already defy logic, whereas the town's various roads and buildings, as unreal as they also feel in some ways, still support the facade of a typical town when you're viewing them on a map in the game.
Indoors or out, those maps are also very helpful in ways that build on what the original offered. James will scribble notes on his maps, with puzzle answer keys eventually going there for ease of use. He'll also add question marks, which can be read as "go here next" indicators, exclamation marks that signal important items to pick up, and he'll even circle previously locked doors once you have the means to open them.
This helps the game's many puzzles feel manageable, especially as some are wholly new. Yet even these additions feel roundabout and confusing in ways both satisfying and familiar to those who frequent the genre, such as needing to find a can opener to open a can of red paint, in which you dip a lightbulb to simulate a red light that exposes a hidden message on a mirror, thereby allowing you to unlock a briefcase stashing a key for a room elsewhere in a massive hotel. It can sometimes be daunting to play games like this for review before crowdsourced answers to what's stumping you can be found online, but Silent Hill 2's map system helped me get through sections with the appropriate amount of stumbling so I felt challenged but never stuck long enough to become frustrated.
Sections that may have taken only 30 minutes in the original game now may take two to three hours to complete thanks to how the remake has expanded on certain parts. That isn't to be taken as unnecessary hour-padding. I rarely felt like any section overstayed its welcome; only one late-game area felt overlong. Every other sequence does a fantastic job of diversifying its enemy encounters, building out new puzzles, and giving players more room to explore and rewards for doing so, like stashes of ammo and health kits, as well as a new collectible I suspect is tied to one of the game's new endings.
The remake improves on the original game's combat as well. The 2001 version's combat was never well-polished, but it did offer a vital quality of unreliability--it was exactly because the game's shooting and melee attacks were so janky that you were left uneasy in that game's tight corridors. In the remake, Bloober Team effectively carries forward that important trait, albeit more intentionally than before. The remake is not beholden to early-2000s hardware, so combat is sculpted to fit the narrative as opposed to just being tricky because of technological restraints.
Aiming a gun isn't easy, as the reticle sways just enough to make lining up a shot achievable without ever letting James feel like a skilled marksman. Some enemies can be spotted in their hiding places before they've jumped out at you, but they have a knack for making their move at the exact moment you plan to fire a preemptive shot. A late-game rifle also takes a few seconds for the reticle to center, making a quick shot liable to be off-target, but the alternative of waiting for it to right itself often feels like an eternity as enemies are bearing down on you.
These qualities are very much welcome--Silent Hill 2 mechanically handles like a modern-day shooter, but the aforementioned features add a cumbersome nature to how James moves in a fight. The protagonist isn't a trained shooter, so he shouldn't feel like the characters in Call of Duty or Resident Evil. There's a rewarding sense of skill to Silent Hill 2's combat, but strategy is geared toward trying to aim a single shot, not time many shots. Its enemy encounters are methodical, deliberate, and intense. A shotgun you find midway through the game is the best of the guns since it can instantly snuff out most targets--which is vital in a game where even just two enemies feels like too many. Thankfully, it isn't a crutch you can safely lean on, as ammo for it can be scarce, especially if you stick to the main path and don't explore optional areas.
Melee combat especially shines. Enemies invade James's space frequently, and his only defenses beyond guns are a sturdy slab of lumber--swapped out later for a metal pipe--and a dodge mechanic that was never there in the 2001 game. This dodge ability pairs well with the enemies' way of constantly encroaching on you, and the game demands you learn their attack patterns and physical tells in order to stay on your own two feet.
As the game went on, I became increasingly aware of just how tense combat was making me feel. As I'd dodge, fire, dodge, swing, panic-fire, and swing once more, the camera would stay in close, shaking with each hit, making me feel every attack. Downing an enemy isn't the end either, as they can sometimes get back up. Early on in the game, I found myself wailing on downed enemies in a manner one could only describe as overkill just to ensure they didn't return to life seconds or even many minutes later. I never retired this method, either. Eventually, when I was satisfied that I'd removed a group of enemies from an area, I commonly observed my breathing return to normal and felt my shoulders release their tension.
This was never truer than in boss battles, which smartly reject health bars or really any signposting other than giving you space to avoid attacks and leaving you to figure out the rest. It could easily be frustrating to give players a boss battle without direction, but for Silent Hill 2's bosses, like so much of the game, the unknowable is the point. The solutions are never complex, so squirming in the moment right at the start ends up being another achievement in selling the tension of trying to survive a horrific ordeal.
The only issue I had with the remake's improved combat mechanics is how abundant ammo--pistol ammo particularly--and health items can become for players who search every corner of an area. I expect a more mainlined player will struggle to make ends meet in James's inventory supply, but for those who leave no door locked, no car window intact, and no drawer closed, you'll sometimes wind up with far too much ammo and too many health items.
This wasn't always the case, but in two lengthy sections of the game, I'd amassed a triple-digit number of pistol bullets and over 20 health kits, which reads like too many resources in probably any survival-horror game, and that was indeed the case here. To its credit, I did eventually exhaust most of that ammo in boss fights soon after, though I also beat the game without ever dying. Still, my 18-hour journey on normal difficulty was incredibly tense throughout, and though I never saw a game-over screen, my numerous close calls were more than enough and perhaps even more satisfying than having to restart a section anyway. On hard-difficulty runs and/or after a future patch that may rebalance inventory and combat, this problem could fade away.
Another of the game's best feats is how it transposes the original's grime, grit, and rust into an aesthetic that is high-fidelity but never sanitized. Enemies, like the iconic nurses James encounters in a hospital section, are still a mess of sickly oils and unnervingly featureless faces, their misshapen skin stretched like an ill-fitting bedsheet. The even more mysterious Otherworld James sometimes ends up in is every bit as oppressive and hostile as it was in 2001.
The lofi PS2 aesthetic that the game naturally enjoyed back then is today a nostalgic North Star for indie devs who grew up on games like Konami's classic. Such art direction does allow for a quality that's hard to define and perhaps pound-for-pound more interesting than a typical triple-A look, but the remake doesn't lose anything for having better facial animations, stronger voice acting, and a more richly detailed world. These attributes only make the game's famous and oft-studied final moments affect me greatly despite knowing what happens beforehand. The two games exist side by side for being outstanding in many of the same ways, just for sometimes different reasons.
The original Silent Hill 2 is one of the most beloved, culturally significant, and overall best horror games ever made. It appeared to be the case that trying to recapture the magic of that game was to misjudge how impactful its time and place were, and how its limitations helped shape it for the better. Any studio advancing on such a project should've had a Sisyphean task ahead of them, forever chasing its essence like a moth with a hole in your net. However, by staying true to the original game in extremely important ways and taking calculated risks born from an understanding of the source material, all while being supported further by some of the game's original brain trust, Bloober Team has done what was reasonably considered near-impossible. The remake of Silent Hill 2 is a restless dream come true.
Metaphor: ReFantazio is acutely aware of the role religion and politics play in society, and is more than willing to have conversations some would rather avoid. Furthermore, it is a game that understands the important role fiction plays in helping to establish our most fundamental beliefs, and it does not take that power lightly. Thus, the game begins with its narrator asking the player an important question: Do you believe that fantasy has the power to drive real change? Yes, my heart sang. Yet there was a part of me, cloaked in that aforementioned anxiety, that hesitated. Do art, fiction, and fantasy mean much in a world ravaged by bombs, inequality, injustice, and starvation? I wasn't so sure. By the game's end, however, I felt certain of my answer.
Metaphor: ReFantazio is a brilliant game packed with adventure, charming characters, heartfelt stories, and elevated versions of Atlus' signature gameplay, art, turn-based combat, and sprawling dungeons. It's also an extraordinarily earnest title that offers comfort to those who need it and asks players to have hope for tomorrow, the people around them, and themselves. By the time my 80 hours with Metaphor came to a close, I felt lighter--younger, too. Its themes and various stories were somehow restorative, and its set pieces brought me back to the RPGs I grew up playing--the ones that shaped me and made me long for companionship and grand adventures. Metaphor is Atlus at its strongest and most sincere. It's the type of game that reminds you of the idealist you were, the person you'd like to be, and how fantasy can shape reality.
Set in the Kingdom of Euchronia, Metaphor: ReFantazio follows a young boy whose initial mission--deliver a message to a contact in the north pertaining to the rightful-but-comatose prince--evolves into an epic journey. We discover early on that our protagonist was a close friend and confidant of the prince, and longs for nothing more than to see the idealistic young man take the throne following his father's suspicious death. However, the prince has been cursed, forcing him into a deep sleep until the handful of people who know he is alive can find a way to save him.
While the prince's slumber might be peaceful, his future kingdom is anything but. Giant monstrosities, cheekily referred to as Humans, roam about destroying villages a la Attack on Titan, while social issues turn neighbor against neighbor. Minutes after your character stumbles into Euchronia's capital, Grand Trad, he witnesses a series of hangings. On the ground next to him, a dog-like Paripus--one of the game's handful of tribes, or races--begs for money. We come to find out this race is often treated with extreme cruelty, making it hard for them to find honest work or even exist in the same cities as tribes viewed more favorably. This sort of prejudice is something the protagonist is familiar with, as he is an Elda, the most reviled of all tribes. In fact, the nation's religion claims his very presence is a bad omen. Yet despite his Eldan heritage, the protagonist ultimately decides to do the impossible: Enter the first-ever royal election to win the hearts of the nation's voters in order to secure the prince's throne and get close to those who cursed him.
The ensuing adventure is one I will never forget, filled with soaring highs, tender moments, devastating losses, and plot twists that, even if you can see them coming, present themselves in unexpected ways, creating a sense of anxiety that echoes what our heroes feel. When I spoke to Atlus developers earlier this year, they mentioned that they were focused on creating a sense of journey in Metaphor: ReFantazio. They accomplished this mission with gusto, as traversing the world in your hefty Gauntlet Runner--which acts both as your mode of transportation and home away from home--feels akin to taking a road trip with your close friends.
As you trek to new locations, plenty of events and options present themselves to you, ensuring that the game's simplistic traversal never feels dull or leaves you wishing you could operate the vehicle yourself. I never tired of sparring with Strohl, listening to Heismay share his laundry woes, or playing a game of chess with Hulkenberg, all of which level up your social stats as well. I adored the moments when Neuras--the Gauntlet Runner's driver and chief mechanic--would yell down the stairs that we needed to come see something. The party would then gather to look out at a captivating scene, whether it be the gut-wrenching ruins of a village razed by Humans or an ocean filled with neon fish that, somehow, hovered above the planet's surface.
Naturally, so much of the story's success comes from its beautifully crafted and well-voiced characters. I fell head-over-heels for the noble Strohl and couldn't help but smile as Hulkenberg, an often stoic and put-together knight, slurped down whatever local delicacy she could find at each city we visited as her friends looked on in horror. Heismay was a particularly impactful character, offering a tragic backstory and plenty of Uncle Iroh-style moments. In fact, there wasn't one of the game's six joining party members I didn't adore. And despite loathing the man, the game's major antagonist, Louis, is a mesmerizing villain, oozing with charisma, tact, and good looks. It's no wonder he is so beloved, feared, and such a powerful, suffocating force throughout the world. I also enjoyed how many of the major characters play somewhat unassuming roles at first, making themselves known to you briefly only to come back and play a much more important role down the road, adding a sense of life and progression to the game.
Atlus also made the decision to give Metaphor's protagonist a voice, something new for a studio that tends to favor the strong and silent type. The delivery of some of his lines adds so much personality and humor to the game that would otherwise be lost, elevating the entire experience and making me care substantially more about what would become of him on his journey to take the throne and save his best friend. In fact, the only complaint I can level in the character department is I wish there were more voice acting, as some social links--to my dismay--aren't fully voiced; it's a shame when both the characters and actors are so charming.
Still, their stories are brilliant vessels to deliver the game's major themes. While not particularly novel--fantasy and sci-fi have often acted as ways to discuss social issues somewhat removed from the context of our world--Metaphor: ReFantazio impressed me by placing emphasis on long-term collective action and compassion while also admitting that we will probably never know how to "get things right." It handles its topics and politics with maturity and precision, respecting the player's intelligence and avoiding falling into one of two dreaded camps: "everyone is right/respectable and the world is completely grey," and "there is a clear right and wrong and you are the savior who dictates what is what." It also doesn't shirk away from allowing real-world context to seep into the game, creating a sort of metanarrative that pops up in surprising ways, yet doesn't overstay its welcome or cheapen the experience.
These ideas are elevated through the side stories, often told through social links, which serve as more intimate explorations of grief, prejudice, vengeance, and forgiveness. In many of these narratives, we watch as a character tries to navigate living in a world that wronged them. How do you not give into fear or hatred? How do you go on living when your reason to is taken from you? How do you make the world a better place when a part of you wants nothing more than to burn it all down? Atlus has never been one to shy away from dark topics, yet somehow Metaphor: ReFantazio dives into more heart-wrenching territory than ever before while also retaining this well-suited sense of whimsical idealism throughout all of it.
This juxtaposition is perfectly reflected in the game's art and music, which pairs angelic choirs atop delicate orchestral pieces before transitioning into booming tracks that feature frantic chanting. There is something about the game's sound that, while still feeling ethereal and adventurous, conveys this feeling of religious fervor and fanaticism--a recurring theme throughout the story. It's dynamic and beautiful, while also being peculiar and suffocating.
Metaphor's art quickly separates itself from many Atlus titles by abandoning the studio's tendency to use a single color to convey the game's theme--an interesting choice considering the intense focus on the struggle between anxiety and hope, idealism and fanaticism. Rather than settle on a single color, Metaphor uses raspberry pink, teal, aquamarine, a saturated leafy green, and deep cornflower blue throughout its menus, with splatter effects, fades, and distortions adding a sense of anxiety and violence to colors that otherwise don't feel aggressive. And yet it works. Instead of one color being associated with the game itself, colors become motifs for certain characters, factions, and locations, creating a sense of variety and travel that the Persona series--which roots itself primarily in one location--doesn't quite get the chance to convey. Though I was originally worried that all these effects and the game's liberal use of texture--most noticeably, a sort of misty film grain can be seen in many scenes--could be distracting, I was a big fan of it in execution. All this texture, floating particles, and grain made the air feel thick--abundant in tension and magic.
It's also worth stating that Metaphor might be Atlus' most successful attempt at making its fully animated cutscenes blend into in-game cutscenes. Sure, there is a noticeable difference between the anime-inspired clips and what Metaphor's gameplay looks like, but by utilizing interesting camera angles and focusing on color harmony, the best of both worlds are brought front and center.
Metaphor's strategic use of these contrasting elements and themes keeps every moment interesting while its fantastic story steadily propels things forward. In fact, Metaphor might be the former-Persona team's most well-paced game to date. Though it uses several of the same systems as the Persona series (most notably its calendar, social links, and social stats systems), it all feels more intentional; your skill-building activities, social links, and various side quests carry more weight and are more grand in scale, eliminating that feeling that you are engaging with filler to pass time or are simply going through the motions to level up a particular skill. Additionally, every mission's end date felt like just the right amount of time to do everything, if you used your time wisely; I was neither pressed for time nor trying to find dull ways to kill it.
I am not by nature someone who longs to complete every side quest and bounty in a game, and never once have I aimed to fuse every persona in any of the Persona entries I've played. And yet, I was more than happy to do everything Metaphor offered, whether it be slaying monsters, embarking on a quest to retrieve a magical toothbrush, dungeon-crawling, or meticulously building out a character's Archetype tree. It helps that everything feels streamlined yet fully realized. Dungeons are interesting and intentionally laid out, with small puzzles making them more memorable than those found in the Persona series. There are fewer social links and, to my initial dismay, none of them truly offer romance. Ultimately, however, I grew to love this decision, as it results in the relationships feeling even stronger and less like a reward for saying the right things, further encouraging you to build them up and reap both the wisdom and benefits that come with their camaraderie.
Many of these benefits make themselves apparent in the Archetype system, which, contrary to initial concerns, feels nothing like Atlus' Persona system. Archetypes function more like jobs, permitting every character to grow proficient in any number of the game's 30 or so classes. Social links are closely tied to this system, as it is your companions who ultimately unlock new Archetypes and grant you the ability to select spells and abilities from one class to add to another. You can then build up your classes using magla, or MAG--a currency earned in various ways throughout the game, such as combat or socialization--to purchase new classes or already learned skills to give to another Archetype. It was so satisfying to have an extraordinary evasive Ninja who also could also hurl out black magic, or a tanky Knight with the ability to heal my entire team. I was also blown away by how brilliant this system is within the context of the game, drawing attention to how, at its core, Metaphor is a fairy tale that relies on these literary roles and established tropes to convey meaning. Leave it to Atlus to do a remarkable job at incorporating literature and Jungian psychology in subtle yet powerful ways.
The game's combat might be the best version of turn-based battles Atlus has ever created, offering flexibility while also asking for greater strategy than before. Combat uses turn counters, which hover like stars on the screen's top left corner. Critical hits and taking advantage of an enemy's weak point only use half a star, allowing you to hit an enemy up to eight times before it can turn its sights on you if you play your cards right. This comes in clutch, as clearing an encounter before an enemy can land a blow grants a substantial Unscathed Battle bonus. If you're like me and become obsessed with ensuring you come out untouched, you can quickly restart the battle with the touch of a button, allowing you to try out different strategies and experiment until you find an enemy's weakness.
Each party member can also pair up with another to unleash powerful Synergy abilities, which change not based on who you have in your party but what classes everyone is using--and being able to swap party members out for only half a turn counter means you can play around with these combinations in battle. These abilities generally use up two to three turn counters, but if you use them to hit a weakness, you have a way to deal massive damage while still keeping your turns. Enemies also operate using turn counters, but through experimentation you can find ways to use this to your advantage. It was incredibly satisfying watching the tough-as-nails Hulkenberg taunt an enemy and then take advantage of her massive chance to repel an attack to make an enemy lose all its turns.
I've always been a fan and defender of turn-based combat, even as it's slowly phased out in favor of action-driven combat. But even I can admit there are some faults with it, and grinding out enemies can be a real annoyance when you have to wait to both enter and exit a battle and feel forced to waste MP taking down smaller enemies when you know you have a boss lurking around the corner. Metaphor finds a remedy to all of these grievances in allowing you to also hack at enemies while roaming around a dungeon. Once you reach a set level, select enemies will possess a blue aura, which means you can take them down without ever entering battle and still attain experience, MAG, and gold from the encounter. Sneaking up on an elite monster--or dishing out enough swings to take them down before they land a hit on you--results in you starting each battle with major advantages. This makes a big difference, as some of the game's battles are absolutely grueling. Fortunately, you can adjust the game's difficulty at any time which I, admittedly, had to do to clear a few optional endgame bosses with absolutely devastating gimmicks and attacks.
Somehow, Metaphor: ReFantazio is even greater than the sum of its parts, yet each piece of the game is masterfully crafted. I found the whole experience transcendent and was impressed by how it felt both novel yet familiar--elevated and modern, yet so reminiscent to the fantasy RPGs I sunk countless hours into on my little grey PlayStation. But most importantly, it made me remember that we are lost without hope. It sounds silly and cliche, I know--sometimes it can be. It also certainly doesn't put out the fires set all over the world. But it reminded me that giving into despair and fear serves no one, myself included. It reminded me that fantasy and fiction have power--words and stories have power. They can inspire and comfort, and these things that are vital to preserving. And it reminded me that the proof of good in the world can be us, and that's a good start.
FC IQ is the driving force behind most of EA FC 25's forward momentum. The previous tactics system has been discarded and replaced by a malleable set of new Player Roles that dictate how your team functions with much more variety than before. As a result, the team-wide aspects of any given tactic have been streamlined, simply letting you set the depth of your defensive line and pick a build-up style based on short passing, countering, or a balanced mix of the two. Once you've picked a strategy and a formation you're happy with, you can begin applying specific roles to each player to really define its identity, balancing the risk and reward of certain roles and their impact on the team.
Every position has several Player Roles that govern a player's movement and positioning when they don't have the ball, both when your team has possession and when it doesn't. A central midfielder, for instance, fits into one of five roles, ranging from a playmaker to a half winger. The latter is new and sees your center mid drift out wide--similar to how Kevin De Bruyne often plays for Manchester City--letting you create overloads on one side of the pitch or whip balls into the box with a more proficient crosser than either your winger or fullback. This introduces more ways for you to create chances and gives you something else to think about when devising a tactic, making the whole process much more engaging.
Most roles also have a Focus that alters how a player behaves within the confines of their role. You can set a half winger to play a more balanced game, alternating equally between attacking and defending, or give them the freedom to be more forward-thinking, abandoning their defensive responsibilities in favor of pushing the attack.
To fill this vacated space in the middle of the park, you might deploy one of your fullbacks with the new falseback role, which sees them drift centrally as an extra midfielder when you're in possession. Not every fullback can perform such a specialized role adequately, however. In fact, no player is suited to every role, even if it's in their preferred position, so Role Familiarity guides you in how best to set up your team. Someone like Vinícius Júnior can play as a winger without compromising his abilities, but switching to a role he's accomplished on world-class at, such as an inside forward, will make him display more tactical and positional intelligence, resulting in better-timed runs and faster transitions from defense to attack.
This makes building a team in Career mode or Ultimate Team much more compelling than before. Do you construct a tactic and find players to fit it? Or do you ensure that each player is playing in their preferred role, regardless of what this does to the shape of your team? These are important considerations to make, adding another wrinkle to team-building that goes beyond numbered attributes like pace and shooting ability.
The formation you settle on--whether it's 3-5-2, 4-3-3, or something else in between--determines the shape of your team when defending. The Player Roles within this formation might maintain the same shape once you transition to attack or morph into something entirely new. Fortunately, there's a handy toggle that shows you how your players will position themselves both on and off the ball, and in practice, this makes for a lot more variance in the teams you'll come up against. You could face two teams with the exact same formation, but depending on how they've tailored each individual Player Role, you'll often notice a tangible difference in their approach.
Adding more variety to how players move and occupy certain positions is fantastic, but doubly so when there isn't a discernible difference in how EA FC 25 actually feels to play compared to last year's game. Sure, the general pace of play is slower--as is often the case at the start of each yearly cycle--and the plethora of new animations, particularly when shooting, make for some satisfying moments and goals. Yet it doesn't do enough to distinguish itself as a positive step forward. There's still a good game of football here, but any improvements are merely incremental, and it still comes saddled with the same long-standing issues. Tackling and player switching are both unreliable, goalkeepers are maddeningly inconsistent--pulling off wonder saves only to concede shots hit directly at them--and it's still more effective to spam skill moves than break down defenses with intricate passing. It's a shame that these problems still exist.
To make matters worse, the input delay currently affecting online matches results in a frustrating and sluggish experience when playing against others. Curiously, it's not an issue in the new Rush mode, but trying to play Rivals matches in Ultimate Team is a slog. Even the game's menus are afflicted by a similar issue, feeling like it's constantly chugging behind your button inputs. This makes menu-heavy modes like Career and Ultimate Team aggravating to navigate. I fell foul of a number of crashes on PS5, too, most frequently when accessing the store to open new packs and at the end of games.
Fortunately, much like FC IQ, Rush is an excellent new addition to the series, replacing Volta with quick five-a-side matches (one AI goalkeeper and four outfield players) that promise frantic action and bundles of goals. These five-minute contests are played on a smaller pitch and are governed by a unique ruleset. Kick-offs, for instance, are similar to those in Rocket League, with both teams lining up in their own half before the ball is dropped into the center circle, resulting in a mad dash to the middle as both teams try to attain possession first. Meanwhile, offsides only trigger when in the final third, and red cards have been replaced by a blue variant that condemns the offending player to the sin bin for a whole minute. It's chaotic fun and feels distinct enough from regular matches to provide a gratifying change of pace.
Rush is available in Kick Off, Career, Ultimate Team, and Clubs, so there are a few different ways to play. In Career mode, it's used for youth tournaments, allowing you to play as your best wunderkinds and develop their attributes before they're ready to step up to the first team. In Ultimate Team, you can hop into drop-in matches with three random players or play with friends, picking one player from your club to control. Sometimes, there are restrictions on the pool of players you can choose from, and you're also incentivized to select players from specific leagues and nations to earn bonus points that go towards XP for the season pass. Drop-in matches are a bit of a crapshoot when it comes to finding good teammates. Some people will refuse to defend or pass, while others have seemingly no idea how the offside rule works. It's easy to disrupt a game when there are only four players on each team, so it's definitely preferable to play with friends if you can.
Aside from the inclusion of youth tournaments, Career mode has also been given attention in a few other areas. You're now afforded more flexibility in how you customize the experience, from setting the leniency of your board's expectations to speeding up or slowing down the development rate of your players. If you choose the simulation gameplay type, you must also contend with inclement weather. A windy afternoon will affect the ball's trajectory, while a rainy downpour adds more zip to ground passes and causes players to occasionally slip. It's disappointing that these effects aren't a factor in online matches, but it makes sense in the name of balance.
The long-overdue inclusion of several major women's leagues is another welcome addition to Career mode. You can even start a Player Career as one of the game's Icons, though it's odd that you're limited to a meager four options considering how many reside in Ultimate Team. Regardless, who doesn't want to start a Career with Thierry Henry starting up top for Stevenage? These may only be minor improvements, but they're improvements nonetheless.
As for Ultimate Team, EA's cash cow has seen very few changes, but the ones that have been introduced aren't exactly positive. The rewards for racking up wins in Rivals have been downgraded despite the fact you now need to win 15 matches in a week rather than the previous seven. It's a significant time commitment when you also factor in the other objectives you might potentially want to complete across Rush, Squad Battles, and Friendlies. On top of this, qualifying for Champions--where the greatest rewards are located--is now reserved for the best players. In the past, you only needed to win four games out of 10 to qualify. Now, you must win three out of five matches to earn your spot in the finals, a decision that feels like it was fueled by the mode's pay-to-win microtransactions. Those who spend the most money are more likely to gain access to the best rewards.
There's a lot to like about EA FC 25, from the overhauled tactics to the chaotic addition of Rush and a few welcome improvements to Career mode. It's not a resounding victory, however. The on-field action has stagnated, maintaining its quality but also plenty of its flaws, while changes to Ultimate Team feel antagonistic in their design. In the near future, issues like input lag and its propensity to crash will hopefully be fixed, but the same is unlikely to be true for its long-standing problems. At the end of the day--to borrow common football player lingo--there's fun to be had with EA FC 25, especially if you enjoyed last year's game, but rather than taking a significant leap forward, it's content to settle for midtable form.
You could argue the current media landscape's obsession with crossovers, mash-ups, and hearty stews of intellectual property began with Funko Pop, collectible vinyl figures that have been popular for many years now and are made to resemble just about anything from pop culture--from rockstars and Star Trek villains, to cereal mascots and retired athletes. Before Fortnite became something like a Funko Pop game in its own way, Funko Pop figures were decorating mall stores and collectors' shelves with fan favorites and deep cuts. In retrospect, it's surprising we didn't get a Funko Pop console and PC game until now, though given the state of Funko Fusion, we would have been better off continuing to wait.
Presented in an over-the-(tiny)-shoulder third-person view akin to Lego Star Wars' latest effort, Funko Fusion similarly has you running around colorful worlds inspired by movies and TV shows you may already enjoy. Whereas the Lego games tend to pull from the tip-top of the popularity stack and adapt things like Marvel and Lord of the Rings, Funko Fusion takes on a fascinatingly strange assortment of series.
The biggest of them, Jurassic World, fits well in that aforementioned top tier. Beyond that, however, you'll find hub worlds, levels, and characters inspired by unexpected and smaller properties, with the full list of main attractions including Scott Pilgrim, Hot Fuzz, The Thing, Masters of the Universe, The Umbrella Academy, and Battlestar Galactica (the 1978 version). This list reads like the involved IP were all chosen randomly, but in actuality, it's because they share a common distributor: Universal Studios.
Each world unfolds much like a Lego game. You'll drop into a 3D level full of objects to smash and bad guys to pummel or shoot at, solving puzzles to advance between the regular attacks from villains. The music and scenery change for each property in fun ways--an early Scott Pilgrim level uses the movie's soundtrack, for example, which I haven't heard since it debuted years ago but immediately recognized as being from the Michael Cera-led adaptation. This was an even more exciting feature when I got to The Thing levels, where the silly vinyl statues were made just a bit creepier thanks to the film's unnerving music amplifying the foreboding nature of the surrounding snowy hellscape. Of course, using the music from each property is to be expected, but while it wasn't surprising, it was immersive anyway.
Despite wearing its Lego inspiration on its sleeve, Funko Fusion is not really for kids. That's apparent in a few ways--like The Thing being involved at all, or how Scott Pilgrim's band, Sex Bob-Omb, is prominently featured in the run of levels set in the Edgar Wright movie's universe. But it's more obviously not for younger players in ways that ultimately make it worse, even for its intended audience. Unlike the Lego series, which followed a formula honed over dozens of games across nearly 20 years, Funko Fusion fails to stick to its internal logic when it comes to level and puzzle design, and quickly becomes frustrating and confusing as a result.
The Lego games were famous for their light puzzle elements, which the team at TT Games call "nuzzles," short for "not puzzles." Designed to make players stumble only briefly while skillfully pointing them to the solution with on-screen hints like rattling bricks or sparkling terminals, there is an art to how a Lego game level unfolds. An adult-oriented game that adapted the Lego games' take on puzzles and just made them tougher could have worked, but that's not what Funko Fusion is, in large part because its levels rarely make visual sense. When I played a portion of Funko Fusion earlier this year, I figured my confusion around some of the game's puzzle mechanics was due to having missed a tutorial section that would be in the full game and explain away issues I had. As it turns out, no such tutorial exists, which commonly left me confused about how to proceed. Funko Fusion's level design doesn't provide enough direction to maintain an enjoyable sense of progress.
This issue is exacerbated by the way Funko Fusion fails to telegraph which parts of its levels are meant for now and which aspects are meant to be revisited on replays after more items or characters have been unlocked. An early level in my playthrough featured yellow arrows painted in front of a locked door. I'd never seen them before, and to that point in my playthrough, I hadn't noticed anything that was gated off to me. I learned only much later, while playing The Umbrella Academy levels, that a particular character in that world can phase through the wall if they stand on those arrows and perform a dash.
In the moment, I fidgeted with the environment for a few frustrating minutes, trying to determine what I was meant to do, when really the answer was simply "come back later." The game doesn't tell you this in any way--not via a tutorial and not with easily understood in-level hints. You're left to guess and troubleshoot, which sometimes led me to give up on puzzles I later realized actually were doable, but the inconsistent visual language of the game had me dizzy and questioning my efforts throughout many of its 30+ levels.
Funko Fusion doesn't benefit from years of first-hand practice like TT Games' series does, but it seems to clearly look to the Lego games closely, so it's a bit baffling that the level and puzzle design ignore some of the vital qualities that make those games so enjoyable. It captures the broad strokes of a Lego game but misses many of the nuanced strengths of that series. It may benefit from being distinct from its contemporaries and not being as formulaic as the Lego series became over 20 years, but Funko Fusion swaps out a recognizable and beloved formula for irritating chaos driven by poor in-game signposting.
Other puzzles are similarly frustrating, though sometimes for different reasons. A recurring type is a locked chest full of loot, such as limited-use superweapons and health kits, that can only be opened if you pull on four levers before a timer expires. You can do this in a few ways, such as running the optimal route to get them all in time, or using a faster character or drinking a speed-boosting soda you may have found. But some examples of this puzzle seemingly can't be done if you have neither the consumable nor an appropriate character. Still, because earlier puzzles of the same nature could be handled with a bit of extra ingenuity, I wasted time trying to see what I was missing, rather than quickly determining I just wasn't equipped with the right tools yet. The game routinely introduces a concept, then changes it without telling you, making puzzles more like a lockbox without a key than a Rubik's Cube.
That problem cascades even further due to shoddy, often frustrating combat. Shooting doesn't feel accurate, and strangely cranking up the aim assist to try to solve that problem seemingly didn't change anything, or if it did, it was too subtle for me to notice. Melee is reliable enough--just get in close and mash the punch button--but I experienced a range of complications with this. Enemies sometimes corner-trapped me, and infinitely-spawning enemies would undermine puzzles by getting in my way and reducing the timing windows of some solutions. There were some mini-boss encounters that, like the puzzles, have to be figured out with in-the-moment trial-and-error, rather than the levels leading up to them acting as a tutorial to prep me or expressive visual language guiding me toward the solution during the fight.
There's one recurring mini-boss type who sponges a ton of damage before finally being made to dizzily walk toward a circle on the ground, but what to do after that was lost on me for a while. Eventually, I realized that if I looked high above them, I could send a chandelier crashing down by shooting it. This put them in a similarly groggy state, but one that demanded a different tactic, as it left them open to melee attacks. While the initial realization introduced a bit of interesting consideration to the fight, finding the solution to the problem at hand simply made another problem by making the fight too easy as the mini-boss then just stood there unmoving as I wailed on them with a barrage of hits. The process felt so overlong it became comical.
Regardless of the IP you're exploring, the world bosses themselves follow a familiar format of hitting the glowing spots while dodging minions across multiple phases. These sections are at least consistent and better at explaining what you should do, but that's a rare bright spot, and not too vibrant anyway.
So many of the game's issues could be made less severe or even disappear if Funko Fusion's co-op functionality was in place, but the game was curiously launched without any of that available. Instead, four-player online co-op will come to different worlds, in a piecemeal rollout, over the months ahead, starting with Jurassic World in October. The publisher told critics this is because it wanted to prioritize the studio's work-life balance and give developers a well-earned rest. That sounds great to me, except it seems to overlook the idea that the game could've just been delayed entirely.
Instead, rolling it out in this state amplifies several of the game's worst aspects; Without allies to aid you, the enemies regularly interrupt puzzle solutions, timed puzzles with unforgiving timers become harder or impossible, and even the game's vague puzzles in quiet spaces can take longer without a group brainstorming element that should've been there from the start.
That isn't to say the game is all bad. One of the cooler parts about it are its secret levels and characters, which go well beyond the six major hub worlds to include shorter stints in additional settings like Child's Play, Jaws, Five Nights at Freddy's, and more. In general, Funko Fusion leans into horror properties in a way that feels unnecessary but also pleasantly surprising. We're unlikely to ever see a second game based on Jordan Peele's Nope, making the novelty of it being found here so notable, even as secret levels aren't immune to the game's structural issues either.
One thing the game does borrow from the Lego series in a skilled way is how the toys' unique opportunities for humor can be used to reinterpret classic scenes or lean into the nature of the figures themselves. Standout examples include a moment in the first Jurassic World level when a character's big head gets stuck in a doorway as she tries to escape roaming dinosaurs, or how you can cartoonishly pop the heads off of enemies if you hit them just right. Each world does well to capture its source material even as things are redressed in smooth vinyl textures. In the case of the He-Man levels, the entire world benefits from a stylish cel-shaded look, too, which isn't exactly how that show looked, but it does make it stick out as a cartoon in a sea of live-action properties.
It's also worth mentioning a patch released during my early days with the game that soothed some of the game's more painful aspects, like making it easier to unlock additional worlds. Funko Fusion lets you pick any world to start, but it doesn't tell you that some are better to start with than others as they reduce how much backtracking you'll need to perform. You have to learn this the hard way, like I did when I started with Scott Pilgrim and later learned the studio recommends it as the last world to play.
Now, the game's use of Crowns, discovered in levels and additionally earned for completing them, can more easily unlock worlds and characters, which gets right to the heart of the game's appeal: running around as various pop culture heroes and villains in worlds either familiar or not their own. More patches are needed though, not just to fix the aforementioned confusion around moving through levels, but even to polish the game, like fixing some audio problems that currently manifest as loud screeches instead of, for example, car-engine noises.
With more attention to balancing and better, earlier explanations of how its puzzles, boss encounters, and items behave, I could see Funko Fusion eventually being the enjoyable, adult-oriented Lego alternative it wants to be. It needs some important fixes, but they don't seem like unattainable goals in this era of living games that are constantly evolving. The eventual widespread co-op functionality should hopefully make the game better all on its own, and if more helpful visual language and tooltips arrive soon, too, the game could be redeemed. Until then, however, this is one Funko product not worth displaying on your shelf.
PC version update (September 25, 2024): Just shy of its two-year anniversary, Sony Santa Monica's God of War Ragnarok has arrived on PC, with porting duties shared with Jetpack Interactive. As is now typical with Sony's various PC endeavors, this port comes with the expected enhancements for the platform: ultrawide support, a variety of upscaling options, and improved frame rates, all of which should soften the blow of the extended waiting period. As you might expect, these features make it easy to customize your experience to match your current PC configuration, but God of War Ragnarok isn't flawless as many of Sony's previous PC ports have been.
The improved performance offered by powerful PC configurations is immediately noticeable during the opening moments of Ragnarok. The fluidity afforded by the higher frame rates made it impossible to return to even the PS5 version, with performance sustained above 80 frames per second on my RTX 3080Ti and AMD Ryzen 5 5600X at 1440p and set to the game's highest Ultra preset (the equivalent to PS5's Quality mode). Utilizing DLSS, I was able to boost this well above 100fps with indiscernible impact on the image; AMD's FSR 3.1 and Intel XeSS are available too, as well as Sony Santa Monica's internal Temporal technique that was used on PS4 and PS5. Frame generation is also available for RTX 40-series GPUs via DLSS 3, while AMD cards (and older Nvidia ones) can make use of frame generation from FSR 3.1 (although results here aren't nearly as good as Nvidia's implementation).
Perhaps most surprisingly, God of War Ragnarok runs far better than you might expect on Valve's Steam Deck. Getting a locked 30fps was a breeze, utilizing the Quality present on FSR 3.1 and using mostly Medium settings (with only Shadows and Atmospherics knocked down to Low). This configuration is better than that of the base PS4, which Jetpack Interactive says aligns with the game's Low preset. Having it run that well on a portable platform wasn't something I expected going in, and I was surprised at how much I wanted to continue playing on the Steam Deck with its stunning OLED display bringing the Fimbulwinter tundra to life.
The effects of making changes to graphical settings can be seen on the paused game scene visible through the transparent menu, letting you see changes take place in real time, which is always appreciated. Oddities arise, however, when the game is in motion. I ran into numerous instances where the game's UI was incorrectly rendering, resolving in large, blocky and pixelated images for a range of icons from Kratos' currently equipped weapon to frequent controller input prompts. There were also two other instances where the game locked me into a slow moving walk with Kratos, preventing me from moving at a normal pace through the world and, more importantly, combat. A handful of crashes also peppered my experience, although the majority cleared up after the openings to both the main campaign and Valhalla epilogue.
These issues aren't deal-breakers by any stretch, and most were resolved with a reboot of the game and will likely be addressed by patches in the future. But it gives the port a less-than-stellar sheen that is at odds with the quality you might have come to expect from PC releases from Sony-owned Nixxes. That's especially true when God of War Ragnarok continues the trend of solid, but otherwise predictable PC enhancements that omit larger improvements such as ray tracing. If you've never experienced God of War Ragnarok, then there's a strong chance this port will satisfy you after the extended wait. It's just a pity it's not flawless as the extra time might have you expecting. -- Alessandro Barbosa
God of War Ragnarok is a lavish production with pristine visuals, jaw-dropping scale, crunchy combat that is as satisfying as it is brutal, and a world that begs to have its every corner and crevice explored. It's a spectacular blockbuster, but these are the least of its achievements.
In a game where a hulking god rips all manner of creatures limb from limb, the most shocking moments aren't bathed in blood, but carried by poignant words and heartfelt emotions. They are a former God of War--known for mercilessly killing his kin--finding the words to empathize with loss; a despondent child emploring a father to break a self-destructive cycle; a moment of tenderness in the life of a boy that has the weight of the world on his shoulders.
God of War Ragnarok's most impressive achievements are its exploration of loss and love; grief and growth; determinism and defiance. It's an astoundingly well-written game that deconstructs the mythology of Norse gods and rebuilds it as an odyssey about families. Its story isn't about the end of the world, but those that have a hand in it. They're revered as mythical gods but are characterized by deep flaws, twisted by skewed perspectives, and corrupted by questionable motivations in the same way the people they preside over are. And yet, some also have redemptive qualities. In that respect, Ragnarok's story is told from a grey area where nuances blur the line between heroes and villains; good and evil. By constantly challenging you to reconsider who they are and the factors that drive their actions, these characters remain compelling throughout.
There are moments when characters you're not supposed to be rooting for reveal the trials and tribulations that have shaped them, or the demons they battle. This alone is enough to humanize them, but Ragnarok also mirrors the struggles of the protagonists in the antagonists, forcing you to ask yourself, "If I'm willing to empathize with the good guys because of what they're going through, shouldn't I do the same for the bad guys?" The answer, it turns out, is very complicated, and that's what makes the story so captivating.
Although Kratos and Atreus are the stars of the show, almost every character is in the midst of their own complicated journey. For some, it's one that will lift them from a pit of despair or pull them from darkness and onto a brighter path. For others, it's one that fuels obsessions that could be the undoing of everything and everyone. This is best illustrated by Kratos and Atreus who, by killing Baldur at the end of the last game, act as the harbingers of the end times.
The consequences of this moment weigh differently on them, and what they feel is their responsibility because their actions pull them in different directions. Kratos, who has finally learned to guide his son through love instead of fear, focuses on steering him away from conflict and the affairs of the Aesir gods, but does so with the knowledge that his son is prophesized to play a part in Ragnarok and he is destined to die. Atreus, meanwhile, is compelled to prevent Ragnarok and find out who he is as Loki–the name he was given by the Giants–and sets off to find Tyr, the Norse God of War, to achieve his goals. This complicated dynamic serves as the conflict between them: a man that wants to avoid war at all costs, having learned the toll it extracts firsthand, versus a boy who believes war is the only way to unseat a power that has ruined the lives of so many.
Those who remember Atreus's power-tripping fledgling God phase from the last game will also remember how frustrating it was to go through that--there's nothing more annoying than an arrogant child. But Ragnarok treats the differences in perspective between father and son in a much different way. Kratos is now reckoning with letting his son forge his own path and learning that holding on too tight could push him away. Atreus has matured since we last saw him and is now more cognizant that his actions can and will have consequences. As a result, the dynamic has shifted to where Kratos is trying to learn about his son instead of defining him, while Atreus does his best to see things from his father's perspective. And in both cases, Mimir's counsel plays a major part in this. The fruits of the journey that both characters underwent in the previous game are carried forward into this sequel and, thanks to the superb writing and acting, the back-and-forths between them are genuinely interesting. There's a newfound sense of mutual respect in these conversations, which is uncharted territory for Kratos, and in turn feeds into the motif of growth that underpins God of War Ragnarok.
This is a game where you will see people change in meaningful ways. Without revealing details, new characters and those you became intimately familiar with in the previous game have experiences that profoundly impact them and the people around them. God of War Ragnarok is rich in themes to unpack, from the influence of families and generational trauma to how abuses of power and emotional manipulation can change people. God of War Ragnarok places the Norse pantheon under the harshest of lights to show how deeply flawed they are, and we're able to explore that thoroughly through our own experiences with them, as well as tales told by others that have their own. Mimir, the self-professed smartest man alive, returns to offer his insight on all things Norse history, as do the various writings scattered throughout the realms that recount complex histories, the tales of notable figures, or provide insight into the thoughts and feelings of various characters.
God of War Ragnarok is a long game, but at every step of the journey, the writing and characterization make it count. It justifies that runtime by cultivating an intimacy with the characters that is only possible by spending hours and hours with them, learning how they see the world, and what influences their thinking. And pretty much every character is fascinating, but especially the Aesir gods, who can be a cruel bunch at the best of times. With the looming threat of their demise, however, each of them begins to unravel in different ways. For some, their nature becomes concentrated further, which has unfortunate repercussions. Others, however, are forced to rethink what truly matters to them.
There have been a lot of takes on Norse mythology, but God of War Ragnarok's is easily one of the most memorable. It's elevated by the presence of Kratos, whose past life as a Greek God provides him with a unique perspective, but also because he's placed at the center of it. The legends that we're used to are molded around him and his son, and they adhere in a way that is truly impressive. When all is said and done, you can stand back and marvel at how neatly– and creatively–different strands of narratives and characterization from older God of War titles, the previous entry in this rebooted series, and Norse mythology as a whole have been weaved together.
When it comes to confronting Kratos and Atreus's enemies on the battlefield, God of War Ragnarok doesn't make any drastic departures from the previous game, though there are some new additions and expansions made to key mechanics. Fundamentally, however, the core gameplay remains the same, and this is in its favor. My familiarity with the previous game meant it was very easy to begin tearing my way through the battlefield and the close camera angle offers a dramatic front-row seat to the brutality Kratos's legendary reputation is built upon.
There's a maniacal kind of glee that comes from stomping around arenas swinging the trusty Leviathan axe to cleave Draugrs, Elves, dragons, demons, and all manner of other fantastic creatures. Even all these hours later, the thrill of hurling the axe into the distance and then recalling it back to your side hasn't diminished one bit, and with new skill trees to work through, this ability continues to provide ample opportunities to create flashy combos that hit hard.
This time around, Kratos also has access to the Blades of Chaos from the outset, and Sony Santa Monica has put them to great use. As well as serving as excellent crowd-control tools and dishing out extra damage to ice-aligned creatures, the fiery blades are also used to emphasize mobility and verticality. Kratos can latch onto enemies and close the distance with them, which means they're very handy for target prioritization and even escape tactics. But they're also essential for quickly ascending to elevated platforms, where enemies often position themselves to take potshots. This means you'll need to have a much keener awareness of your surroundings and ensure these threats are addressed quickly. A small but very welcome new addition is the ability to launch off elevated areas and execute plunging attacks on those below, which ensures that the sense of momentum that is built in skirmishes isn't lost when moving around the battlefield.
My favorite weapon remains Kratos's trusty fists, which hit like boulders and generate a significant amount of stun. Like the previous game, enemies have a stun meter which, when filled, opens them up to devastating cinematic finishers that are weapon-specific and usually involve rending something in two, crushing bones, or eviscerating the enemy entirely. It's a wince-inducing kind of viciousness that really drives home the power fantasy of being a god, which is ironic considering that Kratos in God of War Ragnarok is a much more balanced and, I daresay, emotionally stable person. The contrast actually ends up working for the game, as it becomes a stark reminder of how far Kratos has come to be able to cage that kind of beast within him.
Another area that has been expanded is shields. You were previously limited to just one, but in Ragnarok, Kratos has access to a wider range of shields. Each one usually has a playstyle it caters to, so for those who want to focus on parrying attacks to create openings, there are a selection that will enable that. But if you're the kind of person that likes to tank damage, bigger and sturdier options are available. Shields also usually have a secondary function that is executed by tapping L1 twice to check an enemy and create space, slam the shield into the ground to break guard, retaliate with a punch that knocks them back, or even rush forward. This new wrinkle further enhances the offensive feel of combat by letting you go from the back foot to the front in an instant. It's a smart little addition that means you can switch up your playstyle, should you want to.
Further enhancing what Kratos is capable of are the various role-playing systems that are tied to equipment. Naturally, equipment can be upgraded to improve their strength, the effectiveness of the element they are imbued with, or the power of the unique Runic attack, among other things. But the most tangible additions are often in the attachments, some of which will further enhance attributes while others go so far as to introduce new functionality--like sending consecutive waves of frost with every swing of the axe. Armor is treated similarly, bestowing pluses and minuses to attributes or having a unique effect that is activated by certain conditions. None of this is particularly game-changing or innovative, but it does offer the freedom to create a build for Kratos that caters to your style of play. In my case, for example, I like to play extremely aggressively and adopt high-risk strategies where parrying comes before blocking and dodging. Because of this, I focused on acquiring and upgrading equipment that rewarded me for this aggression. My entire strategy was built around rushing in and punching enemies into submission until they became vulnerable to cinematic executions, which would in turn grant me a burst of health recovery. I combined this with a relic that creates a Realm Shift, effectively slowing down time and giving me another opening to unleash a flurry of strikes or the space to hunt down life-restoring gems that might be on the battlefield.
Kratos's aggression is reflected in the enemies, which hit much harder than before and aim to overwhelm. In the early hours, this is fine, but as the game ramps up and trickier enemies appear, the mechanics can struggle under the pressure of the increased speed and aggression. These enemies often absorb much more damage, have multiple phases, or move around and attack from a distance, and in many cases, there can be multiple of them. Because of this, it can often feel like you're being pulled in multiple directions and cracks in the defensive options form. I often found myself in the middle of a series of attacks and then suddenly an enemy would appear from behind, forcing me to disengage either by turning around or rolling out of the way. The quick turn input is now L1 and down on the directional pad, and even as I approached the end of the game, it felt awkward and unreliable to execute, especially in the heat of battle. You can remap this, but I never found a place where I was completely comfortable with it.
This also felt like it was breaking the flow of combat, especially since the intensity made it easy to lose track of the on-screen arrow that indicates an attack from behind is coming. The indicator switches from yellow to red to provide some idea of timing, but I still found myself getting clipped a lot. Although this isn't a big deal for much of the game, in the latter half, enemies can stunlock you, so there were numerous occasions where a single enemy would open me up to being pummeled by multiple and I'd die in an instant. These moments arose in a way where I felt ill-equipped and incapable of making Kratos react in a way that could deal with what was being thrown at me, as opposed to not being able to execute because of my own skill. Since there are high-level challenges equivalent to Valkyries from the previous game–and more than a few that are even trickier–this is the kind of thing that can be the difference between life and death. Thankfully, for boss fights at least, God of War Ragnarok is much better about checkpointing as you move through phases. And when you're getting stuck into the combat, Atreus is much more capable this time around. Along with Mimir, he will either do callouts to keep you informed, or fire off some arrows at your command or of his own volition to get threats off you–he's a good lad.
Ultimately, although these issues can be irksome, they are small and in the grand scheme of things don't drastically impact how the mechanics coalesce. Combat is much pacier and more dynamic than before, and it is thrilling regardless of whether you're fighting a smattering of Draugers or trading blows with gods. It's thoughtfully designed and thoroughly satisfying from the first swing of the axe to the very last.
Kratos and Atreus's battles takes them across all nine realms, which is a change from the previous game where two of the realms were locked away. One of the most interesting parts of God of War Ragnarok is how it reimagines areas that were in the original game. Fimbulwinter is used as a narrative conceit to give these familiar locales new life. In Norse mythology, Fimbulwinter, which translates to "the long winter," serves as the prelude to Ragnarok. In-game, it affects the nine realms in different ways. Midgard for example is besieged by a bitter cold, so when you return to the Lake of The Nine once again, it has completely frozen over. Key areas of the lake that you may have become intimately familiar with in the last game may now be inaccessible as new parts of it open up. A cold wind sweeps across the icy surface of the lake and at the center of it all, Tyr’s temple is now barely recognizable under the buildup of snow. In the distance, icy mountain peaks serve as a backdrop to a single lighting strike, frozen in place as the mark of an intense battle. Naturally, navigation is completely changed since you can no longer sail the waters. Instead, Kratos and Atreus get around on a sled that is pulled by their trusty pet wolves, which is a nice way to mix up the way you get around. At certain points, you can even use their keen sense of awareness to sniff out objectives, which is a nice touch.
Svartalfheim, by comparison, looks picturesque from the outskirts, with its bright blue skies. But as you venture deeper into its wetlands, it becomes more desert-like, with craggy rocks awkwardly jutting out and collapsed wooden mining equipment filling the spaces in between. There's an unpleasant, arid atmosphere to it, and yet at the same time, it's quite the visual spectacle to behold, rich in detail and intricate in its construction. Vanaheim, home of the Vanir, is a verdant forest that has reclaimed much of the landscape; trees gently sway in the wind; moss has settled atop the water, and vegetation snakes along stone floors and up onto manmade shrines. And if you take a moment to stop and look around, you'll find wildlife nestled amongst all the green. It's a place that is very alive, which makes it a nice contrast to the coldness of Midgard or the glistening majesty of Alfheim's architecture. There are other areas I won't spoil, some of which have a good amount to see and do, while others serve a specific function.
No one area in God of War Ragnarok comes across as big as the Lake of the Nine, but it seems like this is a symptom of how you're constantly moving around a variety of locations as opposed to repeatedly returning to one. Regardless, each realm has a grand sense of scale and, as you move between them, the scope of the world as a whole far eclipses what came before. While the main story campaign moves Kratos and Atreus through all nine realms, there are plenty of side quests to undertake in each of these locations. Yet another testament to the writing is that these quests are never a distraction and always present a good reward, whether that be an item or crafting materials, at the very least. However, most of the time they also deliver some piece of lore, further flesh out a side character, or give Kratos, Atreus, and Mimir something new to bond over.
Going anywhere with these characters is an exciting prospect, and I often found myself just wandering around to let conversations play out or hoping that new ones would start. In most cases, they did, and I was treated to valuable character growth. In Ragnarok, Kratos is now more inquisitive, Mimir is always ready and willing to offer his insight, and Atreus takes the opportunity to make jokes at both their expense. And that's something I definitely didn't expect. God of War Ragnarok is a funny game--there are more than a few laugh-out-loud moments that endeared me to this new family unit that developed over the last game and flourishes in its sequel.
And that's what distinguishes God of War Ragnarok from its predecessor, and most other action games. Despite being a story about warring gods and the end of the world, the soul of the game is something far more sentimental. You may have noticed that I've avoided mentioning the names of characters or describing plot beats, and that was intentional. To talk more about anything or anyone would be to rob you of some of the most unexpected things that God of War Ragnarok achieves with its narrative and the themes they explore. The last game's thoughtful approach to exploring fatherhood was unexpected, Ragnarok somehow manages to feel like an even more personal tale about the complicated nature of families and the people that make them up. For every moment of brutality, there is one of genuine and relatable emotion. How they land will vary from person to person, but there were multiple that left me with tears welling up. If nothing else, God of War Ragnarok further cements Sony Santa Monica's narrative team as one of the best in the business.
The Legend of Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom offers a link between the two worlds of Nintendo's iconic action-adventure franchise. It has the playfulness and freeform puzzles of Tears of the Kingdom and the traditional dungeon design the franchise was known for prior to Breath of the Wild's seismic shake-up. Echoes of Wisdom deftly bounces from past to present and establishes its own identity, turning the page to start a new legend for Princess Zelda.
By now, you're probably well-aware that the major change here is that the franchise namesake is finally the playable character. Technically, the Philips CD-i games The Wand of Gamelon and Zelda's Adventure were the first to do this, but those abysmal games were nothing like Nintendo's Zelda games--they weren't even published by Nintendo. Echoes of Wisdom is the first proper game starring Zelda, which sounds rather ridiculous when you consider the fact that Tingle has starred in three games and a multi-function DSiWare app where you can have your fortune read by the creepiest dude from Hyrule.
From a narrative perspective, the role reversal makes little impact, largely because Echoes of Wisdom is light on story. A malevolent force is creating rifts across Hyrule that turn residents of Hyrule, including Link and Zelda's father, into statues inside the dark and dreary dimension known as the Still World. Much like how Link was accused of wrongdoing in A Link to the Past, Zelda is accused of creating the rifts and is subsequently imprisoned; you'll even find Wanted posters around Hyrule, this time showing Zelda's face instead of Link's. In her cell, she meets Tri, an ethereal being who accompanies Zelda on her quest and is essentially Zelda's version of Navi from Ocarina of Time. Though some express momentary shock that Zelda is the kingdom's only hope, she is mostly viewed as the one person capable of defeating the evil threatening to consume Hyrule.
While the rote plot is a hodgepodge of familiar stories, Echoes of Wisdom is more focused on shaking things up from a gameplay standpoint. The shift to playing as Zelda includes markedly different systems for combat, puzzle-solving, and platforming--yes, Echoes of Wisdom has plenty of platforming. Armed with a magical staff given to her by Tri, Zelda can spawn "echoes," copies of objects and enemies you encounter across Hyrule. Outside of bosses, every enemy can be conjured as an echo. Since Zelda is incapable of attacking directly, friendly echo monsters serve as the main form of offense. Each echo has a cost, and going beyond your current max deletes the oldest echoes you created. Because there isn't a cooldown period and you can manually wipe the slate clean at any time, this seemingly passive combat system is far more active and exciting than it initially seems. Once I started racking up echoes and was able to use more at once, I started to enjoy the organized chaos more than any pre-Breath of the Wild combat system.
Player choice is paramount to the combat system. Much like Tears of the Kingdom and Breath of the Wild, there's no "wrong" way to vanquish enemies. Do you want to create rocks and hurl them at your enemies repeatedly? You can do that. Command Zirros to spew bombs everywhere? Check. Create a deathring of Pathblades that slice those armored Moblins and Lizalflos while you take a nap on a bed and regenerate health? It's an effective strategy. Zelda does get to wield Link's traditional weapons in Swordfighter Form, though this is tied to an upgradeable energy gauge. When used in combination with echoes, Swordfighter Form is a powerful complementary mechanic that adds another layer to the organized chaos of Echoes of Wisdom's combat.
Monsters make up the majority of the 127 echoes, but an assortment of inanimate objects combined with Zelda's ability to jump serve as the connective tissue of this thoughtfully designed iteration of Hyrule. Without the Tri Rod, this version of Hyrule simply wouldn't work. Going all-in on one central mechanic really helps Echoes of Wisdom feel markedly different than any other Zelda game. The end result is a top-down Legend of Zelda game with more freedom than ever before.
Unlike Link in other top-down entries, Zelda doesn't need Roc's Feather/Cape to jump (she should teach him). With this unprecedented ability, you can hide inside of pots and hop around to avoid detection by castle guards in an early stealth sequence that nods back to Ocarina of Time. Much of Echoes of Wisdom's platforming involves building makeshift stairs and bridges. This central concept is taught effectively here with end tables, wooden crates, decorative trees, and the most absurd echo of all: beds. Twin-sized beds can be stacked to form bridges and towers. Seeing four beds stacked across small islands in Lake Hylia or above molten lava in the Fire Temple is a rather curious sight. Even funnier is spawning a bed in the middle of a boss fight to take a nap and gradually restore health.
Similar to Tears of the Kingdom's Ultrahand rune, Tri can latch onto and move echoes. It's a more rudimentary system, as you can't turn objects and you aren't required to make wonky contraptions with multiple moving pieces. Mostly, you're stacking objects to cross gaps or using echoes to solve puzzles. My favorite and most-used traversal echo was the water block found while helping the Zoras calm down a creature long-time Zelda fans will surely remember. Water blocks can be stacked vertically or horizontally to create towers and tunnels to swim through. It's superb for platforming sequences and solving puzzles, but it's also a great example of the versatility of echoes. Since flying monsters can't live in water, you can create an above-ground pool and drag them in, which kills them instantly. Similarly, you can lure enemies into the flames of torches placed in the center of a room to deal with them. Finding these numerous ways to guide enemies to certain death with the help of echoes is one of the game's many joys.
The robust echoes system rewards experimentation and encourages exploration. You'll want to pay close attention to your surroundings for objects that sparkle, signifying they can be copied. Trampoline echoes can help you reach areas before upgrading the Tri Rod, and if you're adept at platforming, the disappearing cloud echoes can be used to cross large sections of the map without ever touching the ground. You can also hitch a ride by choosing to follow, rather than guide, monster echoes. For example, birds take you airborne and sharks pull you through strong underwater currents. Although these monsters are now friendly, when you choose to follow them, you are not in control of their movements. Not by default at least. If you poke around, talk to people, and complete side quests, you'll learn new tricks that can fundamentally alter the way you approach platforming sequences and puzzles.
Nintendo struck a great balance of old and new with Echoes of Wisdom's structure and overarching level design. The lead-up to dungeons takes cues from Tears of Kingdom with multi-part quests, including a trip to the Still World to find Tri's friends and clear the corrupted stretch of land. These scavenger-hunt sequences feel like smaller versions of Tears of the Kingdom's dungeons. Resembling a cross between the Sky Islands and the Depths, the Still World is a shadowy platforming playground with segmented islands and more aggressive monsters. Rifts do an excellent job teaching you the "rules" of the region as you approach the dungeon at the end of the darkness.
Tears of the Kingdom's temples were certainly closer to traditional dungeons than the Divine Beasts from Breath of the Wild, but they still strayed pretty far from the old formula. Echoes of Wisdom's seven dungeons bring back the classic template of multiple floors, automatically shutting doors with rooms full of monsters, small keys to find, and a big chest with the boss key. Besides Hyrule Castle, they retain elemental themes, such as Faron Temple (Forest), Lanyru Temple (Ice), and Jabul Ruins (Water).
One of the biggest strengths of these dungeons is how familiar puzzles with ground switches, torches, and other franchise staples feel radically fresh. Instead of finding a new piece of gear to solve puzzles, you utilize new objects and monsters. Even the side-scrolling sections, which were rather straightforward in Link's Awakening and the Oracle games, are clever riddles to solve. Puzzle complexity does a wonderful job of scaling with you. As you progress, the number of echoes you can create at once increases, and the cost of conjuring some of them drops. Despite having the cute toy-like visual style of Link's Awakening, puzzles can get pretty darn challenging. In fact, some of them stumped me for longer than any puzzle in Breath of the Wild or Tears of the Kingdom. Figuring out solutions provided the same satisfaction as solving a really clever logic puzzle. And like all good logic puzzles, you can approach each puzzle from different angles. When comparing strategies with another GameSpot staffer, it was fascinating to see how differently we arrived at solutions.
Combat isn't as challenging as the pair of open-world Zelda games, but it's possible to get wrecked pretty quickly if you don't spawn monsters that match up well with the enemy, especially in boss fights, which are lengthier and more challenging than dungeon bosses from other top-down Zelda games. Even early bosses, such as the flying mole-like creature wearing sunglasses in the Gerudo Ruins, can be tricky because of its fast underground movements and quicksand that makes some monsters incapable of putting up much of a fight. Though I never died while fighting a boss, I had to heal to stave off the Game Over screen on numerous occasions.
Classic-style dungeons are flanked by a plethora of side quests a la Breath of the Wild and Tears of the Kingdom. While some side quests can be as small as showing an echo to someone, there are numerous high-score-chasing minigames, combat challenges, and errands that require you to explore new areas and solve puzzles. Numerous useful echoes and items are earned through side quests. Borrowing horses from Hyrule Ranch and getting your own are tied to side quests, too. Yes, for the first time, a top-down Zelda game has horseback riding, and the steeds are extremely cute, albeit not super practical. Though probably the largest top-down Zelda game in terms of map size, Echoes of Wisdom has a generous fast-travel system, with multiple warp points in each zone. And since Hyrule is tailored around the echo system, I often found myself abandoning my horse to explore a point of interest inaccessible on horseback.
Finding hidden collectibles has always been a major component of Zelda games, and Echoes of Wisdom brings back the best collectible of all: Heart Pieces. The return of the signature collectible emphasizes how Echoes of Wisdom represents two eras of Zelda games. There are 40 Heart Pieces scattered throughout Hyrule, and a good chunk of them are obscured by some of the trickiest puzzles on hand. Defeating bosses rewards you with a Heart Container and an upgrade to the Tri Rod. Outside of Heart Pieces, you'll find Might Pieces which can be exchanged for upgrades to Zelda's Swordfighter Form. Some of these are unmissable, but a lot are tied to side quests and exploration, so there's ample incentive to seek these out. The third collectible introduces the weirdest character not named Tingle: Stamp Guy, an obsessive stamp collector, wants you to love stamps as much as he does. I searched for stamps largely to see what he would do after filling up each stamp card. His pure love and devotion needs to be witnessed.
Multiple other modern new-era series fixtures are adopted by Echoes of Wisdom. It borrows the interactive map system with identical objective markers and reference pins to drop at points of interest. Each area of Hyrule is obscured until you visit it, which is a simple way to remind players exploration is key. The menu and quick-menu structure mirrors those games, too. Scrolling through 100-plus echoes can be somewhat cumbersome, but you can sort them within five different parameters, including most/last used, which helps streamline the process. Instead of cooking meals, you can visit Deku smoothie shops. Mixing materials like fruits and monster parts into a wide selection of drinks lets you replenish hearts and provide stat buffs like resistance to cold, fire, increase dive time, damage resistance. Some materials can only be found by completing certain minigames or by exploring outside of the main questline, offering yet another reason to carefully survey your surroundings. Though Zelda doesn't have as many outfits as Link, there are two main ones and at least a few cute garments earned through side quests and by scanning Amiibo figures.
If you played the Link's Awakening remake, you already know that Echoes of Wisdom has gorgeous, colorful visuals. Unfortunately, it also shares Link's Awakening's intermittent frame-rate issues, albeit to a lesser extent. It's a larger game with a lot more moving pieces, so it's clear optimizations to the engine were made. Critically, I never noticed slowdown when conjuring echoes--even when throwing eight of them on the map in rapid succession. The slowdown, like Link's Awakening, appears to be tied to rendering the world map.
Nearly the entire map is accessible from the start, though you'll need to upgrade the Tri Rod to reach collectibles and solve certain puzzles throughout the overworld. Main quests can be completed in the order of your choosing, at least to a certain extent. After the first dungeon, you can head to either Gerudo Desert or Jabul Waters to help the two Zora factions. These first three dungeons (called Ruins) reminded me of Ocarina of Time's Young Link phase. The mid-game dungeon is the same for everyone before opening up with three different paths for the larger temples.
Being able to explore freely and bounce around between quests for a change of scenery makes Echoes of Wisdom feel like a semi-open-world adventure. Unfortunately, the path I went down in my first playthrough led to a full-on game-breaking bug that placed an invisible barrier at the entrance of Goron City. Since you need to go inside to complete the Eldin Temple main quest, I was left with no choice but to abandon my 35-hour save file, which included numerous hours of troubleshooting without success, and start again. GameSpot informed Nintendo of the bug, and we will update this review if we can confirm it has been fixed. It's worth noting my colleague did not encounter this issue. Though I don't know what caused the bug, here's what I did during my second playthrough: I started the main quest in Kakariko Village and proceeded straight to Goron City before touching any of the optional content in the region.
With only one dungeon and the final area remaining, the bug required me to make use of the second save slot far sooner than I normally would in a Zelda game. If there's a silver lining to abandoning 35 hours of playtime and starting from scratch, it's that I gained a greater appreciation for the versatility of echoes and developed new strategies that made replaying each dungeon as interesting as the first time, for a different reason. Obviously the thrill of learning how to solve many of the puzzles was gone, but optimizing my play style with learned strategies made me enjoy the second playthrough almost as much as the first. Rather than walking in my own footsteps, I often unconsciously gravitated toward new solutions.
My total playtime eclipsed 65 hours, but if I had been able to complete the game during my first playthrough, I likely would have rolled credits around the 30-hour mark. It's not Tears of the Kingdom or Breath of the Wild big, but Echoes of Wisdom is larger than many fans would likely expect from a top-down Zelda game.
If Zelda's debut in the spotlight is a one-off, at least it's a memorable adventure. But hopefully this is the beginning of a new legend for the heroine. Echoes of Wisdom's brilliantly integrated echoes system links two eras, proving that the freeform mechanics of the new age can coexist with the franchise's classic formula. Don't mistake this for a spin-off or minor entry between big "mainline" games: The Legend of Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom is a major moment that shouldn't be missed.
Discovery in video games has changed over the last 40 years. While we are arguably in a golden age of creativity and innovation in the medium, it's a different type of creativity than when games were in their infancy--learning to crawl, grappling for new ideas, and guessing at best practices. Modern-day games have become largely standardized, and that's mostly for the better. But when we look back at retro game collections like the NES Classic or compilations from Digital Eclipse, we're often remembering the trailblazers, not the oddballs. That's what makes UFO 50 so special--it invokes the sense of wild experimentation and surprise that you would find in a cross-section of the earliest video games.
The pitch is simple: UFO 50 is a compilation of fictional retro games made throughout the 1980s by a prolific developer called UFO Soft. They range from 1982 to 1989, and span across the entire gamut of retro genres. The presentation leans into this, as selecting a game for the first time has you blowing the dust off of it. You get the sense that you discovered these forgotten gems in an attic or garage sale. And for the most part, the games carry the design and story aesthetic that was common in '80s games, which I would describe as "sci-fi pulp as reimagined by early computer programmers."
In reality, of course, the games were created by a team of modern-day developers led by Spelunky's Derek Yu. That makes the decision to make not just a retro game but 50 retro games remarkably ambitious. One would expect such a massive undertaking to result in minigames at most, but that is not the case. These are almost universally the size and scope of actual games you would buy in the 1980s--still often smaller than the games we'd expect today, but not compromised for their fictional time period.
And while UFO 50 doesn't tell a straightforward narrative story, there is a lot of richness to be found in the meta-fiction of UFO Soft. You see the logo changing over time. The games themselves get more complex and more refined, and have better art direction and better quality-of-life features, over the fictional timeline. The games themselves have little notes about their development, and you can piece together criss-crossing plotlines involving the studio's personalities and leadership. The occasional sequel will appear, showing an early style of iterative development that might result in radically different gameplay styles springing from the same core concepts. One of the games--a point-and-click adventure called Night Manor--has glimpses of the early cinematic achievement that you could see being influential in the fiction of the world.
Like a lot of early games, the simplicity of the controls means you more-or-less figure out the game by playing. This can be slightly frustrating sometimes, especially when a game ventures into territory with more complex, board game-like mechanics, like Devilition. Others, like Mooncat, have strange and counterintuitive controls that I struggled to get a proper feel for. This is realistic in that a lot of old video games tried to approximate board-game complexity or experiment with control schemes, but the wealth of other games to play made it difficult to remain patient with those more inscrutable ones.
Despite basing themselves around retro games, though, most of these have some special twist or feature that makes them stand out from similar games of their genre. You can mark a game as a favorite for easy reference later, and as I reached further and the games grew more refined, I kept marking more and more of them, eager to go back and experience them all to their fullest. And while UFO 50 is very casual in how it lets you approach the games in any order, there is a reward for delving deeply into each one--you get rewards to place in your garden for an achievement in each game, along with a golden cartridge for finishing it.
To give a taste, here are mini-reviews of some of my favorites in the compilation:
Mortol
This puzzle platformer gives you an array of peons willing to sacrifice themselves for the greater good, making your resources and lives draw from the same large pool. Each one can perform a "ritual" to stick into walls, turn into a stone block, or blow up passages, so you progress through the stage by carefully managing when and how to sacrifice them to keep progressing further. It was followed by a sequel, Mortol II, later in the collection, which includes a more sophisticated class-based system for utilizing your willing sacrifices, but there's something very pure and engaging about the original idea.
Bushido Ball
A dodgeball-meets-fighting game with a selection of samurai characters to choose from. You smack the projectiles with your katana to ricochet it back at the other side, and on top of requiring precision timing, each character has their own special abilities, providing lots of replay value and room for skill-building.
Camouflage
Camouflage is a brilliant little puzzle game with a root in stealth mechanics. As a largely helpless chameleon, you need to navigate to your home while avoiding watchful predators. But being a chameleon, you can change your colors to match the tile you're standing on. That makes navigating through a stage a tense exercise in planning your route to pick up new camouflage patterns. For extra challenge, each stage has collectibles to pick up, including a baby chameleon who will follow you around and pick up its own camouflage pattern, thus doubling the challenge.
Party House
Possibly my favorite surprise of the bunch, Party House is an ingenious puzzle game with mechanics similar to modern deck-builders. You're given a strict number of turns to throw a series of parties, and you control the guest list. Each guest comes with bonuses to your cash and popularity--cash expands your house, and popularity goes toward inviting new guests. Some guests have "Troublemaker" attributes that will attract the cops, while others might sacrifice some popularity for cash, or vice-versa. Dancers stack as a multiplier for popularity. One party-goer even brings a random friend who risks overloading your party and summoning the fire marshall to kick someone out.
The party commences, a random assortment of your rolodex of party-goers shows up, and you tabulate your cash and popularity to put toward the next party, all while steering toward some particular win condition like having four aliens attend a single party. It's shockingly compelling, and easy to keep the party going for just one more turn late into the night.
The Big Bell Race
The is one of the shortest games of the collection but also one most suited to multiplayer. The Big Bell Race is pure game mechanics: You're a spaceship navigating through a boxy maze-like racetrack while bouncing off the other racing ships and grabbing power-ups that create track hazards for your competitors. A single tournament is eight quick races, but the competition can be fierce, and you can always play two-player to bump elbows against a friend.
Warptank
At first glance, Warptank appears similar to the classic Blaster Master tank segments, but it's the "warp" in the name that really sets it apart. At any point, your tank can flip from floor to ceiling or to opposing walls. Navigating a stage is a delicate balance of avoiding traps and taking out enemies by frequently gaining access to new vantage points, giving it a fierce action-game feeling that also tickles your brain.
Vainger
This metroidvania-like platformer has a hook similar to Warptank, but the application of it in this genre makes it feel very different. As an alien soldier, you can swap the gravity polarity by double-tapping the jump button, so all of the traps and enemies are positioned to take advantage of stages that could be upside-down at any time. The result is something like the second quest of Symphony of the Night in a reversed castle, except you control when the whole thing flips on its head.
Pingolf
Lots of early games tried to approximate sports like golf, but Pingolf is a more modern take with a sci-fi aesthetic. The side-scrolling stages are set up like platforming stages with some elements of pinball, with narrow corners and bounce pads. It feels not quite like anything else, though the closest analogue is probably the recent Cursed to Golf.
Fist Hell
It wouldn't be a retro-style compilation without a River City Ransom riff, but Fist Hell sets itself apart with fantastic pixel art and an engaging hook: zombies! You're taking on the hordes of the undead with nothing but your fists and found objects, which leads to neat twists like lopping the skull off of one zombie and throwing it at another. It's the kind of comical early gore that felt daring in the '80s, and with four characters to choose from, there's lots of replay value.
Valbrace
Another surprising favorite from a genre I haven't had much experience with, Valbrace is a first-person dungeon-crawling RPG, similar to Dungeon Master or Wizardry 2. The presentation is top-notch for emulating the peculiar, pixelated look of those dungeon crawlers, and when you encounter monsters, you enter a more active real-time third-person combat system. What really helps it stand out, though, is the magic system, which maps spells onto a particular pattern drawn with your D-pad. You discover those spells as you proceed through the dungeon, but even if you die, the spell pattern will still work on your next run. That means if you can remember the spells--or map them onto graph paper--you'll make each subsequent run that much easier.
Rakshasa
A side-scrolling action game along the lineage of Ghosts & Goblins, this one has you taking on hordes of demons with a unique revival mechanic. You're extremely vulnerable to attacks and bound to die, but each time you die, you can recover your life by navigating around the demons of the spiritual plane. Each time you die, more demons are added, making it increasingly difficult--but not impossible--to recover your body.
Star Waspir
This is less of a retro genre reimagined, and more of an anachronistic take on the bullet hell. Lots of shoot-'em-ups graced the NES and its similarly powered consoles, but Star Waspir has the tense risk-reward dynamic of populating constant power-ups that are just temptingly close to enemy fire. It's the kind of tough, responsive combat that has made the genre such a hit, given new context through a retro filter.
Grimstone
An old-school JRPG-style game set in a fantastical version of the Old West, Grimstone begins as an angel rescues a handful of adventurers from a burning saloon, who then form a posse to go after outlaws. The aesthetic is reminiscent of the earliest Final Fantasy games, but its setting and a timing-based combat system gives it a modern twist.
Lords of Diskonia
What if a strategy game got a dose of air hockey? Lords of Diskonia has you collect income from villages and use it to buy an army of knights, archers, champions, and more, and then take them into battle. But far from a typical warzone, your soldiers here are differently sized circular disks who get fired into and bump against enemy units to attack. It's a wildly different take on the strategy genre and feels tactical and dynamic at once.
Cyber Owls
The final game of the collection is also a smart, cheeky commentary on the prominence of Turtle-mania in the late '80s, and the efforts from just about every cartoon studio or video game developer to make their own franchise-friendly animals with attitude. Cyber Owls is the kind of game you'd see then, with an elite band of owl soldiers, each with their own stages to match their specialty--from beat-'em-up to stealth action. It's probably the single most varied game of the set, and one of the most cinematic, serving as a perfect bookend to the fictional journey of game development throughout the decade.
Simply put, UFO 50 is an audacious triumph. Dozens of the games are compelling enough to warrant a full playthrough, and even some of the less successful experiments have some intriguing element or inventive idea to draw you in. Best of all, it's exciting to have such a rich vein of strange, creative video game experiences to examine. This is nostalgia, but not the candy-coated feeling of reliving what we've already experienced. It's remembering how it felt to discover something new.
As a high schooler in 2006, I spent many months and what little money I had renting screen time with an Xbox 360 in a mall store that had dozens of TVs and consoles available for use at hourly rates. Several visits and two years later, I'd saved up enough money to buy myself the console, no longer willing to be only a part-time player of the game I'd wanted: Capcom's Dead Rising. Nearly 20 years since then, it's been entertaining to discover that it still holds up as an endearing, open-world zombie game that undoubtedly has its flaws. Dead Rising Deluxe Remaster isn't a new entry in the series I hope we one day get, but it's a fun return to the roots of a series that has a unique voice and, for better or worse, strange design choices.
Dead Rising Deluxe Remaster (DRDR) is not a remake. The title should give that away, but the line between remake and remaster has been blurred as of late, so I stress that as a means to explain that this game is, in most major ways, the same as it was. Changes come largely in the form of quality-of-life fixes and a welcome visual overhaul, but the bones of the original game--the dimensions of its mall setting, the tonally chaotic cutscenes, the feel of protagonist Frank West's wrestling moves and melee attacks--that's all as it was before. This puts a cap on the game's appeal in 2024, as several of its systems were awkward even in 2006, and have aged poorly since.
Essentially playing as Capcom's other zombie saga alongside the much older Resident Evil, and a darkly comedic take on Romero's Dawn of the Dead, Dead Rising is about a zombie outbreak that begins in a mall in Willamette, Colorado. Photojournalist Frank West, a self-serious investigator whom you can nonetheless dress up in a significant number of absurd costumes, arrives to look into the matter, then gets trapped in the mall with dozens of other human survivors. Surrounded by hordes of the undead whenever he steps out of the safe room, his mission is to determine the cause of the zombie plague, survive the outbreak until rescue arrives, and save as many others as he can.
Sometimes, this means following a mission marker toward signs of commotion, where Frank might find a survivor or several holed up in the back of a jewelry store or supermarket. He'll need to escort them back to the safe room, leading to frustration as the NPCs make for unreliable escort missions. They're bad at finding a path through the undead and tend to get grabbed or slashed. Thankfully, you can arm and heal them along the way, but a limited inventory system means you'll often juggle bringing what you need to lead the pack and what the pack needs to follow you toward their salvation.
This is the most glaring of the game's original pain points that reappears due to DRDR being only a remaster and not a remake. Though the game offers several welcome fixes to be discussed later in this review, the survivability of NPC allies is not among them. As a photojournalist, Frank has covered wars, but in this mall, he's babysitting.
Sometimes, you'll come upon desperate survivors merely by chance or through exploration--the game won't tell you of their whereabouts in your mission log, but you might hear them crying out while slicing zombies in half with a katana at the faux Starbucks. Dead Rising's tone is constantly shifting. It's not so much that it's at war with itself; that phrasing implies conflict. Instead, it feels purpose-built to be all over the emotional map. You won't find a truly gut-wrenching moment in the story--due to how corny most characters are, it's unlikely you'll feel for anyone in such a deep manner--but you'll find plenty of somberness.
Some missions play out with the seriousness of a murder charge, while others unfold with spin-kicks and cheesy dialogue that would feel at home in a B-movie. Even the game's photography mechanics, which let you take great pics for XP (or "PP," as this game calls it) reward you for taking dramatic and horrific photos, like people being eaten alive, but also comedic pictures, too, such as images of zombies you've forced into costumes. Ultimately, this blend of tones comes out of the wash as something closer to the absurd. Even when it's hinting at seriousness, Dead Rising is ridiculous, and it's better for it.
This is never more evident than it is with the game's many bosses, who are called psychopaths. Each of them is found in different parts of the mall at different times throughout the story, and they tend to personify some element of United States culture that the developers pick on through these over-acted caricatures of people, even when the real-life issues may be much more deserving of solemnity. A family of hunters who turn their attention to human targets hits on America's uniquely problematic gun culture. A power-tripping cop takes hostages in a women's clothing store, abusing the victims in a strange funhouse mirror reflection of real-life issues. A war vet suffering from PTSD can't separate real life from his haunting memories.
None of these characters says anything meaningful in the end, though it also doesn't feel like the studio has missed its intended mark; they all feel like cartoonish displays of America's worst attributes, and that's all. Any commentary anyone wishes to add to them feels like it's not in the game's text or subtext. One could contribute thousands of words on this design decision and any good or harm it may do, but ultimately it feels like Capcom is merely shitposting, so why bother? I find them neither offensive nor insightful. In some cases, I'm sure they'd be handled differently today, but I mainly just find them loud and silly.
These NPCs, hidden characters, and bosses combine with the game's universal timer system to make a perfect run of the game--completing all missions, saving all survivors, and killing all bosses--either exciting or maddening, depending on what you're into. For my taste, achieving this is more pain than pleasure, given some of the game's yet-to-be-mentioned flaws, though here in the remaster I found I don't mind the timer itself as much as I used to. Essentially, the game is constantly aware of its day-night cycle. Hours don't tick by in real-time, but they do tick by at a rate consistent in its world, so you can reliably plan ahead as you carve out routes through the hordes and missions slowly evaporate off your quest log forever if you don't complete them in time.
Secret shortcuts can be found, and vehicles, as poor as their controls still feel 18 years later, can be driven across the expansive courtyard between mall sections. There's ultimately one optimal, rigid path through the 12-hour game that will allow you to make excellent use of your time so you can see and do everything, and finding it was once a communal effort. Today these answers are widely available online since the internet optimized all of this nearly 20 years ago, and though newcomers who may have enjoyed those group brainstorm sessions can't really partake in them anymore, it's also true that players frustrated by such a setup can smooth over these rough parts more easily.
Dead Rising has an uncommon crowdsourcing aspect to it, which makes it a fascinating game despite its faults. You have to know when to look for the survivors you're not warned about. You learn, via comment sections on GameFAQs threads that would be old enough to drive, when you should bring a train of NPCs with you to some other section of the mall to grab an important item for a soon-to-be-needy survivor stashed in your safe room, or when to beeline it for that safe room because a powerful trio of bosses roaming in a humvee will soon spawn in the courtyard, and they'll almost surely run over your allies if you give them the chance. You can learn these things on your own, but you'll probably learn them the hard way.
All of this also ties into the game's roguelite element, which is technically optional but likely to be used at least once or twice in any playthrough. Whenever Frank dies, you can elect to reload your last save or start from the very beginning of the game while keeping his level and skills intact. Early on, Frank is slow, devoid of helpful attack moves, and has little in the way of health or inventory space, making some missions extremely difficult to beat on a single run. It can be done, but your best bet is to reset the story with a sturdier Frank. That's true for a standard run in which you'd just like to beat the game, but especially for those seeking the flawless playthrough.
This was an uncommon approach in 2006 and feels even stranger today, given how popular roguelites have become. Dead Rising doesn't do much with this one aspect of the genre, and though it's very helpful to restart the story once you think you've hit your limit at your current level, it's easy to imagine how a modern take on this game would either remove this system completely or make it more robust and interesting.
Sometimes, force-multiplying these frustrations are its uneven combat systems. On one hand, being left in a mall in which virtually everything is a weapon is such an awesome video game premise. You can scavenge for guns, blades, and baseball bats, or you can chuck trash cans, benches, and tables at the shambling undead. Similarly, you can heal with an impressive number of food items like gallons of orange juice and coffee creamer, or whole pies and two-foot baguettes, all of which Frank consumes in a few swift, cartoonish gulps a la Scooby-Doo.
There are also a great number of novelty weapons, some of which, like the world itself, offer secrets that make them better-performing. An early boss drops the best weapon in the game once he's defeated, and after that, it permanently respawns by the mall's roller coaster whenever you want another one of them to counter the game's durability system. But if you equip this weapon while also stashing three specific skill-boosting magazines in your inventory, collected from various stores around the mall, the weapon's durability improves exactly 27 times over, making just one of them effectively the only weapon you need for the entire game.
As a result, this weapon is sort of game-breaking--at the very least, it removes the emphasis on scavenging for new tools like you're meant to--but since the combat is choppy and prone to seeing you whiff on a move only to have your throat eaten, I find it to be the best way to play. The way zombies slowly chase you once you're within their sight means you'll constantly have to serpentine through crowds to try and improve your ability to dodge their attacks. Quicktime events (QTE) occur when you're grabbed, and though they're easy enough to escape, they're also so common that traversing the mall can become death by a thousand cuts if you haven't pocketed a few gallons of OJ or several ears of corn.
Dead Rising's zombies have a knack for snatching you when you're vulnerable, like in the second between when you grab a shopping cart--which slightly improves movement speed--and when you can actually pick up enough speed to glide around the parking garage with it. More often, it's the brief moment following a dive ability, which Frank can only perform every five seconds or so, when another zombie will grab him and remove a pip of health even if you've passed the QTE.
Beyond basic melee attacks and guns, Frank also unlocks a number of maneuvers performed on the controller with short chains of button presses that have been overhauled to be easier to do. These further paint the world in absurdity. As I leveled up, I unlocked moves such as standing on the shoulders of zombies like a crowd-surfing rockstar, a soccer-style bicycle kick that whacks zombie heads clean off their shoulders, and disemboweling the undead with a gnarly gut punch like something out of The Boys. Eventually, I could even perform moves that are yanked right out of pro wrestling, like a bulldog and a German suplex.
None of these moves is very effective in clearing a horde given they can usually only harm one zombie of the several dozen that may be near you at any point, but some of them prove their usefulness in specific moments, like a jump-kick that can get a zombie to stop chewing on an ally without significantly hurting the ally themselves.
It may sound like I have a lot of qualms about a game I praised to open this review, but many of its quirks and even some of its flaws ultimately make Dead Rising special, too. While it's annoying to be caught in a zombie's clutches because of stilted attacks or movement, such a moment unfolds in a mall playing once-cheery Muzak on a loop as zombies dressed in giant Servbot heads trip into fountains or reach toward Frank--who may by then be dressed as a child, Mega Man, or the mall's bee mascot--from the other side of a smoothie bar. The world is consistently ridiculous in its sights and sounds, and its gameplay woes often fall by the wayside as a result. This isn't true for a late-game enemy type that is more frustrating than I remembered (and won't spoil), but otherwise, Dead Rising is like an adorable puppy that pooped on the carpet; I can't easily stay mad at it.
That's truer in the Deluxe Remaster version than ever before, because though the total package of Dead Rising has aged to be a worse game than it was in 2006, this is also clearly, and perhaps paradoxically, the best version of the game. Several quality-of-life changes have provided the conveniences the open-world genre normally affords players. Frank can now move and shoot simultaneously, which was annoyingly outside his capabilities in the original game. A compass at the top of the screen now helpfully points you toward the optimal route, even adjusting to reflect optional shortcuts once you've unlocked them. Meters inform you of a weapon's remaining durability, removing the guessing game from this mechanic like the original had.
Arguably, the most important aspect is the ability to advance time, which allows you to speed up those smaller chunks of time between when you've done all you want to and when the next main mission unlocks in the game's universal timer. For perfectionists, this also helps you min-max Frank through early playthroughs so you can climb to level 50 faster and perform the perfect run. It's worth noting, however, you still don't choose what upgrades you unlock. Instead, each upgrade, be it a speed boost, another inventory slot, a wrestling move, or something else, is tied to a specific level. That seems like an additional detail a new Dead Rising would rightly redesign, but in 2024's remaster, it's another head-scratcher in a game full of sometimes-charming design conundrums.
My favorite of the game's changes, however, is so simple and yet so welcome: auto-saves. Before, if you didn't go to a restroom to save your game and then you died, you'd lose everything you'd done since your last save--though you'd at least keep your level for the roguelite reset option. Because saving took you off the path you were on at times, this also ate into your available time. Now, the game saves whenever you transition from one section of the world to another, like when you exit the safe room or move from the North Plaza to the supermarket, keeping you on track and being much less punishing if you've failed to save for a while.
All of these new elements make the game clearly better than the original version, which I'd say is also true of the visual overhaul. Moving to Capcom's proprietary RE Engine, DRDR adopts newer Resident Evil games' touch of sepia tones, which alters the game's overall color palette in a way that may have some video game preservationists up in arms. I don't mind it though, as it's ultimately pretty subtle unless you compare the versions side-by-side and notice some blue hues swapped for shades of tan. Along with that, the modern conveniences like much better textures and stronger facial animations mean the game looks modern, though Frank's facial features have been made a bit harsher for some reason. His newly furrowing brow makes him look much grumpier than he is, though that isn't to say he's not grumpy.
Dead Rising Deluxe Remaster is a better version of a classic, flawed game. Those blemishes are sometimes more glaring today, but some great fixes to the overall package also erase some other issues entirely. Its timeless qualities, like an absurd story and a fun setting, keep it from feeling like an unwelcome retread. Still, I'd hope the next Dead Rising fixes a lot of what this one does poorly--and even some of its sequels did that, so it seems likely. In 2024, Dead Rising is no longer the sort of game that would make me run out and buy a new console, but it is a game that I'm happy to revisit in this improved form.
Frostpunk 2 is a compelling, while cynical, view of survival, and a challenging strategy game that sets itself apart from its contemporaries in the city-building genre. Did I feel good watching a city I had developed over the course of nine in-game years start to come apart at the seams, despite having a stockpile of resources to survive for years to come? No. But Frostpunk 2 taught me that I'm not supposed to feel good about it. Instead, it conditioned me to accept that, no matter my best-laid plans, unifying a society with a shared vision of the future was a fool's errand.
Like the first Frostpunk, this sequel is a survivalist city builder that sees you managing your resources to, hopefully, thrive in a world that's been frozen over and where fatal storms loom on the horizon, all while navigating the harrowing needs of the planet's last known survivors. Surviving mother nature's greatest woes is one thing, but surviving human nature is the true adversary. This means that while you build a city, you're also building the values of society's future, creating two distressing challenges to juggle at once. Governing the laws and vision of the future was a defining characteristic of the first Frostpunk, and what separated it from other city builders of the genre at the time--Frostpunk 2 is a natural evolution of that.
Taking place 30 years after the events of its predecessor, Frostpunk 2 starts with the captain dead, and the city needing to grow and go on without him. You play as a steward, less a leader like the first game's captain, and more a mediator for the needs of the city and its people. No longer can you simply pass a law to replace food with sawdust--as a steward, passing that law means taking it to a council made up of the city's communities where its enactment is determined by a vote.
Being made an agent between parties rather than a ruler is what makes Frostpunk 2 a significantly different experience from the first, and in doing so, makes it an excellent entry point for new players. While both games share the same values of building a city and navigating human nature by way of forming laws and societal views, Frostpunk 2 carries over very little in moment-to-moment gameplay from the first, making much of the city-building, law passing, and technological research completely new and its own.
Taking position as a mediator is itself a unique take in a genre that's repeatedly put players in a god-like position to dictate and create. Frostpunk 2 strips that power from you, and asks you to pick sides, or in most cases, the lesser of several evils, in order to sustain a functioning society. It's the change in power dynamic that cements Frostpunk 2's themes best, and makes it more a meditation in accepting that you can not, and will not, please everyone. This is a theme that existed in the first, but the depth of its exploration pales in comparison to how its successor puts it at the forefront.
Trudging through morally despicable areas is familiar territory for returning Frostpunk players, whether that's instilling child labor or allowing public executions, but Frostpunk 2 makes these choices less black and white, and expands them into grayer tones by way of complex and layered social systems.
In Frostpunk 2, you keep track of how your city is faring through trust and tension, as opposed to the first game's hope and discontent. Trust is indicated with a bar at the bottom of the screen, while tension is depicted using a Schlenk flask that will bubble and boil as societal unrest rises. If you make too many disagreeable choices then the trust of your citizens diminishes, giving you a short window of time to gain it back before you're exiled. The same happens if tension boils over from crime, squalor, disease, and hunger. Thing is, the basic necessities of a human's existence, whether it's shelter, food, or heat, are only a small facet of the myriad of other factors that determine your success as a steward in Frostpunk 2. This time, you must uphold relations with the city's communities too.
Several communities can form in your city, each with their own set of morals, beliefs, and ideologies. While some communities will have overlapping values, each one still has a distinct view of what is best for the city. The Machinists beliefs, for example, are founded on technology being the path to a better future. The Lords, on the other hand, reject the advancement of technology and believe in upholding the traditions of life before the world fell to the ice age. The addition of communities paint a clear image of how this world has developed since the first, which gave weight to the world and its ongoing progression. If you build your city on the values of one community more than the other, then members of that community may split off to form a radicalized faction based on those beliefs, becoming an extremist borough all its own. The game features several communities, with each playthrough orienting around three at any given time. In addition, there are numerous factions that can form within each community, many of which I'm still discovering. All of them have their own influence on the choices you make to develop your city, so the level of complexity is high and the balance tricky to strike.
While many games often put you in a position where you can still succeed by choosing to back a sole faction, it's not quite as cut-and-dry in Frostpunk 2. Balancing the needs and beliefs of a faction is like tending a flickering flame so you don't set your house ablaze. Or, in this case, your city. As previously mentioned, if a faction's views are rejected enough, they'll protest and that will raise tension. But on the other end, if they're favored too much, a devout cult-like following will begin to form, halting even your ability to mitigate the city's next development. As a player, I had no tolerance in supporting a radicalized group that teetered on fascist totalitarian beliefs, but despite rejecting its proposed laws or demands, I was faced with knowing they lived among my city and sat in my council‘s chairs. It created a rigid scenario for me to navigate and, knowing outwardly I couldn't simply banish them, I was forced to strategically play the long game in building up my own forces and prisons for when the inevitable protests began. This balance and power struggle made for exhilarating and stressful planning that got under my skin. Even when I wasn't playing Frostpunk 2, I would be scheming on how to tackle the next challenge or planning five steps ahead while going about my daily routine.
Communities and factions are the backbone of the game's densely interwoven systems, where every decision you make, from the buildings you erect, to the laws you pass and the ideas you research, weaves a web of permutations and possibilities. Each choice you make sets off a chain reaction that paves the way to new laws, ideas, and opportunities, as well as conflicts. Support a community that values economy and tradition, and new ideas to support those agendas emerge. However, equally, you close the door on potentially developing technology to better withstand the next harsh storm. Understanding how it all interlocks together is a steep learning curve that took me the entirety of the game's 15-hour story, but once understood, the game's impressive overlapping system of consequences is fully revealed, and opens up a tremendous amount of opportunity for experimentation that kept me coming back for more, no matter how sad this game can at times make me feel about humanity.
Every decision you make is put into context thanks to micro-stories that arise while you overlook your growing metropolis--a returning feature from the first. After a law was passed that proposed that all mothers don't work to instead raise their children as their sole responsibility, I was prompted with a choice from an angry husband who found out she spent her free time writing a novel. Either I destroyed the novel and increased relations with the communities that supported the law, or let her keep it, slightly raising the trust meter among the population. I let her keep it, and eventually I learned she finished it, and dedicated it to the steward. There's several of these tiny stories that pop-up, grounding you in the choices you're making and forcing you to look at the repercussions of your actions, for better or worse. It constantly feeds into the chain of events, and cause-and-effect of how the game is designed, and that shows even in its city building.
Building something as necessary as a research center to develop your city's ideas requires a series of actions, including breaking the ice to create a suitable foundation, building a housing district, and then expanding that district to enable a building slot in which you can place a research center. And each action requires a workforce and resources to fulfill. Building a hospital, for example, requires the idea to be researched, which can be done by any one community (which in-turn supports their ideologies), and that also requires the housing district to be expanded again before actually building the hospital. This is a small glimpse at the many variables of interconnected hurdles to manage and think ahead about. It can feel head-swelling, but as I came to understand Frostpunk 2's interconnected systems, it was equally inspiring to approach the cascading set of possibilities and maximize my strategy. It's that complexity, as head spinning as it can feel, that makes Frostpunk 2 an excellent sandbox for strategy.
Similarly, the staggering amount of laws to explore and the process in passing them requires careful consideration. Taking a law to council will see you navigating each community and faction, the process for which can vary based on the variables of your playthrough. At one point in my playthrough, passing a law meant negotiating between three communities and two factions at any given time. There are dozens upon dozens of laws split up between four categories--survival, city, society, and rule--with three sub-categories and several proposals in each one. It's a lot. Even with dozens of hours in-game, I've yet to explore or see them all. Each law has its own effect, whether it's requiring the sick to quarantine (which increases shelter demand), or making the sick wear a badge that identifies them as "infectious" (which raises tension). Both laws support a different community's values, and enacting the one you think is best requires negotiating with undecided parties.
Negotiating, in of itself, carries its own burden, as it requires making a promise to an undecided community. These promises can come by way of proposing a law they want, or even repealing one that currently exists. Or maybe it means simply paying them off.
There is a lot going on in Frostpunk 2, and it involves navigating a lot, and I mean a lot, of menus, as well as blocks of text to digest all of its rules and systems. It took me hours to confidently maneuver through the many menus within menus, which are a necessity to the game's layered design. It's hard to view it as a criticism, as I think its menu navigation is a best-case scenario, all things considered, but I can see it being a barrier of entry for some players, even returning ones.
To Frostpunk 2's credit, it does a good job of including text boxes and expandable tutorials over nearly every significant prompt and decision, which alleviates a lot of going back and forth by arming you with clear information and context. Even still, there are a number of occasions where I was prompted that I couldn't enact a specific building's perk, like rolling out guards for a protest, without having passed a specific law, and the game didn't tell me where that law was located among the many tabs of other laws, or what it specifically did. A link directly to that law would have been a nice quality-of-life feature to alleviate some friction. I did eventually find where that law was, but it came too late after having spent resources on another solution to the problem at hand.
It can be easy to get caught up in the minutia of navigating politics and making sure your city has all it needs to thrive; watching its streets flicker to life as it grows into a steampunk metropolis from a bird's-eye view. Between all the law-passing and stressful decision-making, expanding your metropolis is a rewarding achievement made tangible through a visual feast. Frostpunk 2 evolves one of the first's most distinct traits, and that is its unrelentingly dour and gray aesthetic. Frostpunk 2, while still chilling to the bone to look at, adds a much needed dose of color to its buildings, giving each district its own aesthetic, whether it's the housing district coated in blue paint, or the green brushed onto the industrial food extraction districts. It all gives an extra layer of personality, which is especially welcomed since you're able to zoom into a district, where you can occasionally spot some of your workers making snow angels. Details like this add the smallest glimpse of needed levity to a world that otherwise feels so depressing.
Exploring the frostland--the frozen land beyond your city limits--has also received some upgrades from the first, as now finding resources requires building connecting trailways back to your city. It also adds opportunities to set up additional colonies, which act like miniature versions of your city from which you can transport goods (just in case managing one city wasn't difficult enough). It's a necessary challenge as resources around your city--like coal, food, and materials--only provide enough to get your city started. It's imperative to explore the frostland to thrive and survive, but unlocking more areas of the overmap can get bogged down by a camera that doesn't zoom out enough to get the full lay of the land. Navigating the frostland and keeping track of outposts and planning ahead for future expeditions was accompanied by what felt like unnecessary stress due in part to its camera, making an already dense and convoluted game harder to manage.
After the credits rolled, I realized that there was still so much I hadn't quite understood, and that's only a side-effect to the nature of the game's intricate design. It's in Utopia mode, the game's endless mode, where its replayability and experimentation take full form. It's here where you can try your hand at developing a city in different scenarios of varying sizes and resources, whether that's to expand out into the frostland or create a heavily populated metropolis. The game also has spectacular difficulty customization, allowing you to change the variables of economy, weather, frostland, and society, making it a dream to tailor your experience how you see fit. Though I completed the story in 15 hours, I've doubled that in Utopia mode alone, and have several experiments of different difficulties and scenarios happening across several save files.
Frostpunk 2 doesn't replace the first game. Instead, it elevates its rawest themes of human nature to towering heights. It offers a significantly different challenge in its city-building that allows both games to exist in separate sectors of the genre, and it's better for it.
Developer 11 Bit Studios continues to follow a theme with each consecutive game, starting with its breakout success This War of Mine. With Frostpunk 2, 11 Bit Studios has built its systems and mechanics around asking you to make inconceivably difficult choices, most of which only lead to the best-case scenario, not the right one. Frostpunk 2 is a great step forward in both studios' evolution and the survival/city-building genre it helped pioneer.
The Plucky Squire is a game that will rightly receive a lot of attention for its eye-catching visual gimmick, which merges the worlds of 2D and 3D art around a clever story hook. But more than just its whizbang artistry, The Plucky Squire is a game that takes full advantage of its premise--telling a kid-friendly and heartfelt story, filling its well-realized world with lovable characters, and delivering constant surprises. It is a reminder, appropriately, to never judge a book by its cover.
You play as Jot, the titular "Plucky Squire" in a series of children's books of the same name. The series of picture books is popular enough to have inspired a large fan base and merch, which is absolutely believable given how playful and inviting it is. While Jot himself is the classic silent protagonist, the surrounding cast of characters are exuberant and frequently funny, and the world of Mojo itself, which the characters occupy, is colorful and imaginative.
Over time, the game reveals itself in layers of complexity. You begin playing through what appears to be a standard top-down adventure game, with the neat visual flourish that screen changes and cutscenes are marked by turning pages of the book. Before long though, the book's recurring villain, Humgrump, reveals his dastardly plan: the ability to kick Jot out of the book altogether. You're ejected forcefully out of the book and into the real world. That reveals the second layer, as Jot finds his way back into the book and then gains the power to jump in and out at will, using special "Metamagic" portals. When he jumps out of the book he roams around the desk of Sam, a 10-year-old boy who loves the Plucky Squire books.
I can't overstate how magical and seamless the transition feels between the two realities. When Jot and his friends are occupying the book, there is a lovely 2D visual language that would be at home in a real-life picture book, complemented by smooth animations and varied behaviors that bring all the characters to life. When Jot jumps out of the book, he magically transforms into a Rankin-Bass model of his 2D self, and the perspective shifts downward for a closer look. The two art styles look beautiful in their own right, while also being visually cohesive with each other. As you gain more abilities you're able to bring things from the outside world back into the book with you, and they have their own similar transition to the 2D plane.
The story of a protagonist being ousted from his own book, then finding his way back and chasing after the villain, would be compelling enough on its own. But The Plucky Squire adds extra emotional heft by establishing early that you're not just fighting for the fate of your own storybook. You're Sam's favorite book, his favorite hero, and you inspire him to draw his own characters and imagine his own worlds. You can see evidence of how much he loves Jot and the world of Mojo all over his room when you explore his desk. If Humgrump wins, it's not just Jot's world at risk, but Sam's future as a budding artist and writer as well.
Structurally, The Plucky Squire behaves like a mash-up of a 2D and 2.5D Zelda game, albeit with puzzle elements that revolve around the book-jumping gimmick, as you'll frequently have to jump in and out of the book to manipulate your environment. Since this is a story book, your activities are constantly being narrated, and sometimes even the words on the pages themselves must be manipulated for puzzle solving.
One moment you may be rearranging the words on the page to change an impassable barrier into a broken gate. A few minutes later and you're hopping outside of the book, trying to find an object that can help you inside the story. Sometimes you'll need to flip back a few pages to find a missing word you need to complete a word-puzzle. Occasionally the book will even change perspective, turning on its side to present a piece of the stage that is more vertically oriented.
Your ability to manipulate the book gets increasingly complex--eventually you can tilt the book to let objects inside it slide around, freeze certain pieces of the environment to keep them from moving, and even close the book to transfer an object from one page to another. The puzzle solutions hit a sweet spot of tickling your brain without venturing too far into the overly taxing or frustrating. If you do get stuck, there's almost always a hint totem nearby that will point you in the right direction without entirely spelling out the solution.
The hint system is Minibeard, a miniaturized simulacrum of your wizard mentor, Moonbeard. In the real world he manifests as a piece of merch: a My Talkin' Minibeard doll. Your other friends, a young witch in training named Violet and a rock-and-roll mountain troll named Thrash, round out the main cast. The land of Mojo has the surreal, comical stylings of a show like Adventure Time, with fun little touches throughout to give it a sense of personality and place. The city of Artia, the royal center of Mojo, is not only composed of artistic tools like paintbrushes, but also full of characters who visually reference famous works of art like Edvard Munch's The Scream or The Son of Man by Magritte. The mountain trolls are old-school metal-heads, and so many of the trees in their environment take the shape of throwing horns. Every time I thought I had seen everything the world of Mojo had to offer, it threw a new surprise that made me smile.
That's true for the gameplay as well. The Plucky Squire takes full advantage of its meta-breaking premise to introduce loads of variety that break up the pacing. In one early example, you need to venture outside the book to find a bow from a nearby elven huntress, only to discover that the one you're searching for resides in a Magic The Gathering-like CCG card. So you leap into the card and engage in a simple turn-based RPG battle to earn her bow. This only happens once in the game, and then it's off to the next activity. At another point, you jump into a spaceship mug and the game briefly turns into a side-scrolling shoot-em-up. Jot and his friends take part in boss battles that resemble Punch-Out, a color-matching puzzle game, and a rhythm game. It's genre tourism, but each of them is so well-crafted that they're more than welcome as breathers for the main adventure.
The result is a game that feels anchored safely in classic Zelda-like mechanics, while also allowing itself to be bursting with new ideas and creative touches that make the world lively and distinct. Those ideas continue right up until the final boss encounter, which introduces yet another new gameplay type that feels wholly different from everything that came before. This can be a risky proposition, as often games that venture too far outside their core mechanics at the very end can feel tacked on or lacking confidence in a finale. Thankfully, The Plucky Squire put just as much care and craftsmanship into this as it did its other genre experiments, helping it to feel like the culmination of a grand storybook adventure.
The Plucky Squire is a joyful story about creativity and inspiration that is itself both creative and frequently inspired. In the world of the game, The Plucky Squire is a beloved franchise and popular character with multiple entries in his long-running series. Here in the real world, he deserves to be a star too, and I can only hope this is the start of his success story.
Anecdotally, I've heard from a lot of people who say they're tired of roguelites. There's been a years-long run on this genre, especially in the indie space where drilling down on systems, rather than expensive environments and setpieces, can be cost-effective while still producing something exciting and worthwhile. Because a roguelite game can take so many different shapes, I've not yet had my fill of them. Maybe fatigue will set in one day, though if games in the genre continue to be as great as Wild Bastards, I don't think I'll ever grow weary of them.
Wild Bastards comes from Blue Manchu, the same studio that released Void Bastards in 2019. Like that prior project, Wild Bastards is a strategy-shooter hybrid wrapped in a roguelite framework. But where Void Bastards drew clear inspiration from games like BioShock and System Shock 2, comparisons for Wild Bastards are harder to draw. It's a fascinating blend of arena shooter, turn-based strategy, and even something like a single-player hero shooter all in one.
Wild Bastards is a sci-fi western mash-up with the same subtle sense of humor as the team's last game. In it, you'll explore procedurally generated clusters of planets in the hopes of reassembling your posse against all odds. Thirteen outlaws were killed by the game's main antagonist, and it's up to you to resurrect them and reassemble the titular Wild Bastards crew.
This is done in several intricate steps. First, you'll arrive on an overworld map and choose which planets you'll travel to as you make your way toward your crony at the end of the chain. This immediately demands thoughtfulness, as you can sometimes take a shorter and/or easier route to your goal, depending on which path you decide to go down. Some planets may be loaded with loot, like weapon mods, fast-travel beacons, and beans, which squash grudges or form friendships among your crew, but these same planets may also house tougher or more numerous enemies, as well as fierce conditions such as superstorms or obstructive snow.
From the space-travel map view, you can get a sense--but not a clear picture--of what each planet has to offer. This is the first in a multi-step process in which Void Bastards routinely challenges you to think ahead and stay alert of what you need to continue through a run, which ends if all of your recruited characters are dead at the same time.
You must land on every planet you pass, which initiates the game's turn-based gameplay mechanics. Here, you travel an allotted number of moves per turn around a board-game-like map crowded with villains, dangerous wildlife, and the precious loot you've arrived for. Any map is liable to have one to upwards of about 10 high-value items, such as abilities for your crew, mods for their loadouts, and most importantly, new crew members themselves. The bulk of the game is spent reforming the complete 13-member posse, so a successful run ends with you adding a new character to your lineup. It would be unlikely to gather them all without dying--though there is an ironman mode that challenges you to do this if you're up for it.
You can see all of a planet's pathways once you land, unlike the hazier space-travel map that contains secrets, but even without anything hidden from view at this point, it only gets more complicated. Each planet allows for one to four outlaws to be brought planetside for your mission, almost like they are living, breathing weapon loadouts chosen before you head into battle. During the turn-based map sections, you can't get hurt, though you can still ultimately inflict a lot more pain on your crew and make a successful run damn near impossible by making poor choices.
This is because every movement, from one tile to the next, has so much weight behind it. If you arrive with six moves to spare per turn, and a boss teased to be arriving on the map to hunt you down in five turns, and you'd need perhaps 40 steps to collect every high-value item on the map, when do you call it quits? Do you plot out the most time-saving path through the terrain, even if it means encountering more enemies along the way? Do you try to skillfully use the planet's helpful features, like teleporters that can get you the hell out of dodge quickly once you've grabbed your fallen friend or a stash of cash? Do you leave it all untouched and just beeline it for the exit tile because ultimately this planet is only a pit stop on the way to the loot you need on a later planet?
These are a few of what must be a dozen or more considerations each planet had me asking myself through the game's 20-hour campaign. The beauty of it all is that there's really no wrong answer, just easier and harder solutions. It was always up to me to decide when to say enough is enough, and once I said it, I'd then find out if I was right or wrong based on how I fared with my exit strategy. As my posse, featuring a robot sheriff, a spider-like alien, an anthropomorphized fireball, and more, I could quite literally buck around and find out.
Each time you land on a space enemies occupy (or they land on your space), you enter the game's final stage of its three-part gameplay loop; there, a "showdown" where rootin' tootin' first-person shootin' kicks off. This moves the game from a turn-based board game to traditional FPS gameplay unfolding on procedurally generated levels with touches of Quake and Overwatch simultaneously. Each map has an arena-like quality to it, with high and low vantage points, environmental hazards, some destructible elements--though which parts would or would not break remained a bit unclear for me for much of the game--and a host of villains to eliminate before you can escape and return to the turn-based planet map.
The gunplay is pixel-perfectly reliable no matter which of the 13 diverse characters you've brought with you onto the planet. Just like Void Bastards before it, I find there's something about the game's 2D objects in a 3D world that makes aiming incredibly satisfying and trustworthy. Maybe it's because its distinct solid lines and breaks in colors help me intuitively track my target better than, say, a moving target in a Call of Duty where everything tends to be a vaguer mist of military garb, natural flora colors, and probably some explosions. Here, the game's artwork not only looks gorgeous and stylized, but it aids an already excellent-feeling experience on the controller or mouse and keyboard alike.
I'm thankful those mechanics are so reliable, because it makes each of the 13 playable characters, effectively hero-shooter characters built for solo play, so much fun to use. No two characters are anything alike. They each have their own weapon, voice, backstory, and can form relationships with other outlaws that help or hinder the group, like becoming friends with a member so that they will buff one another in showdowns, or causing a ruckus to the point that you can't even pair them on missions together until their conflict is resolved. You'll no doubt lean on your favorites--mine included an alien with a high jump and a ray gun, a militarized horse with an augmented targeting system, and a card dealer equipped with a punishing double-barrel shotgun--but there's not a bad outlaw in the wild bunch.
The individual gang members account for a wide variety of ranged attacks and play styles. Hopalong, for example, is a python who can slither very fast around the map, flanking enemies to lasso them and choke them out from close range. The Judge is a tank with a slow-loading rifle that specializes in critical hits. Kaboom is a ball of talking pinkish mist who can throw dynamite up and over enemy barricades or into open windows where they're hunkering down.
Because of each character's use cases, you'll find groups you like to bring on missions together, like using Fletch's bow and arrow that can turn enemies into friendlies, allowing you to amass an army of good guys to take on an incoming boss with Sarge, a horse who can locate enemies from great distances, preventing them from flanking you. When you've turned a half-dozen villains into allies and you can no longer lose sight of the boss, it feels like the climax of a Marvel movie when all the heroes storm the enemy with dramatic flair.
The game's social system can be a little unclear, however. It allows you to form friendships between pairings of different outlaws or sometimes even creates grudges. In the latter's case, these tended to occur as preordained story beats meant to cause friction in your squad and give you a new challenge to overcome. Feuding allies can't beam down to a planet together, so you'd need to separate them like argumentative siblings until they hashed it out over a shared can of beans.
When friendships form, allies will provide extra support to their buddies, like one hero sending a pack of four-legged robot "koyotes" with you to start a mission. I liked the effects of this system in either direction, but it was usually unclear to me how I was affecting it beyond cooking up beans to immediately form bonds or rebuild bridges. Whenever these outcomes would occur following a mission, I wasn't sure why, and it almost seemed random outside of the scripted story beats.
Each character can be further tuned for specific builds, like turning the gatling gun-equipped Preach into a health-siphoning vampire, or piling on The Judge's tank-like qualities with layers of additional armor that protect his HP across many showdowns if you're careful. Leveling them up via cards found on planets, managing their stamina, and keeping them above 0 HP (or at least healing them if they dip that low) adds layers to systems already well-layered, and each one is a welcome new twist to your preparation and routine.
The nature of each showdown tends to involve several enemies from the game's expansive lineup of baddies flanking you from different directions, forcing you to control a crowd of enemies that may likely vary more than your small handful of characters brought into the showdown. You can switch between any characters you brought with you on a whim, and they'll immediately replace the previous one--again, think of it like switching weapons, except in this case, you're trading one whole being for another instantaneously. This usually makes a showdown fast-paced, though depending on which enemies you're pitted against, it may be more of a knock-down, drag-out fight with perhaps just one single ultra-sturdy foe. At other points, you may be aimlessly tossing dynamite in the direction of enemy voice lines, hoping you'll land a stick close enough to their boots to clear a small group. I enjoyed each showdown no matter its composition.
Knowing when to grab a level's pick-ups--should it have any--is yet another consideration. One of my favorite details is how Casino's ability will randomly kill only but always exactly one enemy in the showdown. If you pick up that item in a boss battle and save it for when only the boss remains, you can kill them with the simple press of a button. Where other games may restrict you from trying such a smart maneuver and force you to take on the boss with other means, Wild Bastards rewards you for being so savvy.
To understand the game's many layers is to be excitedly challenged by them at all times. Seeking the optimal path through a complex web of interlocking systems makes finding it immensely gratifying. I knew I could make it through any scenario if I only played each one the right way, and that always felt within my grasp. Only my execution might fail me.
After a few failures, I felt like I could see through the matrix and knew where I'd gone wrong--maybe I waited to leave a planet for too long and the boss buried me, or I got cocky and bum-rushed the last enemy in a showdown who proceeded to one-shot me, when a more patient version of events likely would've meant victory. I never felt like anything that went wrong was the game putting its thumb on the scale. Each time I'd master a new system or think I'd found my groove, more layers would be there to force me to adapt, but never in a way that felt like it was piling on just so I'd have to play more than a few runs to beat the game. A few scripted narrative moments demanded that I grew more acquainted with some of my least used anti-heroes, and when I ultimately emerged from that challenge victorious, I felt like I'd come out the other side scathed, but breathing, and better for it.
This three-tiered gameplay loop of seeking specific loot merely hinted at, then navigating a crowded hostile planet in search of that loot and life-saving materials, before ultimately squaring off with a lengthy list of enemy classes in stylish first-person gunfights makes every few minutes of gameplay feel like a chess match and an action movie at the same time.
Going hand-in-hand with its striking aesthetic is the game's subtle sense of humor. There's a lot more dialogue here than you might expect given the game can't reasonably be called story-driven. But the members of your posse have a long history, and you'll come to learn of it in playing a full successful run. Their personalities are surprisingly vibrant, though best of all are the enemies, who yell out some hilarious things. My favorite of them, the Hunters, speak with British accents and distort typical video-game callouts with needlessly complicated versions of the same sentiment. For example, rather than ask their cronies about my location, they'd cry out "Who perceives the hideous foe?" and instead of a standard, "I'm flanking!" they'd yell, "Perhaps a change of scenery!" It's very odd, and I found myself cracking up at these villains many times, sometimes even keeping them alive longer so I could hear more of their voice lines.
If there's any notable letdown for the game, it's the final few moments. Though the last of the procedurally generated maps certainly ramp up the difficulty to a noticeable but still fair degree, I actually hoped for some kind of final showdown that felt grander than all those before it, perhaps even letting me use a greater number of my outlaws or spread them across multiple major skirmishes to decide the fate of my run. I suppose this betrays some of the game's systems, and so it's sensible for it not to do this. But then, in lieu of that, the final act has a way of feeling no different than the several that led up to it. That still makes it a supremely satisfying strategy-shooter hybrid, but narratively, it unfolds anticlimactically.
But even as the last hour doesn't push the envelope one last time, I lost count of how many times Wild Bastards had already done so. Plus, for the most dedicated players, other game modes await after you beat the game, including one that throws many more variables into a run, which blends well with the game's expansive difficulty options that can make all of these aforementioned systems much easier or harder.
Wild Bastards is the second instance in as many games where Blue Manchu has left me mesmerized with its knack for creating intricate, interwoven gameplay systems and arranging them in such a way that rewards careful planning and skilled improvisation at different times. With a fantastic cast of 13 unique characters, tight gunplay, a striking sense of style and humor, and a deep array of possibilities in every part of its three-phase loop, Wild Bastards is unholstered brilliance.
In terms of story, there isn't really one to speak of. The game opens with our titular Sciuridae dropping into a secret government bunker to procure a golden acorn. Once the tasty treat is in your possession, you then obtain a pistol from a clumsy Agent Smith-looking spook before being unleashed on a suburban neighborhood to cause mischief and blast away dozens of government agents in search of more acorns. Gathering a specific number of nuts grants you access to new areas, leading to two eventual boss battles against a pair of agents known as Father and Mother (for reasons that aren't clear). Defeating both wraps up the game, covering the entire extent of Squirrel With a Gun's paper-thin narrative.
Lacking any semblance of a story is fine in a game like this, but you would naturally expect some kind of irreverent humor to compensate for the scarcity of character elsewhere. Squirrel With a Gun doesn't attempt to be funny with any sort of regularity; instead, it mainly relies on the image of a squirrel holding a comparatively large shotgun or rocket launcher to provide comedic relief. Maybe you'll get a kick out of a section where you waterski down a river or chuckle when the ragdoll physics break entirely, but humor is not this game's forte.
Combat is neither fun nor satisfying either. The only enemies you encounter are government agents who mostly just stand around waiting to die. They all ragdoll to death in a few bullets--whether you hit them in the shin or chest--but nailing a headshot does at least put the hapless spooks into a downed state that leaves them susceptible to a special takedown. These elaborate animations see our furry protagonist spin a six-shooter around like Revolver Ocelot and use the butt of a sniper as a blunt object. They're fun the first time, but there's only one of these animations for each weapon, so the novelty wears off quickly.
The only time the game's gunplay differs from other shooters in any meaningful way relates to your size. Whether it's a pistol or a shotgun, the force of each shot propels your tiny frame backward as you hold on for dear life. Due to the game's lackluster sound design and enemies' muted reactions, this still doesn't make your small arsenal of weapons feel particularly impactful. Having to realign your aim after every shot is simply a nuisance that further compounds the game's shallow gunplay as it struggles to justify its premise.
Fortunately, Squirrel With a Gun's puzzle-platforming fares slightly better. Its sandbox is fairly small, and aside from one house that's filled with lava, the rest of the properties in its bizarre suburban neighborhood are almost entirely empty. Nonetheless, each one essentially functions as a miniature level containing a number of golden acorns for you to collect. You can acquire some of these nuts via short platforming challenges, while others take an ounce of "logical" thinking to overcome. This might mean blowing up a barbeque and then gathering the smoking hot patties for those waiting with empty buns, or using kettlebells to weigh yourself down so you can sink to the bottom of a pool. Some of these conundrums require a moment of consideration, although the presence of a single solution ensures that there's no room for creativity.
On the platforming side, firing your gun into the ground as a means of double jumping is a far more interesting use of the game's firearms than any part of its combat. There's also some enjoyment to be had in figuring out how to traverse certain sections, but imprecise and floaty controls--not to mention an erratic camera that often obscures your view--are detrimental to any kind of precision platforming. Even simple leaps are often frustrating as you actively fight against the game's unpleasant movement.
On top of all this, Squirrel With a Gun is also plagued by a plethora of dire technical issues. Falling through the floor is a semi-regular occurrence, especially during the first boss fight. At one point, I ran into a glitch where the squirrel failed to materialize during a cutscene, which broke the whole game and forced me to restart. I encountered a few crashes and optimization issues on PC, too. It's not a particularly good-looking game, yet I still had to lower several settings to prevent the frame rate from tanking. While this isn't a technical shortcoming per se, the amount of music is also limited and quickly becomes grating as you're forced to suffer the same song over and over again.
Squirrel With a Gun isn't aggressively bad, and I didn't hate my time with it. It was basically just a thing that I did for four hours. Nothing about the experience really stands out; the whole game is entirely unremarkable and won't live long in the memory. It's kind of like seeing a squirrel in real life. You go, "Oh look, a squirrel," watch the furry critter scurry up a tree, and then get on with your day. That's Squirrel With a Gun in a nutshell.
Marvel Vs. Capcom Fighting Collection, however, brings together all six of those era-defining fighting games--along with the historic brawler that started the core partnership between Marvel and Capcom--in a new era. Thankfully, this package presents each game in a way that celebrates that storied past while also injecting new life into them with modern features, creating a collection that's up to the task of reintroducing these classics to a new age of players.
The meat of the collection is in the fighting games. Each of the six fighting games in this collection are the arcade version--no console ports to be found. This is of course the right call, as each title represents the purest form, running mostly as it was intended back in the 1990s--save for a few frame-rate issues that pop up from time to time. However, it also exposes which of these games are showing their age, and which can still stand with the modern fighters of today.
Marvel Vs. Capcom 2--the marquee title of the collection--is just as good now as it was when it first launched 24 years ago thanks to its fast and frenetic three-on-three gameplay and massive 56-character roster. Mixing and matching with teams, trying to find big combos, and watching all three unleash a super move at the same time is still riveting and engaging. X-Men: Children Of The Atom, on the other hand, has a slower pace, only offers 10 characters, and follows a more traditional one-on-one, first-to-two-rounds format. Comparing two games that were released seven years apart could be considered unfair, as COTA is by no means a bad fighting game. However, it is the most “basic” fighter of the bunch, and the disparity between it and other games in the package makes COTA less enticing than the rest.
The rest of the games included here don't have enough to knock MvC2 off of the marquee, but they offer plenty of fun in their own right. Marvel Super Heroes's Infinity Stone mechanic offers an interesting wrinkle to the one-on-one format by powering up attacks, slowly healing damage, or adding projectiles to every basic punch and kick. X-Men Vs. Street Fighter serves as the foundation for Capcom's approach to tag-based fighters, even if the roster is smaller than the others in the collection.
Marvel Super Heroes Vs. Street Fighter and the original Marvel Vs. Capcom, meanwhile, each offer something even MvC2 can't deliver on: secret fighters. Both games have extra selections hidden on their character select screens--as does X-Men Vs. Street Fighter, but it's Akuma, who appears in other games--and both offer fighters that don't appear elsewhere.
MSHvSF adds Shadow, U.S. Agent, and Mephisto--alternate takes on Charlie Nash, Captain America, and Blackheart respectively--among others, while MvC introduces Roll to the series, while also offering superpowered takes on Venom, War Machine, Hulk, and more. These characters are admittedly game-breaking, and they don't supplant the MvC2 experience, but they give both of these games something worthy of booting them up once in a while.
One noticeable outlier is The Punisher, the aforementioned side-scrolling brawler from 1993. More Final Fight than Street Fighter, this is a fun albeit short beat-'em-up that serves as the first game ever made in the Marvel/Capcom partnership. It's got some weirdly over-the-top violence mixed in--the fate of the first boss is specifically jarring--but the brawling is fun enough, either alone or with a friend via co-op. Other than being a nice piece of history, however, it doesn't add much to the collection.
The modern perks each of these games receive are mostly blessings, but a few small annoyances have surfaced along the way. The quick-save feature from other Capcom collections returns, allowing you to retain your progress in an instant, but the problem here is huge: There's only one quick-save slot for all seven games in the collection.
Any deep run in a single game is jeopardized if you decide to play a different game the next time we boot the collection up, instead of each game having its own individual quick-save slot, which makes a helpful modern tool turn into a major annoyance when having to choose between games when quick-saving. A showdown with The Punisher's final boss should not be forced to be erased when a MvC run progresses all the way to Onslaught because of a baffling limitation like this.
The best modern addition, without question, is rollback netcode in all seven games. The advent of rollback has supercharged the entire fighting-game genre, and this MvC Collection benefits from the improved online capabilities. The majority of matches played online were smooth, with little to no noticeable hiccups. Granted, this was during a review period without a full consumer fanbase trying to log in, so a grain of salt should be taken. Nonetheless, online matches felt as if my opponent were sitting next to me.
The rest of the collection's extra features are a trip down memory lane via the Museum, which offer both a gallery of concept art and design documents for each game and a jukebox for listening to each game's full soundtrack. There are some interesting nuggets of information in there for diehard MvC fans--like how the Japanese marquee card for X-Men: Children Of The Atom featured Cyclops and other heroes, while the US version has them all turned into silhouettes. Nothing is added to the core gameplay with these features, obviously, but the history lesson is appreciated all the same.
Before this collection, it had been nearly 12 years to the day since any of these games had seen an official release: the Marvel Vs. Capcom Origins bundle on September 25, 2012. Days, months, and years passed--along with a new release in the franchise that drew an infinite amount of ire, pardon the pun--with fans not knowing when these games would be freed from their seemingly endless stasis. Now, Marvel Vs. Capcom Fighting Collection has opened the floodgates with aplomb, grouping them all into a package worthy of the modern era. There are some issues, and some of these games don't hold up quite as well as others, but the fact that they're all here is a terrific act of preservation worthy of praise.
Whether you liked these games originally or are just playing them now, Marvel Vs. Capcom Fighting Collection is a great place to experience them. Put another way, it's going to take you for a ride.
Like its past several installments, NBA 2K25 is the best sports game I've played this year, but it still comes with a bolded, can't-miss asterisk. This year's basketball sim from Visual Concepts represents the latest in a series that has been lapping the competition in the sports genre--a group of games each seeking to be your live-service obsession. None justify their time commitment as well as NBA 2K25, which is in a league of its own--for presentation, gameplay, and overall immersion first and foremost--but the whole is actually less than the sum of its parts due to long-embedded pay-to-win tactics I fear will never be undone.
This year's biggest changes involve a new dribbling physics system that gives ball-control a more realistic feel. The impact of this is hard to explain but easy to recognize when you're playing it, aided by enhancements to the game's ProPlay animation system that converts real-life game footage to in-game mechanics. Virtually everyone has, at one point in their lives, played basketball, even if it's just shooting baskets at the park or a friend's house. You know what it feels like to maintain ball control and dribble, keeping it away from other players and feeling the weight of the ball as you learn to control it without needing to observe yourself doing so. NBA 2K25 captures that authentically, adding additional support to an already-excellent gameplay foundation that goes back years.
Unlike some other series that dispose of ideas if they don't work after a few years, NBA 2K has always seemed more committed to iteration, tweaking unwelcome features until they become enjoyable ones, and turning good aspects into great ones. Year two of the ProPlay system expresses this attribute. 2K24's foundational overhaul is made more nuanced with numerous new animations, many of them built to mimic a player's real-life play style. Basketball is a sport composed of many individuals who approach the sport in different ways, such that no two hoopers play exactly alike. NBA 2K25 better replicates that player specificity with more unique jumpshots, signature moves, and even post-score celebrations that are pulled from real life.
Last year, the community was up in arms about the game's "green-or-miss" shooting mechanics. This meant players would need to time their shots perfectly (landing in the green zone in their shot meter) or else they'd miss the attempt. This year, the Visual Concepts team has addressed that feedback by offering two divergent shooting options. One of them uses the same green-or-miss mechanics of last year, which has a high-risk, high-reward outcome and relies on your own controller skills to overcome a strongly contested or off-balance shot. The latter is more forgiving of a less-than-perfect attempt, but is more beholden to things like positioning and defense. To borrow from Madden's terms, this is the "sim" option to the former's "competitive" option.
Effectively, this gives all players their choice of a retuned version of last year's system or what was in the game before 2K24. In either case, it's all made more manageable thanks to the game's incredible UI customization options and create-a-jumpshot suite. Combined, these features allow you to not only alter the look of your on-screen shot meter, tweaking its size, shape, colors, and placement, but also build your own jumper so you can find something with a timing pattern that works best for you.
On-court play runs very deep, and for new players it can be daunting. NBA 2K finally offers something it's lacked: a deep skills trainer that tutorializes the whole game. Learn 2K mode is designed for basketball novices, intermediate players, and even pro-level competitors needing a practice facility between games. It teaches basic fundamentals of the sport to more complex features with a wildly high skill ceiling, such as ball skills and fakeout moves--ankle breakers, essentially.
This new suite is only a good thing, as sports games tend to become impenetrable over time because they can assume most players are returning from past years, but each game is some number of players' first foray, so it's great to have this robust new game mode onboarding players who need it.
For many years now, no other sports game has captured the atmosphere of an authentic TV broadcast of its real-life sport quite like 2K. That continues in 2K25, and though there are perhaps no major bells and whistles debuting in the presentation side of things this year, it's also hard to fathom how it could improve much. It feels like the series has hit its ceiling in this respect, but it's a ceiling to be proud of, and no other sports game is nearly reaching its own.
Commentary is once again lifelike to a degree that keeps it at the very best in video games. It uses multiple commentary teams featuring loveable personalities like Kevin Harlan and also keeps all of its talent sounding realistic, delivering depth and a cadence that would fool you into thinking it's a real NBA game if you were only listening to it. Commentators recall past matchups accurately and discuss NBA history and rival showdowns yet to come, before inviting players to interact in post-game press conferences and answer questions from the media.
Timeouts oscillate from sideline playcalling huddles between coaches and players to the wide-ranging on-court entertainment, like mascots performing tricks or dance crews putting on stylish shows during would-be lulls. The atmosphere, score bug, crowd and commentator reactions--it's all incredible. It's been this impressive for a while now, but it never gets old.
Halftime shows remain hilarious and actually worth watching, and the hosts jump around the league to discuss other scores and highlights with a welcome blend of mirth and analysis. In between games in the career mode, an in-universe TV show--the likes of which is reliably cringeworthy in games like MLB The Show and Madden--is instead entertaining in NBA 2K25. I don't skip them. They're fully animated, voiced, and actually compelling, like one episode in which the hosts debate how to rank the league's dynasties throughout its history.
No other sports game is going to these lengths, and though other series' try to do some of these things, they are often not compelling enough to experience more than once or twice. In NBA 2K25, I don't touch the skip button. When I started a new season as the Celtics, I watched their championship-ring ceremony on opening night and marveled at how great the cutscene came together. NBA 2K25 looks, sounds, and feels like real life, and it makes me a bigger basketball fan because of these features.
Another now-annual expression of how this series laps the competition is its franchise-style mode, MyNBA. Two years ago, Visual Concepts introduced Eras, a trailblazing feature that lets you start a league in one of several different decades dating back 40+ years. Each era includes attire, rulebooks, playstyles, presentation, and rosters that authentically capture those various points in time. This was impressive out of the gate, and like last year, a new Era has been added in 2K25: the Steph Curry Era.
Like the Kobe Era did when it debuted last year, this adds a new gamified starting point in NBA history and seeks to tell the story of the period with things like more complicated player contracts and the new in-season tournament for the NBA Cup. While the bulk of this mode's exciting feature set was introduced two years ago, a new Era is a fine way to build it out further, though this particular Era has the least appeal of any so far as it's effectively present-day and less of an intriguing time capsule like the others.
NBA 2K has been expanding on its WNBA modes in recent years, and this year's suite is yet again its most robust yet--though it's still catching up to offering feature parity with the men's league. The WNBA is more popular than ever right now, owed partly to high-profile rookies like Caitlin Clark and Angel Reese, and the game mode reflects that with the same excellent presentation elements that sell the appropriate gravity of this new era of women's basketball. In The W, akin to the men's MyCareer mode, you can now participate in press conferences as your created athlete for the first time in the series, and you'll focus largely on chasing historical greatness with in-game elements that challenge you to outperform the aforementioned star rookies before eventually reaching the WNBA's GOAT status.
I enjoy this aspect for different reasons than the MyCareer version. In that case, it's more of an exploration of basketball history I largely already know. With the WNBA, it's a lot newer to me, so it's been fun to play the mode more like a history lesson. Commentators recall legends of decades past or more recent runs like Becky Hammon's back-to-back titles with Las Vegas. In press conferences, the media's questions help me infer additional context for a league that was in the background for so long, but as it's now coming into a brighter spotlight, 2K's offerings feel like they're built to match that next level of interest.
You sadly can't take your WNBA player into the game's social space, which I detail below, but it feels like the 2K team is making a genuine effort to expand on this suite of modes, and it amounts to about as much content as some other major sports games on the market. As it does in many other ways, the game's WNBA suite suggests many more resources or much greater use of its resources to create a game with this much cool stuff to play.
The game's main attraction comes in two different but closely linked features: MyPlayer and The City. MyPlayer is the avatar players create, choosing from one of several RPG-like builds or customizing their stats pip by pip across many categories like dunking, three-point shooting, vertical jumping, and lots more. You can put your own face on the character by using a mobile companion app, and that technology has become better over time to where I now use it every year and like how it turns out--this wasn't always the case.
With your MyPlayer, you can play their backstory, which takes you through high school, a FIBA World Cup game, and more before joining an NBA team in MyCareer, which is the single-player mode that focuses on your avatar's achievements. 2K25 builds on last year's GOAT list, in which players tried to pass Jordan and others to be recognized as the NBA's best player ever, to now build a dynasty that can surpass the likes of the Showtime Lakers, LeBron's Heat, and Curry's Warriors.
In other sports games, this solo story mode often feels like a barebones preamble to some other longer-term mode you're meant to move onto swiftly. But in 2K25, this isn't the case. Though there is a separate element the game wants to funnel you into, it's also built out a lot to make playing multiple seasons in the NBA very enjoyable in its own right. Chasing NBA history is tough, and the game makes your championships and accolades feel well-recognized, with a social feed, media reactions, and live-action messages from other athletes sliding into your DMs to congratulate you. The mode successfully captures the magnitude of moments, owing to the aforementioned best-in-class presentation.
Before, during, or after your NBA career, you can also take your player into The City, a sports-MMO social space with live-service elements like daily and weekly challenges, a huge variety of game modes, and plenty of shopping opportunities. The City is where I'll spend most of my time post-review sessions every September, because it's the central hub of the game's massive community and the activities in it are usually enjoyable. However, its daily and weekly challenge system asks too much of my time and prevents me from ever considering buying the battle pass since I know I'd have to give up some other games in my free time to hit all of NBA's live-service goals. In other live-service games in which I've invested my time, completing my dailies tends to take 15-45 minutes by design. NBA 2K25's orders are more time-consuming, to an extent that I sooner write off trying to keep up at all.
Games of different sizes and with varying, sometimes arcade-y rules, can be found all over in different parts of the city. You can take on challenging CPU boss battles against NBA legends, jump into 3v3 pick-up games with random players, train at the gym to improve your player's stats and gameplay-altering badges, or enter into ultra-sweaty Pro-Am games with a dedicated squad of teammates seeking to be recognized at the game's best players.
As a play space, The City rules. Every other sports game looks worse in comparison each subsequent year they fail to offer something similar. A vibrant social scene is the lifeblood of a live-service game, and NBA 2K remains the only annual sports game offering such an awesome virtual hangout space to its players.
In years past, I've enjoyed The City but lamented its pop-up ad aesthetic; it looked like a shopping mall from hell, with billboards and branded content in every direction you could look. This year's game cleverly fixes this problem, if only incidentally, by reimagining The City as a beach boardwalk setting. I find malls fundamentally unappealing, but a beach boardwalk is much more palatable as a place where I'd expect to find several stores, so I no longer mind a few ever-present blocks of shoe, clothing, tattoo, and backpack stores. Simply by the game presenting it differently, I don't feel bombarded with ads to spend my virtual currency, even though just as many options remain there.
Having said all that praise, The City being the game's prime attraction also reveals its one major flaw: a pay-to-win economy. Because the same currency used to buy cosmetics for your custom player can also be used to make that custom athlete much better on the court--from a player rated 60 overall all the way up to 99 for those willing to buy that much virtual currency--the game's coolest unique feature is also hamstrung for reasons that aren't mysterious and yet remain mystifying in their brazenness. Over many years, NBA 2K has nurtured a community that eagerly opts into spending a lot of extra money on day one so they can stay afloat in the social scene, and each year this approach returns, it harms the otherwise fantastic game's overall appeal.
Because I've been writing about the way NBA 2K wages war against itself for a few years now in my reviews, I've actually stepped out of the review to write a companion piece this year, in which I go to greater lengths to discuss the game's microtransaction--more accurately a macrotransaction--problem. This is an issue that's been seen in this game's annual installments for many years now, and in NBA 2K25, things have not noticeably improved--though you can now more easily matchmake with more casual players and build squads of others with in-game avatars similar to yours in rating.
These address some symptoms of the game's economic woes, but they don't fix enough despite an obvious cure being available: prevent players from buying stat upgrades. That route surely loses the publisher an unfathomable amount of money, so I worry we'll never see it come to fruition. You can read my extensive thoughts on that at the link above, but it's safe to say that this serves as a blemish on NBA 2K25's otherwise excellent gameplay experience.
NBA 2K is a peculiar game to critique for this perennial reason; like a social media label for a messy relationship, it's complicated. Suffice it to say the thoughts I've expressed in that companion piece weigh on my conclusion here, and you should consider this a two-part review, in a sense. 2K25's greatest flaw is obvious: Its economic designs make the game worse, and it's impossible for anyone without a Randian "greed is good" worldview to justify it.
At the same time, everything else it does is so impressive, both as a basketball sim and when stacked next to any other sports game, that it's a delicate balance to find with words. It does so much so well, and much of it is done uniquely. But its refusal to decouple its marquee features from its virtual currency keeps this championship contender from reaching its full potential.
Supermassive and Behaviour have each been instrumental in defining the genre over the past decade. The former's horror games have come as cinematic choose-your-own-adventure stories where the fates of multiple playable characters come down to your choices, often made in high-stress situations. Meanwhile, the latter blazed a trail now well-trodden: asymmetric multiplayer horror. Dead By Daylight's (DBD) Fortnite-like approach of swallowing up many major horror icons into one space has given it not just staying power, but a twisted Disneyland vibe. Now, with The Casting of Frank Stone, the pair combine forces to tell a Dead By Daylight origin story that will appeal most to fans of the PvP game, though I can say, as a casual DBD fan, I found it enjoyable on its own merits too, despite its issues.
Frank Stone plays much like Supermassive's run of games that began with 2015's Until Dawn. It is a gameplay-light, movie-like experience that you get to direct, in a sense. You'll control several characters, form their relationships with others in the story, and, most excitingly, try to keep them alive through a story full of quick-time events (QTEs) and doomed choices that can get them killed off permanently.
For me, this formula hasn't outstayed its welcome yet, and I'm not sure it ever will. It feels like the kind of game I would happily play each autumn for the rest of my life, even as the narrative merits vary by game. Historically, I've found that no Supermassive script truly stands up to scrutiny, and Frank Stone is no different in that regard. Because of the branching paths, sometimes you may see a scene that feels a bit off, like it better suits a choice I didn't make and never saw.
That's a jarring and commonplace flaw of horror games like Frank Stone, The Quarry, and The Dark Pictures Anthology. If they were strictly movies, I'd certainly be harsher on them. However, the interactive elements that make Frank Stone a cinematic game rather than a traditional movie help overshadow some of its flaws. Living in these scary stories is fun. Knowing I can and will drastically affect the outcome at numerous points throughout the game kept me glued to this game like its predecessors. Frank Stone isn't my favorite of them, but as Supermassive continues to chase the high of Until Dawn, I welcome the team's annual attempts to rebottle that magic with projects like this one.
When I got one of my main characters killed early on in Frank Stone, it was shocking, but in a good way. I want there to be stakes, and even when Frank Stone didn't always mesh its story beats together as cohesively as I wish it would've, I remained invested because my fingerprints still seemed to be all over the plot. Characters' relationships were altered on my watch, and I even pulled a couple back from breaking up (only to swiftly get one of them cut in half--oops).
Outside of QTEs that abide by your difficulty settings--pro tip: play on Hard for the most chaotic outcomes--gameplay consists of many dialogue options, almost always binary unless you unlock additional things to say by exploring the world and gathering collectibles with lots of backstories tied to them. This makes scanning nearby tables and corners for book covers, documents, and other hidden items a valuable use of your time, though it does once again reveal a very video-gamey problem for these projects chasing Hollywood pacing; in movies, the protagonist doesn't run along the walls seeking out Easter eggs before they get on with their mission. But like some narrative disconnects, I find these concessions acceptable enough when the enjoyment of living out these dark tales is doing most of the heavy lifting anyway.
Supermassive also built a new combat-light mechanic into Frank Stone. Combat is uncommon in its library of titles and it should perhaps stay that way, as the shallow feature ends up not being compelling. Players are meant to point an object at the titular monster to keep him at bay throughout the story, but it's always so easy that it becomes boring almost immediately.
What's worse in Frank Stone, and it's something of a legacy issue itself, is the frequent technical issues . It's a good-looking game but it stutters a lot when transitioning between scenes. Not all of them, but too many. This pulls me out of the experience more than some loose narrative threads do. I'm not sure what can be done to fix this, but it's a problem that's been in other Supermassive games like this, even though this is build on a newer version of Unreal Engine.
The problem is too apparent to have gone unseen, which suggests the team saw it and sent it out anyway. I've found I care about occasional bugs less than most, but when a game's primary appeal is its cinematic quality, these kinds of visual flaws weigh more heavily.
In story terms, Frank Stone is, like its source material, a mash-up of different genres. It opens like a slasher, quickly descends into supernatural territory, and even throws in some body horror before the end credits. I loved the design of Frank Stone himself, and if you think his first appearance is aesthetically underwhelming, just wait, he has more to unveil in time. Both he and the game's playable characters look like they belong in the DBD world, and I found that indicative of how the two teams closely collaborated to stay true to the source.
Being set in Behaviour's horror universe affords the game all of the narrative leeway that comes with that setting. For those well-versed with that lore, what this means may already be known to you. For the uninitiated, learning about some of the game's reveals in the second half of its six- to eight-hour story is best left for you to discover on your own. In either case, Frank Stone's story is enjoyable.
It helps to know the DBD universe, and the more intimately you know it, the more you'll get out of its countless secrets and nods to the multiplayer game. This game's main purpose is to reveal the story behind DBD's Big Bad, The Entity, and the game's climax will be most thrilling for players who care to see the answers to the questions they've had on that subject for years. But even players coming to this as Supermassive devotees or merely horror fans looking for something new can play it as a fun gorefest. Its DBD ties don't lock anyone out of the experience; they only open a few extra windows for players coming over from Behaviour's world. There are several nods that I found clever enough to laugh out loud. These go beyond how the game's QTEs are redressed to look exactly like DBD's skill checks, though I find them to be so cool that I don't want to say any more than that.
After you beat the game once, you unlock a few welcome features if you're interested in seeing everything the game offers. This includes a collectible-finding mode that basically gives you Batman Arkham-like Detective Vision, as well as an ability to jump into any scene and play out alternate narrative pathways. These features could almost be called quality-of-life fixes given how they erase some of the grinding that would be required without them, and they're not the only new toys I hope become permanent in games like this. Frank Stone also uses a neat on-screen prompt to let you know when advancing past an area will make it inaccessible going forward. This removes any worry about cutting yourself off from an optional item or path prematurely. I hope all the team's future games do this, too.
By now, those who have played Supermassive's interactive horror "movies" since 2015 know what they're getting with The Casting of Frank Stone. If you only want to play the next great version of that formula, this isn't it. But for Dead By Daylight fans looking to fill out their lore bibles, prospective fans looking for an introduction to the multiplayer game, or horror obsessives who are ready to carve pumpkins and dive into a pile of crispy orange leaves, The Casting of Frank Stone is a flawed but fun horror romp just in time for spooky season, the likes of which Supermassive and I may be destined to experience together forever.
As I thrust my Chainsword into the chest of a Tyranid Warrior and split the vile Xenos in half, I can't help but be reminded of 2016's Doom. From a gameplay perspective, Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine 2 is nothing like id Software's demon-infested reboot--at best, any similarities between the two are merely superficial. But Space Marine 2 manages to capture a kindred vibe that prodded the part of my brain reserved for all things Doom: one that relishes in gory, balls-to-the-wall action and an unapologetic, almost old-school approach to game design that puts unadulterated fun above all else. It's a game that clearly understands how absurd, horrific, and over-the-top the whole franchise is. There are flaws, but Space Marine 2 improves upon its 13-year-old predecessor in every conceivable way, making you embody an Ultramarine as you stomp your way through a fully realized recreation of Warhammer 40,000's grimdark universe.
Set roughly 200 years after the events of the first game, Space Marine 2 straps you back into the gaudy power armor of protagonist Demetrian Titus. The erstwhile Captain has spent the past century as a Blackshield in an act of self-imposed penance, fighting among the ranks of the Deathwatch under the belief that he has disgraced his former chapter. When an Archmagos of the Adeptus Mechanicus calls for aid in defending the jungle planet of Kadaku from a Tyranid invasion, Titus is sent to the planet's defense, only to be mortally wounded by a ferocious Carnifex. After being rescued by the Ultramarines, Chapter Master Marneus Calgar has Titus undergo the Rubicon Primaris to save his life, making him faster, stronger, and smarter in the process. Once he emerges from his slumber, Titus intends to return to the Deathwatch but is convinced otherwise; if he truly yearns for redemption, he must rejoin the 2nd Company and help the Avengers of Ultramar repel the assailing Tyranids.
The setup propels Space Marine 2's action-packed story into motion as you plunge headfirst into the Fourth Tyrannic War. Titus' past immediately adds tension to the proceedings, with his new captain and squadmates wary of his reinstatement due to a checkered service record. This leads to some decent character-building and uneasy infighting, especially with the threat of Chaos lingering in the air. It's not long before the Thousand Sons Chaos Space Marines rear their ugly heads to throw a spanner in the works, but for the most part, Space Marine 2 tells a fairly standard war story amidst the backdrop of Warhammer 40,000's unmistakable world. It's cliched at times but remains engaging throughout. There's rarely a dull moment as you uncover long-dormant secrets and attempt to crush the Imperium's enemies beneath your hefty boots.
Many of the story beats are also an essential vehicle for getting to the game's brutal action. Much like its predecessor, combat in Space Marine 2 is a fusion of third-person shooting and hack-and-slash skirmishing. Ripping Tyranids and Chaos Space Marines to shreds is incredibly satisfying, and the savage close-quarters melee combat is more nuanced than it was in the first game. Switching between the two gameplay styles is fluid, too, although there is one sticking point: After playing the retro-inspired Warhammer 40,000: Boltgun last year, the Bolter and its variants don't feel quite as special or unique in Titus' hands. Space Marine 2's rendition of the series' iconic weapon is analogous to an assault rifle rather than the rapid-fire rocket launcher it was in Boltgun, so it doesn't quite scratch the same gratifying itch. That doesn't mean it isn't fun to pop skulls from range in Space Marine 2, but the Boltgun isn't as anomalous as it could be. I also wish there were slightly more weapon variety. Firearms like the Melta and Plasma Pistol offer a nice change of pace, but most of your arsenal consists of similar-feeling armaments.
Despite this, the way enemies explode--projecting crimson fountains of blood into the sky with each hit--still makes for some devilishly fun combat. The Ultramarines' bulky blue armor wasn't built for you to sit back at a distance, so you're constantly in the thick of the action, alternating between Bolt Pistols and the crackling energy of a Power Sword to thin the herd and eviscerate the more fearsome creatures among the Tyranid's ranks. "Quantity has a quality all its own" is an apt description of the Tyranid strategy. The smaller Hormagaunts may be weak on their lonesome, but they come in massive, writhing swarms that can quickly overwhelm the Imperium's forces. Developer Saber Interactive built Space Marine 2 on the same proprietary engine it used to create World War Z's zombie hordes, and the result is similarly impressive. It's an awe-inspiring sight to witness a thick throng of the xenos menace barreling toward you, clambering over each other to scale walls and overrun you with their pure strength in numbers.
A Chainsword can cleave through these compacted swarms, while ranged weapons are useful for depleting the herd's numbers before you're completely suffocated. The Hormagaunts are essentially a frontline nuisance, impeding your path to more dangerous enemies like Tyranid Warriors, Zoanthropes, and Lictors. These threats are best handled mano-e-mano, with parries, dodges, counters, and "gun strikes" (cinematic counters that deliver a devastating shot from your equipped firearm) all being crucial to surviving the onslaught. Each of these systems adds complexity and variety to Space Marine 2's melee combat, taking inspiration from modern melee-action games to make these close-range fights more active and engaging than the first game's fisticuffs. Parryable attacks flash with a blue circle, and responding in kind can instantly kill smaller enemies and interrupt bigger foes, leaving them wide open for a counter. Unblockable attacks, on the other hand, are indicated by a red circle, forcing you to either sidestep or roll out of the way of incoming danger. Achieving perfect timing on either a parry or dodge opens your opponent up to a gun strike, unleashing an explosive flourish that's endlessly rewarding.
Inflicting enough damage on an enemy leaves them vulnerable and exposed to an execution. These visceral killing blows consist of elaborate animations as you tear the limbs from Tyranid Warriors and rip the heads off of Chaos Marines. Aside from providing an audacious punctuation mark at the end of a frenzied skirmish, executions are also vital to the flow of combat due to how each one refills a portion of your armor. You have a few bars of armor which, once depleted, put you in danger of sustaining damage to a health bar that requires consumable stims to replenish--or by doing damage to an enemy immediately after taking damage yourself. The best defense is a good offense, so you're incentivized to target executions and stay in the very thick of the action by skewering Tyranids with their own talons. Running away or finding cover never feels particularly viable, so combat has a hectic intensity that's often thrilling.
There's also an element of strategy to most encounters, predominantly dictated by the variety of enemy types you'll face. The slippery Ravener can burrow underground and strike from below, forcing you to be ready on the dodge button before attacking quickly so it can't scurry back into the dirt. Meanwhile, the floating, psychic Zoanthropes can buff nearby creatures while peppering you with ranged Psychic attacks, necessitating that you break away from the immediate close-quarters fighting and deal with them from range. This ensures that combat is engaging throughout the roughly eight-hour-long campaign, even when your objectives rarely deviate from moving from point A to B. There are exceptions, like one section that sees you using a Flamer to keep swarms of Rippers at bay, but the emphasis is on all-out combat for the majority of the time.
Space Marine 2's level design is fairly linear, too. There are occasional moments where you can venture off the beaten path to find audio logs and supplies, but the route through each level is usually pretty straightforward. The thing is, it doesn't always feel like it. The sheer sense of scale and spectacle in each level makes them feel far grander than they actually are. Saber has done a tremendous job of making you feel like a small part of a much bigger war. Whether it's the intense battles raging in the background to the way clusters of Gargoyles blanket the sky, the world constantly feels alive, even as death occurs all around you, and this is further enriched by the game's world-building and environmental design.
From the planet-spanning metropolis of Avarax, where grandiose spires seem to soar into space, to the gothic interiors of the burial planet Demerium, and Kadaku's dense and oppressive forests, every frame of Space Marine 2 is lathered with attention to the smallest details. Cadians often kneel and talk in hushed whispers as you approach, the retro-futuristic Cogitators whirl to life aboard the Battle Barge, and you'll wander through the remnants of a recent battle as Commissars deliver punishment to soldiers found guilty of cowardice. I don't think I'm going out on a limb when I say Space Marine 2 is the most authentic Warhammer 40,000 game ever. It ran superbly on my PC as well, with nary a frame-rate dip on Ultra settings.
The feeling of being a single cog in the machine also ties in with Space Marine 2's PvE Operations mode. Throughout the campaign, Titus will issue orders to a secondary squad of Ultramarines, with their missions happening concurrently with Titus'. Operations mode currently consists of six of these missions (with more set to arrive in future updates), and this interconnected setup helps to make each one feel narratively important. The first sortie you embark on, for instance, takes place early in the main campaign, when Titus needs the other squad to block the Tyranid advance long enough for him to complete his own objective. Your customizable Astartes sets down a few miles north with the aim of detonating a promethium refinery and incinerating a massive horde of the Xenos, buying Titus enough time to get in and out before being completely overwhelmed. The objectives in these missions don't change from one replay to the next, but much like World War Z, the AI director will change up the enemies and their numbers in response to your class and playstyle.
There are six unique classes in total, ranging from a Sniper to the jump-pack-equipped Assault class. Each one has access to a specific assortment of weapons, perks, and abilities. I mostly stuck with the Vanguard, which uses a grapnel launcher to latch on to enemies and propel you toward them. Other classes have abilities that can aid your teammates in battle, such as the sword-and-shield-wielding Bulwark, which can stick a chapter banner in the floor to restore armor to any squad members nearby.
You can play both the campaign and Operations mode with up to two other players, but the variety of classes ensures that Operations is a much more engaging co-op experience. When either mode is played solo, the bots you're saddled with aren't too shabby. They can hold their own and rack up kills, and they'll deploy their class abilities when they can. Space Marine 2 is obviously a better game with friends, but it's not a steadfast requirement.
One of the other benefits of playing with friends is the unique fashion on display. Each class is cosmetically customizable, with myriad armor pieces and paint jobs to unlock and equip. Some of these are unlocked by achieving a new rank, while others can be purchased with the coins you earn from completing missions. It's cool that you can turn your Space Marine into an Omega Marine, Black Templar, or your own colorful abomination, but the rate at which you earn some of the customization options is painfully slow. The main issue is that the coins you use to purchase emblems and paint jobs are also required to unlock class and weapon perks, forcing you to weigh up whether you want that Imperial Fist emblem more than a firepower and accuracy upgrade for your Bolt Carbine. It feels like the method for unlocking both should be separate.
Fortunately, these cosmetics do at least carry over to Space Marine 2's third and final mode, Eternal War. This competitive PvP mode is refreshing in its simplicity, pitting six Space Marines against six Chaos Marines across three game modes and a handful of maps. Annihilation is your typical team deathmatch, Seize Ground is King of the Hill in all but name, and Capture and Control is your standard zone control mode. What it lacks in new ideas, Eternal War makes up for with the way its classes synergize and clash against one another. This begins with how classes are restricted, limiting you to two of each class per team. This might sound negatively prohibitive, but it provides balance and prevents six Heavies from going up against six Heavies.
With a Heavy Bolter, three bars of armor, and a class perk that gives them a temporary shield, the Heavy class initially appears to be the top dog. That is until you start experimenting with the other five classes. The Bulwark can use its shield to charge at a Heavy and close the distance to where the Heavy's lack of melee options hinders it. But then, how do you deal with a Bulwark? The Vanguard and its grapnel launcher are an option, as latching onto an enemy stuns them for a moment, negating the Bulwark's shield as you go to work with the Combat Knife. Alternatively, the Jump Pack-equipped Assault class can more than hold its own, falling out of the sky like a comet before laying waste with the Thunder Hammer.
Getting accustomed to each class's strengths and weaknesses takes time, especially when you also need to adjust to how different Eternal War feels compared to the rest of the game. First off, the time-to-kill is significantly shorter, disregarding the power fantasy of being a towering super soldier in favor of quicker skirmishes. You really need to take your vulnerability into account, as teams that stick together can easily steamroll those with players who venture off on their own. Secondly, there's much more of a focus on ranged combat. Melee combat--and its ability to ignore armor--is a high-risk, high-reward alternative. Being able to bypass armor is appealing, but you're probably putting yourself in the very thick of things by getting in range, so you need to weigh up when busting out the Chainsword is worth it.
Eternal War isn't without its faults, however. The maps are bland, boxy arenas with little deviation in level design from one to the next. They lack the scale and spectacle of the campaign, opting instead for environments with no discernible features. The inclusion of Chaos Marines is also a misstep at launch due to the absence of cosmetics. It's disappointing to create your own squad of customized Space Marines only to be saddled with the default forces of Chaos for multiple games in a row. Although, I also encountered a bug where my cosmetic changes would randomly reset, so there are issues on both sides.
Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine 2 is a more-than-worthy successor to the 2011 original. Its brutally gory action is as riveting as ever, but it's also more considered and tactile, making for a much more satisfying experience. There's not a lot going on outside of combat, and it's overly linear at times, but these flaws are easy to forget when you're charging headfirst into battle against an enemy numbering in the hundreds, furiously fighting against a stunning backdrop that brings the tabletop game to life in all its grimdark splendor. Space Marine 2 will deeply resonate with Warhammer 40,000 fans, yet it also has enough about it to thrill those who can't tell their Horus Heresy from their Macharian Crusade. The wait might've been long, but it was well worth it.
Konami is trying to figure out how to make Silent Hill games again. After more than a decade away from the series (and arguably many more years since a good one), multiple new Silent Hill projects have recently debuted or soon shall. Silent Hill devotees like me often wonder whether the publisher can recapture the magic of the series' early games. But even if it can't, at least we have Hollowbody. Made by a single person, Hollowbody sometimes goes too far past being a homage, but most of the time, it stands apart as a memorable entry in the crowded space of horror games drumming up the past.
This year, Hollowbody is the closest thing you'll find to Silent Hill 2 that isn't Bloober Team's forthcoming remake. Its solo developer, Nathan Hamley (working under the studio name Headware Games), admits his love for the series is the driving force in creating Hollowbody, and there are times when that adoration is even too obvious. Everything from how you explore its world and unlock new pathways by solving tricky puzzles to how you fight enemies and even unlock multiple endings all feel pulled from the PS2 classic. An early section of the third-person survival-horror game takes place in corridors that are so similar to Silent Hill 2's hospital section that it gave me deja vu, and the monsters that stalk just beyond the reach of your flashlight stumble into attacking you like that game's iconic nurses.
There are even a few moments in which you come upon threateningly deep, dark holes that you drop into without knowing what's on the other side. One corridor, in particular, prompted me to ask myself the same question that Silent Hill 2's absurdly long stairwell previously prompted: "How long is this thing?" The callbacks border on copies at times, but Hollowbody doesn't settle for being merely a clone of the developer's favorite game--though it is fascinating to see how one person in 2024 can make something very much like a game that required a much larger team just a few decades ago.
Within its mission statement of making a game much like SH2, it's the things Hollowbody does differently that made me more eager to play it than the many other games like it. I'm not typically nostalgic for games that play and look poorer than modern games tend to, but Hawley captures the essence of that era so well without clinging to the period's worst aspects. Tank controls, for example, are in the game, but they aren't in use by default. Masochists will need to toggle them on. Similarly, you do save periodically--at a landline phone rather than a bright red book, mind you--but there are a few autosaves in the game, too, usually before a tougher section.
These modern conveniences do well to reduce frustrations that some similarly minded studios misidentify as valuable, though the legacy pain-point of running along walls, couches, beds, and cabinets seeking interaction points remains, so Hollowbody doesn't reject every questionable design quirk of its genre. On more than one occasion, I had to retread some areas several times before finding an item I needed to progress, which pulled me out of an otherwise moody scene.
Combat in Hollowbody is very similar to the games that inspired it. That means it's best to avoid it or use melee weapons if you can, thus saving ammo. Whatever means of defense to which you resort, you'll often be navigating tight spaces, which make it challenging to flee even after you've made up your mind. The game uses a reliable auto-aim system with a green reticle that you can shift from enemy to enemy with ease.
This makes staying alive easier than if you had to rely on guesswork, like some early-2000s horror games asked players to do. I was relieved to find that, despite this helpful mechanic, combat still elicited a welcome sense of dread, partly because the audiovisual cue when you take damage is so jarring that it felt almost like monsters were jumping off the screen in a sense. Enemies close the distance deceptively quickly, and the game's various melee weapons offer different animations, making them unequal in their reach, attack speed, and effectiveness--I recommend you stick with the guitar.
The game's atmosphere is its best attribute, with a familiar low hum persisting through most of the story that consistently unnerved me during the four-hour experience. Like great horror developers who have come before, Hamley understands when to lean into the game's creepy, somber music, and when to let the silence commandeer a scene. Each frame of the game captures the spirit of PS2-era horror games so faithfully that if you knew nothing about the game, you might assume it's actually from 2001.
Because the game is shorter than most of those it strives to resemble, some of the genre's staples are expedited in a way. Puzzles, for example, can be tricky, but never as maddening as Silent Hill 2's piano puzzle, and often the space and time between finding a puzzle-cracking item and putting it to use is small and short. I actually had to get used to how the pause menu's map would show me the way forward because I sometimes expected more roadblocks, even as an arrow would essentially tell me, "Go here!" It wasn't until the back half of the game that I started to trust that the map truly was just pointing me toward the next section, and even when there would be puzzles along the way to unlock that path, all interactable doors were similarly spotlighted on the map.
Like the best Silent Hill games, Hollowbody isn't just scary; it's tragic, and the world you're exploring reminds you of that in every corner. Though even its narrative thread weaves a similar tale--you're seeking a lost loved one in an eerie town--the thematic elements help Hollowbody rise above facsimile in a manner that its darkened hallways and aggressive monsters sometimes don't allow. The story is actually set in the future, but the town you explore was abandoned years prior following an apparent bioterror attack. This means you leave a cyberpunk world early on and soon enter a dreary British town hamstrung not just by an attack decades before, but also due to gentrification and abandonment years before that.
Documents scattered across town tell a background plot of townspeople promised an economic stimulus, only to have the rug pulled out from under them in the months and years to come by double-speaking investors. It's a familiar tale, but not owing to Silent Hill in this case. Instead, it's pulled from the headlines of the real world, and I appreciate the way Hamley is able to creatively tie an abandoned, monster-infested town to the theme of economic inequality.
Hollowbody is scary, dreary, and sad; it's all the things I love about horror games. Sometimes, it embodies these feelings because it nearly repurposes the same monsters, places, and predicaments from the games that inspired it. But it's not all familiar, and the things it does differently are its best attributes, like telling a story conscious of and concerned about sociopolitics and offering a minimalistic but unsettling soundtrack of its own. Maybe the last great Silent Hill game is behind us. I don't know. But I do know its memory remains alive in successes like Hollowbody.
For multiple console life cycles, PlayStation has fostered a brand built on gritty anti-heroes, fantastical worlds at conflict with themselves, and a trope colloquially referred to as "sad dads." I like most of those games and find the praise they receive in many cases to be well-earned, but Astro Bot is a reminder of another side to the PlayStation DNA. Not only does it feel like a revitalization of an important part of the brand, but it also feels like a spotlight shifting to a character who has been lurking in the background, previously unable to see over the hulking Kratos, the war-ready Aloy, or the tortured Joel. Team Asobi's Astro Bot quickly, consistently, and joyously launches its titular hero into the pantheon of all-time greats, both in its first-party family and genre, with a platformer whose incredible ambition is matched by its brilliant execution.
Stranded in space following an attack from a googly-eyed alien, Astro's mission is to repair their ship and rescue all 300 pals scattered across five main clusters of planets, each composed of individual levels. Naturally, the story is not the focus here, and yet I was so immersed in the 15-hour game that I beat it in two long sittings. It may be 2024's most immersive game, and it achieves that without a line of dialogue. Instead, each level tells a story, clear as day, about where you ought to go next and what you should do there.
There is both depth and breadth to most levels, and frequent checkpoints mean you'll rarely be punished for exploration or missing a jump. Levels take only five to 10 minutes in most cases, but are overflowing with personality. Robot animals climb trees along the periphery or jump out of the ocean far beneath the levitating worlds you explore. Everything constantly moves around you, imbuing every level with life beyond the scraps you'll engage in with the game's enemies. Each level's theme is brought to life with aesthetic assets and design ideas that strengthen their themes. During a Japan-themed level in which Astro can soak up water to become something like a giant squishy kaiju, you'll simply plow over enemies the robot would otherwise need to be wary of, topple bamboo walls as the ground shakes around you, and soak in hot springs, all while string music evokes the country's signature sounds.
In another that sees Astro shrink to the size of a mouse, the miniature world reveals new woodsy and backyard-like scenery that regular-sized Astro couldn't reach. Because of the game's Smash Bros-like manner of bringing in dozens of familiar faces, some levels purposely evoke multiple games at once, like a desert level that is titled like and starts off like a Prince of Persia reference before ultimately ending with an ascent to a glorious mountaintop a la Journey. Some levels even drastically change the art style, as seen in a series of voxel-art levels I was glad to discover each time, or some others I dare not spoil.
Numerous dazzling aesthetics in Astro Bot are somehow only used once or very little, like a casino level with bright multicolored lights and betting chips floating through the sky, or a level meant to look like a child-friendly haunted graveyard and nearby castle, which is among my favorites in the whole game but--again--somehow is featured just once. These assets surely take many human hours to make, and again, Astro Bot presents them with the confidence to wordlessly suggest, "Yeah, we know these rule, but look what else we have for you," before the next level wipes the slate and starts anew with yet another never-before-seen aesthetic. I haven't seen a platformer marathon through so many varied, whimsical, and blatantly cool ideas like this before.
My favorite aspect of the game is how it seems to read my mind. Every time I'd divert off the main path in search of a secret or reward, I would find one. Team Asobi understands its level-design concepts so well that it can reliably predict where and when players will get sidetracked, and it ensures there's always something waiting there for them, like a surprise gift in the mail whose sender can't wait to learn it's arrived. "Can I climb this crane?" I'd wonder to myself. Yes, I can, and for scaling it to the very top I'd find coins to spend on cosmetics. "What if I peek over this ledge?" There's a hidden cave below, hiding another puzzle piece used to open shops in the game's hub world. Whenever I'd wonder if my intuition was leading me to something valuable, I'd find I was right.
In tandem with expert level design are the game's diverse and exciting mechanics. At the start of nearly every level, Astro jumps into a suit or straps on a backpack of some kind that gives them a new ability. In one level, it's spring-powered boxing gloves resembling cartoon frogs. In another, it's a robo-dog that gives the bipedal bot a wall-smashing rocket boost, or in another, a time-freezing tool that allows Astro to scale otherwise impossibly fast-moving sections. Across the game's dozens of levels, you'll see many abilities like these, and in nearly every case, they are a resounding success.
While some abilities are more fun than others, they nearly all work seamlessly. As Astro, you'll strap on the ability and intuitively understand it. You sense its limitations and use cases immediately, and though the game disposes of abilities at an uncommon pace, many will resurface later in a new setting or be used to defeat the game's fun bosses--including a final boss and credits sequence that will surely go down as one of 2024's best video game moments.
Even within a level, an ability is used in several different and creative ways, but always stemming from its singular mechanic featured in that level. It ramps up the platforming and combat sequences via an approachable but challenging incline and chains these little moments together in such a way that there's never a lull in any level. Whereas many platformers may drill down on a key feature or small set of features, Astro Bot displays confidence by often disposing of exciting new tools shortly after introducing them. It expresses iteration in cycles of five minutes each, rather than iterating on one idea for five or more hours, which I find both refreshing and bold. The only other game I've seen that's similarly willing to dispose of cool ideas like this is It Takes Two, and Astro Bot does it more often and with more enjoyable mechanics.
Like any excellent platformer, Astro Bot's movement feels responsive and trustworthy. Despite the game consistently giving you new ways to traverse its puzzling pathways, you'll almost always feel like you have a good grip on clearing gaps, timing attacks on enemies, and dodging bosses with expertise. The camera caused a few rare instances of what felt like selling me out, but the game's checkpoints are so numerous and the load times are virtually non-existent, such that this never became a pain point for me.
The only ability that doesn't work as cleanly as others is the one used in an underwater level. Meant to mimic a dolphin-like dive ability, the controls used for this one never feel as intuitive as those for other abilities. In this level, I found it unusually tricky, albeit not exactly difficult, to collect all the secrets. A few of them demanded a deft diving ability the backpack is meant to offer, but it doesn't have the same accuracy of other abilities in the game, which led me to whiff on some sections in a way that was unique to this level. It was manageable, but if any secret levels--which tend to be some of the game's hardest--also use this mechanic, I expect them to become some of the game's few frustrations.
In the few instances where the hero isn't wearing an ability, the game still finds ways to reinvent itself. A mid-game level that evokes the kid-friendly vibes of a preschool presents a clever day-and-night-switching mechanic that tosses the world on its side back and forth whenever you press a button, allowing Astro to solve puzzles and reach the end. But once that awesome level was finished, I never saw the mechanic used again. Astro Bot feels like it's showing off at times, but never in a way that pats itself on its back. It's ceaselessly cute and clever, and feels more like a little kid delighted to show you their toy collection than a braggart displaying their trophies.
Each galaxy you arrive in houses several secrets to uncover in the overworld, and even levels themselves have hidden bonus stages. This game's secrets have secrets, with more hidden levels being revealed at a steady clip whenever you inch closer to polishing off each galaxy's to-do list. The best of those secrets are the hidden bots themselves. There are 300 in total, though you only need 200 to face the final boss, and over half of them are dressed up as iconic characters from video game history. Many of these are first-party heroes, like Ellie and a Gran Turismo racer, but many others are cameos of characters from series closely tied to PlayStation's past, such as Tomb Raider, Persona, or even classic and contemporary indies like Journey, Stray, and Humanity.
Each bot you find returns to the (mostly) safe zone, the Crash Site, which acts like a hub world you can explore and decorate. Here, the game carries forward the same PlayStation Museum vibe seen in Astro's Playroom, albeit to a lesser extent. You won't explore past PlayStation consoles, but the mothership you're trying to repair is just a giant PS5, and the spaceship you use to explore the overworld is a DualSense controller with wings. It feels a bit like that meme of Obama awarding Obama a medal, but it's not distracting, so ultimately, it's fine.
Spending coins in the game's shop unlocks dioramas, ship paints, and costumes for Astro, even some based on unexpected series such as Bloodborne and Gravity Rush. The dioramas are especially fun, as they turn all your collected bots into animated statues, like one that shows Nathan Drake playing a game called Dude Raider on his couch. Even the most serious of characters are turned into caricatures, like a scene you can create in which The Last of Us' Joel goes to throw a brick, but it slips out of his hand and bonks him on the head. All of the 169 cameo bots fill in the would-be barren desert sands like a virtual shelf of Funko Pops.
Finding each of these characters is a constant highlight of Astro Bot. Some are placed right in front of you, but most require the aforementioned curiosity to pull you off the beaten path in search of the game's bountiful secrets. One of the best mechanics--which I very much hope becomes standard in the genre moving forward--is a robot bird companion who can join you in any level you decide to replay. The bird pings for collectibles and leads you right to the remaining bots, secret Void levels, and puzzle pieces you've not yet found. This makes playing the game to 100% completion a joy and never a grind. I've never cared about PlayStation Trophies before, but I expect to unlock them all in Astro Bot, if only incidentally because I want to see and do everything this game offers.
It seems odd to say I don't want to spoil a game that effectively has no story, but some of the game's best secrets really must be discovered with your own eyes. To talk around Astro Bot's most entertaining of these surprises, I'll mention that it will occasionally rethink its mechanics as a whole, nearly swapping genres at times, in ways that pay homage to PlayStation's illustrious past. These special levels arrive toward the end of each galaxy's main mission path and bestow to you a bundle of themed bots as well as yet another cool new mechanic not to be seen ever again in the game. Its soundtrack--already an array of bubbly earworms--reimagines familiar overtures from other games. In doing all of this for these most-special one-offs, the promise of its world comes into full view. Astro Bot swarms the player with bright ideas, sparking almost endless joy.
Astro Bot is also meant to be a DualSense showcase, and it certainly does a lot there, though I continue to feel like the controller's most passionate fans are within the company itself. I don't mind the DualSense, but I don't feel like much would be lost if I played the game without features like secondary noises coming out of my controller, blowing air into it to propel a fan, or using the gyroscopic motion controls to physically repair the ship each time I finished a galaxy and found another elusive ship part.
Its best attribute, a rumble feature more nuanced than what other controllers provide, is also simpler than all of the DualSense's high-end abilities that sometimes come off as gimmicky. Astro Bot also did away with some of them from Astro's Playroom, such as using the center touchpad to unzip some blockades. Instead, this is done with the joystick, suggesting Team Asobi found it best to keep players' hands off the somewhat clunky touchpad this time around.
Beyond the underwater level that doesn't shine the way others do, my only other frustrations with Astro Bot come in the form of some of the game's hardest levels, which will likely be too difficult for younger or less-experienced players. Normally, these levels are as brief as 30 seconds, but they require perfection and give the game a taste of trial-and-error it otherwise consciously rejects.
I understand the game is split into tiers, allowing most anyone to be able to beat the base game before the diehards go the extra mile, but since several cameo characters are locked behind these ultra-hard mini-levels, it's a bit of a letdown that some of the game's younger fans may likely never find all of the must-have bots to bring back to their hub world. In this way, Astro Bot gates a small but not insignificant portion of its best material behind a skill check that some of its audience won't pass.
The game also crashed on me twice, both times erasing more progress than I'd have expected since I assumed it auto-saves after each level, but I'd lost about three or four levels of progress in both instances. However, I admit these crashes came at the end of my long 11-hour session with the game on my first day with it, so maybe it was an issue Team Asobi will address. Still, the hard crash backpedaling on my saved data was strange and somewhat soured what was a marathon of smiles for about 10 hours of that day.
The simply titled Astro Bot is meant to be the cute robot's first significant foray into video games following a 2018 VR exclusive that earned praise but was stuck in its headset-only bubble, and a 2020 pack-in tech demo that hinted at more to come. The beauty of the game, as suggested by its title, is that even players returning for their third Astro adventure will find hours upon hours of new experiences, collectively and magnificently presented as a parade of joyous sights, sounds, and adventures. This is a grand re-opening for Astro Bot, and it surely marks the start of what is destined to be a beloved series shooting for the moon.
World of Warcraft: The War Within makes a hell of a first impression. Within the expansion's first 10 minutes, one of the Warcraft universe's greatest heroes, the archmage Khadgar, is seemingly vaporized. Moments later, one of WoW's most iconic cities, Dalaran, is obliterated. You wake up amidst the wreckage, search for survivors, fend off attacks from the spider-like Nerubians, and then set out on a journey deeper and deeper into Azeroth's depths to find the one responsible for the carnage--WoW's new big bad, Xal'atath.
It's a bold opening for the 10th expansion in WoW's two-decade history--one that almost reads as a signal to past and present WoW players that Blizzard is looking to up the narrative stakes as it moves forward. The War Within kicks off what is billed as the first part of a three-expansion storyline called the Worldsoul Saga, which will look to bring together many of the game's core plotlines from over the years, as the MMO nears its 20th anniversary.
It's only fitting then that The War Within builds brilliantly on what came before, not only from a story perspective but also in continuing many of the trends and design philosophies that helped make the game's previous expansion, Dragonflight, the course-correction WoW desperately needed. The War Within realizes many of those ideas to something close to their full potential, giving the expansion a "been there, done that" feel at first that quickly subsides once it becomes clear just how dramatically those ideas, whether it's account-wide progression or the ability to do endgame content entirely solo, change the way Blizzard's MMORPG is played. While not every new feature is a home run, namely Hero Talents, The War Within is otherwise laser-focused in its execution of letting players play WoW the way they want to, and in that it overwhelmingly succeeds.
World Of Warbands
That's no small feat. Like in Dragonflight, Blizzard opted to forgo one-off expansion features this time around and instead focus on recurring ones that will be WoW staples for the foreseeable future. The biggest this time around is Warbands, a bit of a catch-all feature that encompasses and fully fleshes out many of the baby-step account-wide progression features Blizzard previously rolled out, both in Dragonflight and in expansions prior. Now, nearly everything is shared across a player's account rather than limited to a specific character. Items, some gear, and currencies can easily be transferred between characters on the same account. Renown and reputation gains, long one of the most frustrating parts of making and progressing a new character, are now shared across all characters on an account. Many aspects of the game that were already somewhat account-wide, like achievements and a player's transmog collection, have been expanded even further here, with players now able to earn weapon and armor appearances regardless of if their current character can use those items.
It's hard to overstate how much of a game-changer this is. For the first time in my long history of playing WoW, I began to level up an alternate character immediately after completing the story campaign on my main. While playing my alt, quests already completed by my main can be conveniently hidden on the map, letting me better hone in on other side quests I skipped initially. All of the achievement progress, quest-reward gear appearances, upgrade currencies, and Renown earned from doing these side quests are account-wide, meaning that even though I'm leveling a completely different character, my main character is still benefiting. Even if it feels long overdue, now that it's finally here, it's hard to fathom how WoW players endured 20 years of character-locked progression.
Journey To The Center Of Azeroth
The changes Warbands bring make just about any progress meaningful progress. That progress, in turn, makes seeking out all of the sights and sounds of The War Within's new Khaz Algar region even more rewarding than it would be otherwise. Home of the new playable race, the Earthen, Khaz Algar is a series of four zones. The one players find themselves in following Dalaran's destruction, the Isle of Dorn, is on Azeroth's surface: a lush, green biome filled with familiar dwarven architecture. A massive underground tunnel, the Coreway, connects it to the game's next zone, the mines of the Ringing Deeps. That zone, in turn, is connected to two other zones: Hallowfall and the Nerubian kingdom of Azj-Kahet.
WoW zones within an expansion have always largely been traversable without loading screens, but there is something extremely satisfying about being able to hop on your flying mount (which can now be controlled in the same way as Dragonflight's dragonriding mounts), leap from the Earthen city of Dornogal, nosedive into the Coreway, and find yourself in a vast, subterranean world, all without interruption. This might be the best collection of zones ever introduced in a WoW expansion. Each one stands tall in its own way, with varied scenery, zone-specific events, and interesting storylines, but two stand out to me in particular: Azj-Kahet and Hallowfall.
Azj-Kahet in many ways feels like an updated version of Suramar from 2016's Legion expansion, as players work with a Nerubian resistance group to overthrow an evil queen. Like Suramar, there is even a sprawling city, the City of Threads, to explore--filled with quests, patrolling guards, and a corresponding dungeon that is an instanced version of the city. It definitely feels familiar, but given that slowly progressing through Suramar to wrench the city from the clutches of its corrupted ruler in Legion's endgame was one of that expansion's highlights, I'm happy to see the formula repeated here. While Azj-Kahet is largely focused on the Nerubians, there is also a mysterious new race--the dark troll-like Haranir--that exists in the shadows of the zone. Despite one appearing in a cinematic trailer, they are a relatively small presence in the game at launch, and I'm curious to see what role the Haranir play in the months ahead.
Entering the massive cavern of Hallowfall for the first time as part of the main campaign almost feels like stepping into an entirely new expansion, evoking a feeling similar to emerging from the sewers of the Imperial City and venturing into Cyrodiil at the start of The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion or stepping into Hyrule for the first time in The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild. Blizzard's art team has truly outdone itself here: Airships dot the skies, and a massive light-emitting crystal makes the zone appear not as if it was deep underground but on the surface. When that crystal transforms in real time from emitting holy energy to being shrouded in the darkness of the void, the zone takes on an entirely different feeling. Hallowfall is home to the Arathi Expedition, an offshoot of a long-hidden empire. Though the dwarf-like Earthen are billed as the game's newest culture and playable race, it's the Arathi, many of whom are half-elves, who steal the show. I found myself hooked on learning more about them, their culture, and the mysterious empire from which they hail.
That's not to say the Earthen aren't full of their own surprises. If I'm being honest, I wasn't very excited about the rock-dwarves when they were first revealed. They've been glimpsed in WoW before and nothing about them initially made me eager to learn more, much less create an Earthen character. I'm happy to report that they are far more interesting than they appear to be at first glance: a culture divided into those who still serve their Titan creators and those who seek their own path. Due to their almost mechanical nature and long-lasting lives, many Earthen storylines revolve around memory, as the Earthen are periodically reborn and their memories essentially overwritten. Some reject this fate and opt to die a natural death of sorts, while others are forced to come to terms with essentially starting life over. One of the expansion's most touching, and potentially tear-jerking, questlines revolves around an elderly Earthen losing their memory and preparing for the end of their life. They enlist you to help them make one final journey, and along the way you watch their mind and memory fade, and the effect it has both on them and their caregiver. It's an emotional quest, especially for those who have found themselves having to watch a loved one go through a similar experience, as I and many others have. Blizzard handles it with a deft hand, and it will be a story I remember for a long, long time.
For The Alliance
Story is one of The War Within's strong suits. Whereas Dragonflight was a welcome reprieve from the game's much-hated Shadowlands expansion (with its convoluted lore revolving around afterlives, Arbiters, and whatever the Jailer's deal was), Dragonflight also felt largely inconsequential and disconnected from WoW's larger narrative and many of its most prominent characters. That's not the case with The War Within, which immediately takes a major player off the board and establishes Xal'atath, shrugging off an arcane kamehameha with hardly a scratch like she's a Dragon Ball Z villain. Xal'atath has come a long way from her origins as a talking knife in Legion, and even if her ability to seemingly be invulnerable is a little one-note so far, she is scary and ruthless in a way a Warcraft villain hasn't been since the likes of Garrosh. I'm excited to see how every WoW player's favorite "knaifu" develops over the course of The Worldsoul Saga, it having been confirmed she won't be a "one and done" expansion villain.
Whereas many of WoW's most-important characters were, for the most part, MIA in Dragonflight's campaign, they take center stage here, though Horde players are likely to be disappointed. Much of The War Within focuses on Alleria Windrunner, Magni Bronzebeard, and Anduin Wrynn, who are each struggling with their own internal demons in the face of yet another crisis on Azeroth. They are all Alliance characters, leaving the former Horde warchief Thrall, who is only present in the main story's opening moments before leaving to gather reinforcements, as the only Horde representation. I won't spoil much, but excluding Thrall (and Jaina Proudmoore, who also appears briefly at the start), each character undergoes a personal journey and comes out the other side with a new perspective. It's not exactly groundbreaking stuff, but it is nice to see the story of someone like Magni, who has been stuck in character-development hell for over half a decade as Azeroth's Speaker, move forward in a meaningful way. It's just a shame Blizzard couldn't find a Horde character to put a spotlight on over the course of the main story, though post-campaign story quests have already put more of a focus on Thrall and other Horde characters than the campaign itself does.
How Blizzard's latest tells its story is also worth mentioning, as it's a serious step up even from Dragonflight. The main story itself is relatively short but moves at a steady pace as players progress through each zone in a linear fashion, sprinkled with far more in-engine cutscenes than in previous expansions. Each cutscene demonstrates just how far Blizzard's storytelling has come in recent years, with greatly improved character models and animations. The main story even takes players directly through modified versions of some of the game's dungeons thanks to the recent addition of NPC Follower dungeons--a first for a WoW expansion and a move that makes the game's overarching story and that of many of its dungeons feel more interwoven than in previous expansions. On subsequent characters, players can play the campaign in any order, or just ignore it and focus on side quests and world quests. Players will need to supplement the game's campaign quests with side quests and content in order to reach max level on their first character, and that's where many of The War Within's best narrative moments can be found.
Many NPCs now include additional dialogue options lore-hungry players can use to learn more about Khaz Algar's people and their cultures. Some of my favorite (and completely optional) quests simply involve sitting at a table talking with various characters, whether it's chatting with Anduin and Faerin Lothar while learning an Arathi board game or joining in on an Arathi family dinner. In addition, many NPCs in main quests and prominent side-quest chains feature a "Stay awhile and listen" option that, when selected, plays out an extra, extended dialogue scene between characters. This option isn't strictly new for this expansion, but it is used far more frequently, and to much greater effect, than the handful of times it's appeared in the past. Though they are entirely optional, these dialogue scenes deliver some of The War Within's most-memorable beats, like Magni bonding with his grandson Dagran or Alleria being reunited with her partner. Rather than simply speeding through quests as quickly as possible (as I have been guilty of doing in the past), I found myself clicking every dialogue option and always opting to "stay awhile," which helped me become even more invested in the game's cast of characters and its new setting.
Delving Into Endgame
Beyond improvements to storytelling, Blizzard has clearly recognized that there is a sizable number of WoW players who aren't into pushing Mythic dungeon keys or raiding with a group of 20 strangers in order to gear up and progress through WoW's endgame--a formula that has largely stayed the same since 2016's Legion expansion. Enter Delves: a new form of endgame content that can be done entirely solo (or with a group).
It's too early to say how Delves will pan out long-term given that only three out of 11 total difficulty options are currently available, but so far they are largely a good time. Each of the game's 12 Delves at launch sees players battling their way through a 10-15-minute scenario with varied objectives and modifiers, whether it's rescuing trapped miners or finding specific items. Some of the Delve-specific mechanics are more enjoyable than others. One somewhat annoying underwater Delve requires players to seek out air bubbles lest they drown, while another tasks players with avoiding spider-webs on the ground that, when stepped on, will summon more enemies. There are variants of each Delve too, and each culminates in a boss fight, after which there is a treasure room of rewards for players to collect. Defeating rare mobs inside a Delve will reward players with a temporary power similar to the ones seen in Torghast or occasionally used in various activities in Dragonflight, giving players an additional edge that I'm sure will be more necessary at higher difficulties. Within a Delve, players are accompanied by an NPC companion who will change seasonally. At launch, it's dwarven explorer Brann Bronzebeard, who can be assigned a healer or damage-dealing role and customized with various abilities.
Delves aren't as inventive or visually exciting as the game's tried-and-true dungeons, of which there are some true standouts this time around, like one that sees players darting from various airships to repel a Nerubian attack or another set in a massive cathedral that brings to mind the game's old Scarlet Monastery dungeons. Delves are, however, extremely easy at lower difficulties, though I'm sure that's something that will change once the higher tiers are unlocked. As an endgame activity for largely solo players to gear up and earn rewards, it seems like they will get the job done and accomplish their goal of being bite-sized adventures players can squeeze in when short on time while still offering meaningful rewards.
Talent Show
If there is one new addition in The War Within that doesn't quite land, it's Hero Talents. These sub-specializations (two for each spec) aim to bring even more power to players while delivering on some of Warcraft's long-established fantasies, whether it's becoming a Dark Ranger Hunter or a Rider of the Apocalypse Deathknight. Each Hero Talent tree features 10 nodes, all of which players will have unlocked at the new max level of 80. In each tree are a handful of nodes that give players the option to select between two choices.
While often visually impressive (I will never get tired of seeing a Pit Lord stick its head out of the Twisting Nether to blast my foes as a Diabolist Warlock), from a gameplay perspective Hero Talents leave plenty to be desired. Players have very few choices to make within the trees themselves, and each tree largely consists of passive skills that modify existing abilities. Of the Hero Talents I've been able to use and look through, it appears the majority of Hero Talent trees don't alter the way you play your character in any significant way. That's certainly true in the case of the four Hero Talent trees I tried as a Retribution Paladin and Demonology Warlock.
Balance is also an issue, as it seems like many Hero Talent specs are simply better than the alternative for any given specialization. That was the case for Retribution and Demonology, where the strong visuals and power that came from the Templar and Diabolist Hero Talents far outshined the respective alternative options, Herald of the Sun and Soul Harvester. That makes for an unpleasant scenario where a player may really like the particular class fantasy of one Hero Talent specialization but feel forced to pick a different one in order to be competitive in endgame activities. Damage numbers and the like can be tuned in the weeks ahead to make lacking Hero Talent specs more competitive, but it still seems like a misfire in an expansion that is otherwise on-point.
As for the rest of The War Within, PvP players are finally thrown a bone in the form of a new PvP battleground, Deephaul Ravine. It's the first new battleground introduced since 2018, and one that is most similar to Mists of Pandaria's Silvershard Mines. Two teams battle to escort two carts to their destination in order to score points, while the team that captures the crystal (aka flag) found in the middle of the symmetrical map will earn points as well. Having played a few rounds of the new battleground, I'm impressed by its simplicity. The map itself is small, meaning players are almost constantly in the action. However, the map does feature more verticality than most WoW battlegrounds, with players able to battle it out atop (or shoot down from) an elevated minecart rail that cuts through the center of the map. That adds an extra bit of strategy, as it's on top of the bridge where abilities that can displace enemies truly shine, allowing you to knock foes down to the ground below, causing them to take fall damage.
With some truly impressive new zones, top-notch presentation in both art direction and music, a renewed emphasis on storytelling and characters, a whole new form of endgame content in Delves, full-fledged account-wide progression, and even a new PvP battleground for the first time in six years, The War Within is the complete WoW package. Though it may be lacking in a big, expansion-specific feature, the evergreen features it does add change the game dramatically for the better. Even if Hero Talents, both in concept and execution, don't quite stick the landing, many of them do at least look extremely cool, which isn't nothing in a game where the true endgame for many players is to look as stylish as possible. The fact that they are intended to be a core part of the game going forward means Blizzard will have time to get balancing right and hopefully up the, ahem, "wow factor" of underwhelming Hero Talent specs, but it is a shame that they don't make a bigger splash right out of the gate.
The War Within marks not only the start of The Worldsoul Saga, but the beginning of what seems like a new era of WoW. All the old staples--Mythic+ dungeons, raids, PvP, world quests-- are still there, but the game's newfound focus on letting you play how you want to play, rather than forcing you to play a certain way, makes it a far more enjoyable experience. Blizzard is finally meeting players where they are, not where it wants them to be, and that means whether you like to focus on one character or play many--solo or with a guild--there is something here for you. The War Within is WoW at its most approachable, and it's all the better for it.
In Outlaws, you play as Kay Vess, an up-and-coming mercenary who finds herself becoming an outlaw after a job goes poorly and a high-stakes bounty called a death mark is placed on her. To escape the bounty, Kay finds herself thrust into the position of putting together a crew to break into the near-impenetrable vault of the man who wants her dead--without any money, he won't be able to pay for the bounty hunters on her tail. Her attempts to put together the perfect team take her across the Outer Rim of the galaxy, always accompanied by the latest in Star Wars' long procession of Weird Little Guys, the adorably axolotl-like Nix. In her adventures, Kay regularly comes into contact or conflict with four criminal organizations--the Pyke Syndicate, Crimson Dawn, the Hutt Cartel, and the Ashiga Clan--as well as the Rebel Alliance and Galactic Empire, the latter of which is hunting down the former following the events of The Empire Strikes Back.
Even ignoring the obvious shortcoming--Kay is yet another human protagonist in a sea of Star Wars games, movies, and TV shows that also feature a human protagonist--Kay is just not that interesting. A common narrative throughline for Outlaws is that Kay is aimless and doesn't know what she wants for her future, not even having any plans for how to spend the millions she'll have once her crew has stolen from the man who wants her dead. The other characters like to remind Kay about this a lot, which in turn acts as a frequent prompt to the player that you're embodying someone with no apparent aspirations or goals. That's a character who's hard to relate to and even harder to write for, as is evident by the lack of any clear arc to Kay's story. There are moments where the game seems to posit that the story has changed Kay, but there's no build-up to any of them and so they ultimately feel narratively confusing or sudden and unfulfilling. When the credits rolled, I wasn't convinced that Kay had actually undergone any sort of personal growth. The Kay at the end of the game largely talks and acts like the one at the beginning, save for an appreciation for her new teammates (and I'm still unclear as to why she likes them). And if the main character hasn't grown at all, then what were the past 30 hours of story for?
Typically, this wouldn't be too much of an issue for me. A lot of Star Wars games have bland protagonists with wonky character arcs (Cal Kestis in Fallen Order, for example, or Iden Versio in Battlefront 2) but these are offset with a deeply compelling or intriguing supporting character (Merrin in Fallen Order and Del Meeko in Battlefront 2). Outlaws doesn't have that crutch, as the supporting cast around Kay isn't all that interesting. BX-series droid commando ND-5--an initially cold robotic slave ordered to watch over Kay who warms up to her and becomes a friend by the story's conclusion--is a strong contender, especially given a late-game story development that almost (but doesn't quite) tilt Outlaws into a horror-like narrative space that could have been very interesting. But the way the game writes Kay and ND-5's relationship feels overly rushed. The story doesn't earn the two characters becoming partners, which is at the core of ND-5's arc.
The best part about Outlaws' story (and the game in general) is the sound design. Everyone who had a part in the creation of the musical score or the design of the sound effects used for the blasters, speeders, ships, or environmental murmurs deserves all the accolades. Outlaws sounds quintessentially Star Wars, beating out the gold standard of Respawn's Jedi games. The orchestral surge as Kay takes off into space and activates her ship's hyperdrive for the first time is sublime, and I was positively buzzing with adrenaline as the distinct hum of Kay's blaster cooling and Nix's excited squeals broke through the triumphant horns that signaled I had held my own against a truly staggering number of Imperial soldiers. Perfectly jumping off a ramp in a speeder to circumnavigate an Imperial roadblock rewarded me with an intense burst of speed that I swear I could feel in my bones as I heard Kay's speeder initially shudder from the impact before she pressed the throttle and the engine's normally comforting hum briefly escalated into a dangerous whir. For as many issues that I have with this game, there are twice as many moments where the music and sound effects briefly transported me into the world of Star Wars, and I haven't been that immersed in the franchise in decades. The music and sound design is superb.
That said, Outlaws positions itself as a lot of things and doesn't follow through on most of them. The story implies this will be a heist--grab the crew, make a plan, do the job--but there's very little of that. The gameplay points to Outlaws being a stealth game, as Kay has no Force powers or fancy body armor and relies on Nix to distract guards or security cameras, but she is so skilled with a blaster that unless you put the game on harder difficulties, she can quite handily mow through legions of Storm Troopers or criminal armies and forgo stealth entirely. The inclusion of a ship seems to indicate that space battles will be a pillar of the experience, but the ship handles poorly and space battles are an unexciting slog--barring a couple of mandatory moments, the game allows you to avoid space altogether, and that's for the better. And a relationship tracker that provides updates on Kay's fluctuating status with the four criminal syndicates indicates that who you have alliances with and animosity against impacts how Kay is perceived. But barring one unrewarding moment right at the end of the story, it doesn't. It affects which areas of the different hubs you can interact with and which outfits you unlock, but neither fundamentally affects the experience of playing the game. It's underwhelming how little Kay has a hand in influencing the four-way crime war at the center of the game's story, and it's irritating to watch your attempts at making big choices repeatedly deflate into unfulfilling narrative consequences.
For example, I opted to side with Crimson Dawn on every issue, regardless of morality, which kept Kay's relationship with them at Excellent and lowered both the Pykes and Hutts to Poor (the Ashiga surprisingly remained at Good despite no attempt on Kay's part to help them outside of one mandatory story mission that forces her to). And so Kay's relationship with Crimson Dawn was at the highest it could be by the time I reached Kijimi, a planet where the Crimson Dawn and Ashiga Clan are in conflict. Crimson Dawn leadership acted like they had no idea who I was, however. So in a final bid to try and have some sort of impact on the story, I made a drastic decision at the end of that particular arc. Leading up to the conclusion, the bombmaker that Kay had been trying to recruit told Kay that she'd join Kay's crew if Kay did the right thing and sided with the Ashiga. Other characters also told Kay how bad it would be for the Ashiga if Kay did not side with them, and how not doing that might destroy their clan from the inside out. I still chose Crimson Dawn anyway...and a fairly prominent character died. I was frothing with excitement--at last, here was a moment where my poor actions would have a consequence! But it didn't. The bombmaker joined my crew anyway. Kay had a two-minute meltdown about having a hand in someone dying and then dropped the subject, never to be brought up again. Crimson Dawn, meanwhile, never factored into the story after that, so my decision for Kay to blindly stay loyal to them had no impact.
In the end, completing optional assignments to boost Kay's favor with the various syndicates on the tracker is just there to give you more stuff to do. And if all you want is more, then you'll probably like aspects of Outlaws like the relationship tracker more than I did. But it's all so deflating how little impact that has on the game's story and gameplay. Outlaws is a beautiful game that sounds great and manages to capture these delightful moments of one person enjoying the smaller elements of the multitude of cultures in Star Wars, but then the gameplay and story fall short when it comes to differentiating the four criminal enterprises that define much of Kay's adventure. Their soldiers all fight pretty much the same, their bases contain vendors that sell similar items, and their bosses all initially regard Kay with a cool indifference that usually softens into a more "You're alright kid" vibe as the story goes on. Your experience playing Outlaws is virtually the same no matter who you support or betray, leaving those choices feeling hollow and narratively unsatisfying.
Combat, at least, is more exciting, and when combat breaks out, Kay is a capable gunslinger. Armed with a blaster that can deftly switch between four distinct shots on the fly (stun blast, standard fire, electrified shots, and a powerful blast), Kay can react to pretty much any situation in front of her. Nix can be commanded to fetch the fallen firearms in the midst of a fight, letting Kay temporarily wield more powerful rifles, snipers, and grenade launchers too. And when Kay has done enough cool stuff in a row (stealth takedowns, successful kills, things like that), she can build up enough adrenaline to unleash a special move during which time briefly slows and she can mark off several targets to take out in a split second.
Kay handles just fine, no less agile than the frontrunners in other action-adventure games like Tomb Raider's Lara Croft or Horizon Zero Dawn's Aloy. But Kay can handle most threats by staying in place and keeping behind cover. Unless you put Outlaws on a harder difficulty, firefights are only a passing challenge. They take more brain power than stealth encounters (which we'll touch on in a bit) because you have to react more quickly, but the enemy AI isn't very smart--often I could just wait behind cover and let the enemies blindly charge me, making them easy targets. These fights are cheap easy thrills--there's nothing groundbreaking about Outlaws' combat mechanics, but they aren't bad by any means either.
The main crux of Outlaws gameplay, however, is stealth encounters. Kay regularly has to sneak inside somewhere to find someone or something or escape an enemy base without being seen. The gameplay is fine. Kay can direct Nix to distract guards or cameras or use takedowns or the stun setting on her blaster to silently knock out enemies. There's even grass for her to hide in and whistle from to attract the hapless guards, akin to Assassin's Creed, and air ducts to crawl through.
It all works as intended, but there's not much that feels rewarding in it. The enemy AI is egregiously dumb, returning to normal patrol patterns after investigating disturbances for only a few moments or falling for the same distraction over and over. Lots of enemies in these missions stand still facing a computer (making them easy to sneak up on) or patrol in mapped patterns (making them easy to predict). The experience feels less like solving a puzzle, and more like being told an obvious solution. Is that a camera? Send Nix to distract. Are those two guards patrolling close to bushes? Hide and whistle them over one at a time to take them out. No way to reach the guard on the far-off platform? Wait for the stun gun to recharge and then take him out from a distance. The order of operations changes from mission to mission, but the solutions to each step of the stealth encounters rarely change, making it feel unrewarding to "figure them out." You don't have to think critically or strategically to get through them.
I say "rarely changes" because there are two adjustments Outlaws makes in the final hours of the game that break the established flow and force you to think about how to move forward. The first is a one-and-done experience where Kay has to go through a story mission without Nix, removing the ability to distract from a distance. That was fun, but it didn't last as Outlaws promptly returned to its normal gameplay format. The other change is more substantial, however. Near the end of the game's story, Kay gets into more encounters where being detected is an instant fail state, meaning you can't just blast everyone away if you fail to stay hidden (unless you are exceptionally quick on the draw). In addition to that, more heavy enemies are introduced. These foes cannot be stun-gunned down, nor can Kay do a silent takedown on them without grabbing an optional upgrade. And, if alerted to Kay's presence, their big healthbars make them hard to take down, allowing them to overwhelm and easily stop Kay before she can prevent anyone from reaching the alarm.
The more regular inclusion of these enemies do a great job of showcasing what Outlaws could have been, where Kay can't easily take out everyone in a room and is a lone woman against very high odds. The enemies are still pretty dumb in these instances and the path forward is still linear, but there's an underlying tension to these encounters that doesn't exist earlier on because sometimes the obvious answer forward is one you don't have. The game might be saying, "This is where you stealth takedown this enemy and stun blast the other," but if both are heavies that are immune to both options, then you have to be a little creative in how to get past them. I really enjoyed the stealth encounters in the final 10 hours of Outlaws because of that. However, my enjoyment waned once I went to unlock the optional upgrade that allowed Kay to silently take down these high-endurance targets. Once that was done, the stealth encounters became a cakewalk again. In hindsight, I shouldn't have done it.
I don't regret the effort I put into unlocking the ability, however. Outlaws does not have a traditional skill tree where Kay unlocks new abilities by earning points. Instead, Kay can hear rumors about Experts hidden in the world and then, using those clues, track these people down to wherever they're hiding on one of the various planets. After befriending these Experts, they'll clue Kay in to challenges she can complete for them--killing enemies in a certain way, for instance, or finding a particular item--and upon doing so, Kay unlocks additional abilities and upgrades that add more options to her toolbelt. Proving that she's adaptable enough to take down threats after distracting them lets Kay unlock the Merchant's ability to fast-talk enemies who spot her so they hesitate before shooting her or sounding the alarm, for example, and completing a challenge for the Mechanic can give Kay access to smoke bombs to break line of sight.
These challenges add a degree of optional complexity to Outlaws' gameplay, introducing small goals that you can keep in the back of your mind while in the midst of a firefight or slinking through a restricted area. Save for the handful the story forces you to unlock, none of these additional abilities are mandatory for beating the game, but completing the challenges to unlock them introduces entertaining tests of skill. They can also lead you to gorgeous vistas and secret wonders that hide the components an Expert sometimes tells you that you need to nab. These tasks aren't narratively rewarding, but their inclusion does improve the gameplay by encouraging you to mix things up a little throughout the 30-hour runtime.
Going off the beaten path to complete these challenges also helps you see more of Outlaws' handful of worlds. Save for Kijimi (which is mostly just one hub), each of the planets is a collection of hub spaces connected by an open-world. Kay is free to explore these spaces at her leisure, though the story is written in a way that really only affords that agency on Toshara, the second planet and where Kay's adventure truly begins. Once you leave Toshara, the story keeps ramping up and it's repeatedly implied that Kay is running out of time to clear her name. This is all arbitrary, of course, and you have as much time as you want to, but I found myself engaging with the side content and exploring the open worlds less and less as the game progressed and the narrative tension continued to ramp up. Thankfully, it's still all there once the credits roll, so if a particular side quest interests you but the game pressured you (like me) into feeling like you didn't have time for it, it will still be waiting for you once Kay's adventure wraps up.
Still, it's a weird clash. As Kay walks around hubs, random characters will call out to her and ask for her help, brokers that Kay has befriended will send her messages about possible jobs, Kay will overhear chatter about a hidden cache of treasure or a secret gambling parlor where bigshots bet huge amounts of money, and Kay can really only make strides in the syndicate relationship tracker by completing side quests for people. And yet, the game's main story heavily implies that Kay does not have time to deal with these people. It feels like the game is offering a lot to do but also telling you that you don't have time to do it.
Which is a shame, because some of the optional quests offer stronger gameplay experiences than the main story missions. Whereas most of Kay's misadventures in the story are linear, quite a few of the side quests are more open-ended. For example, infiltrating Imperial bases to steal away intel oftentimes offer multiple means of entry and a handful of pathways through the space, letting the stealth mechanics shine a little brighter in actual puzzles that you have to put some thought into solving--the normally repetitive rhythm-based lockpicking minigame temporarily acquired a degree of unnerving pressure when I opted to do it while Nix was distracting a camera and I could hear Storm Troopers I had failed to detect earlier slowly approaching down the hall. I kept having Kay look over her shoulder to see how much my window was closing and wondering why I had opted for this strategy instead of finding a way to reach the power generator that would have shut off security systems like the cameras first. Juggling multiple threats and doing so with a bit of time crunch? Where were these thrills in the main story campaign?
To get around these open-worlds, Kay has two main means of transportation: a speeder and her ship, the Trailblazer. I'm a much bigger fan of the former. Though initially unwieldy and difficult to control, Kay's speeder can be upgraded with all manner of parts that make it more nimble and increase its maneuverability, helping Kay speed through Outlaws' handful of open-worlds at entertainingly breakneck speeds. It's designed to make the trek between point A and point B faster and more thrilling, and in both goals, it succeeds.
I'm colder on the Trailblazer. Aesthetically, it's a remarkable ship--one of my new favorites for the Star Wars universe--and using it to take off from and land on planets is exciting given the accompanying orchestral swell. But in the vacuum of space, the Trailblazer doesn't handle all that well, even after you upgrade it. Dogfights are either frustrating encounters against more nimble starfighters or boring slogs against equally slow cargo ships. And space in Outlaws isn't pretty. Star Wars has had some beautiful space environments but those haven't made their way into Outlaws. In comparison to the lush and verdant jungles of Akiva or the ever-constant and frigid snowfall of Kijimi, Outlaws' space environments lack much in the way of character. There are differences in their layout, but they don't convey much variety in terms of appearance to entice you to explore them.
Thankfully, like I said before, you can skip most of space. Save for two or three mandatory space battles and missions in the main story, you never have to spend any time among the stars. The Trailblazer is fast enough to outrun anyone who might want to fight you, so getting close enough to a planet to land on it is a cinch. And once you return to space, you can launch the hyperdrive immediately and bypass everything to get straight to your next destination. That said, given how weak the space part of the game is, it was a bad decision to make a space battle the penultimate moment of the story and the major final fight. It robs much of the narrative momentum from Outlaws' final moments with the game's worst gameplay.
There are so many little moments in Outlaws that I love. However, the unexciting space combat and unrewarding syndicate-relationship tracker don't add anything meaningful to the experience. And neither does Kay, who feels like a protagonist without a meaty narrative arc. The game has some successes when it comes to gunslinging or sneaking--both of which are aided by a superb soundtrack and incredible sound design--but Outlaws does too much of what it does poorly, and too little of what it does well.
The Mana series has a long and admittedly inconsistent history. There have been ups and downs, but games like Trials of Mana hold a special place in my heart. Decades on from that game's original release and a few years from its remake, the Mana series has another swing at a full-fledged title with Visions of Mana. As the first original mainline game since 2006's Dawn of Mana, does Visions still have the juice for something revelatory? Unfortunately, no. Visions of Mana is not a worthy successor to the series’ best nor worth the time it takes to excavate its few virtues to find that out.
Like many of the games in the Mana series, Visions takes place in a new world with similar touchstones to previous titles: There is a Mana tree, monster-like elementals governing the natural forces of the world, animal demi-humans, and the like. In Visions' world, however, these forces are constantly waning and require the sacrifice of seven souls every four years to the Mana tree. It is considered an honor to be chosen to die for the Mana tree and the vast majority of characters treat it as such, including the entire main cast, who make a point to never think too hard about it.
Visions of Mana is about going on a journey with some of the least introspective characters that have ever been written into a story. The cast never thinks long term about their own fates or the men, women, and children that have been sacrificed before them or will be sacrificed after. A traditional story about breaking the cycle and pondering their destinies just never comes, leaving the main cast feel like poorly-written caricatures that are barely involved in their own narrative.
Every single time I thought that Visions of Mana's story was going to be a layer deeper than what appeared on the surface, I was gut-punched by its aggressive refusal to take the next step. Small moments where characters could be built beyond plasticine marionettes fall flat on their face and are often never referenced again. Visions' story, without spoilers, strikes me as an alternate-universe Bravely Default wherein the game does not attempt to be subversive and instead plays deception as benevolence.
I held on to a deep hope that, even if Visions of Mana's story were disappointing, the gameplay would be compelling enough to act as a saving grace. This is an easily believable delusion until I realized how absolutely banal the interstitial areas between cities actually are. Rather than be fun romps filled with monsters and fun things to explore, they're dotted with collectible orange globules called Grizzly Syrup that number in the thousands. There's a handful of other activities other than fights, but they all involve finding or collecting items that feel randomly dropped in different locations rather than thoughtfully placed.
Collecting these items can be as difficult as the game arbitrarily decides to make it. Despite being given a generous air-dash and double-jump to utilize, areas are often capriciously blocked off with invisible walls. Think you see a treasure chest an easy few jumps away? Good luck getting there if an unseen barrier has been placed in the way. I often felt like I was being punished with tedium only for embracing the tools the game provides..
This movement frustration is compounded within towns, which have their own share of secrets and theoretical shortcut traversal, but also make the irrational decision to limit your double-jump to a single-jump. I do not understand this choice. No one is being harmed by your character jumping more often, and it makes walking around towns have the sensation of walking through sludge. Couple that with the strange inability to rearrange your party before you venture out to do more battles and exploration often results in just wanting to rush through it as fast as possible.
Bugs are not especially uncommon, either. The game crashed more than once. Enemies sometimes fell through the ground and required running from battle with no rewards to fix. For that matter, running from battle accidentally in the course of battle and immediately re-entering it with all the enemies at full-health happened occasionally, especially in tighter arenas near the end. On three separate occasions, I came out of battle being unable to walk any longer. I could dash, I could jump, and I made do with just that until I could get to a save point, but walking did not return until I reloaded the game.
The side quests in the game are unimaginative at best. More often than not, they boil down to beating a certain number of specific enemies or defeating certain enemies somewhere else. They are not retroactive, which might have made them more tolerable. Instead, they have the vibes of homework assigned by the teacher with minutes left in the class. It would be unsurprising if most players just stopped doing them as a whole by the end of the game, because they truly never improve to become anything compelling.
As action-RPGs, it would be easy to assume the Mana series' most redeeming feature would be its battles, but Visions of Mana manages to somehow prove that wrong. Battles are often quite fun early on, but at some point take a hard right turn into frustrating difficulty. As more and stronger enemies crowd the party, Visions becomes less like intermingling systems of reactions and strategy and more a hanging question of, "What the hell is knocking me down now?"
That the game has multiple varied job classes aligned to the different elements--a genuinely fun and interesting mechanic that is compelling to play around with--matters less when you cannot tell which enemy is juggling you repeatedly through an incomprehensible and unparseable cloud of 3D models and effects.
Boss fights are mostly determined by elemental weaknesses, which are usually easy to guess by realizing you are in a Wood dungeon and thus likely to fight a Wood boss. The problem is that coming in with the wrong element either means a tediously long boss fight or one the party simply won't overcome. On the flip side of that coin, correctly preparing for the right elemental weaknesses brings bosses in the first half of the game to heel entirely too quickly and without much resistance.
This dynamic had me wishing for something other than a stomp on either side of the equation, which turned out to be a wish suitable for a curling finger on a monkey paw. By the end of the game, bosses hit entirely too hard, with one late-game water boss effectively wiping out the party in two to three hits. In a game where I cannot control exactly what my party members choose to do, such as running headfirst into a swiping claw that quickly slaughters them before I can react, this can get frustrating.
The most harm done to movement and battle is Visions of Mana's aggressive input delay. Sometimes moves will dial-in fine, and other times a character will be hit by an attack they surely dodged. It does not feel good in battle nor does it make the exploration feel any smoother. The truly maddening part is the inconsistency of it, ensuring that I could never really build this issue into my timing.
The dungeons in the game last around 10-20 minutes each, usually having a gimmick or mechanic to learn. Early dungeons show you devices and apparatuses that are not only used for puzzles within that space but expand into the greater explorable world. Later, dungeon design becomes bereft of truly interesting ideas and relies on baffling choices to progress. One late-game dungeon features a switch to raise or lower the water level--except you can only raise it, the switch disappears after raising it once, and it is never used or referenced again. Situations like this scream cut content, which makes a short dungeon without anything engaging to sink my teeth into just seem incomplete.
The overall pacing of Visions is inexplicable. At times the journey has incidental goals that are constantly waylaid, though the entire party takes it beyond stride and into a dreamlike complacency. There is no gradual sense of getting stronger, either through mechanics or story, which makes a wild late-game decision to take on new foes feel utterly baffling. Again, this often feels like an unfinished game, and the pacing is a huge contributor to that perception.
Aesthetically, I do quite like Visions of Mana. Characters sometimes look like plastic dolls, but the bright colors and fun animations add to their designs. There are scenes that evoke concept art from Secret of Mana or just generally beautiful vistas and verdant fields to look upon in awe. Unfortunately, Visions of Mana looks quite a bit better in stills than in motion, with performance problems clogging not just battles but also cutscenes. Despite prioritizing framerate in the game's menu, battles will often stutter and cutscenes will drop to lower framerates without anything going on to justify it.
Audio is a similar melange of good and bad. Nothing from the musical selection is an earworm, but it is all good enough to carry the mood. The voice acting, on the other hand, fails to impress even in small doses. Not all the characters or lines are bad, but they feel like a Saturday morning cartoon that rises to the low bar of the story and not much further. The line reads are also not distinctive enough to parse everything being said during battle, nor varied enough to care what is being said during battle before tuning it out.
There are the rare bits of good in Visions of Mana that it would be unfair to ignore. There are occasional moments of brilliance in the world design and character asides that would surely be indicative of a greater story had they been followed up. Instead, the disappointment compounds when they are not used to their full potential, leaving what should be likable characters and fun discoveries to feel like shredded pieces of paper lining an editing-room floor.
I really cannot stress how much I had been looking forward to Visions of Mana as someone that counts games like Trials of Mana among my favorite SNES RPGs. But as the game's credits rolled, I breathed a sigh of relief. It was not just that the game was over, but that I no longer had to wonder whether it would turn itself around and make good on the dormant quality it never had the courage to reach up and grasp. Visions of Mana, after the credits, no longer had the capacity to disappoint me further.
There is a game here for someone willing to lower their standards enough, but trust me when I say there are hundreds of better RPGs for you to spend your time on. You do not need to waste it searching for a few nuggets buried here.
I've been reviewing Madden's annual installments nearly as long as I've been writing online, and I've been playing the series since the mid-'90s as a little boy. It taught me not just how to play football, but also how to play video games. It has been in my life for as long as I can remember and tied to my career as closely as any game. But lately I've wondered if it may be time for me to take a year off. Madden NFL 25 is--for the third consecutive year, by my count--noticeably improved whenever you're on the field playing football. In this regard, last year's game was the best I'd seen in the series' history, and this year's game outdoes that. If you're going to excel at one thing, it's good to have that be the on-field gameplay. However, describing the game's problems off the field is proving to be a difficult task due to so many of them being repeat offenders year after year.
It was a few years ago when EA started using the term Fieldsense to describe Madden's multi-year overhaul of on-field mechanics, and though the term is primarily a nice shorthand for the marketing folks to play off of, it coincided with an obvious intent to fix the game on the virtual gridiron itself. Madden 23 was the first game in the Fieldsense era, and here in its third year, the investment in football fundamentals continues to pay off with Madden 25.
This starts with the game's marquee new feature, Boom Tech. Like the umbrella term of Fieldsense, Boom Tech is the back-of-the-box marketing jargon for what is nevertheless a great new feature. With Boom Tech, the game's collision system has been overhauled considerably. In past years, the Madden team has touted how things like weight and height would matter more, but never before has it really felt so different. This year, the difference is evident and welcome.
Essentially, Boom Tech breaks the game's collision and tackling animations into several smaller animations. This isn't ragdoll physics; instead, it's an animation-branching system with complex math going on under the proverbial hood of the game at all times, and the result is more unpredictable outcomes, all game, every game. You'll still sometimes see animations you recognize from past years, but they are rarer and, when present anyway, made more nuanced. I've seen a wide variety of outcomes in Madden 25 that a football game ought to have, like better-contested catch animations on deep passes and more bruising, Beastquake-like runs that were previously missing from the series.
That's all because of Boom Tech. This new system considers weight, momentum, player ratings, and pursuit angles more effectively when a defender runs into the ball carrier. This doesn't guarantee the bigger, faster player wins a tackle attempt, thankfully, as even the best defenders in the game can be caught out of position, for which they are now more realistically penalized.
This can even mean the ever-reliable Hit Stick is now less of a crutch for an open-field tackler. If you use the Hit Stick too soon, too late, or from a bad angle, you're not going to get one of those fumble-forcing blow-ups like before, and the game's way of now providing on-field feedback for all Hit Stick attempts can tell you exactly why an attempt did or didn't land as intended.
This sounds like a defense-heavy new toy, but it actually helps both sides of the ball. The player with the leg up on his opponent will win this tug-of-war play after play. It feels great and usually looks great, too. But most importantly, it's realistic. To add an extra detail to this new system, running backs now "get skinny" when running through the trenches, too, as they attempt to hit the hole. This makes them a harder target to crash into, which plays directly into that perpetually number-crunching system that is Boom Tech.
The on-field improvements go beyond that. I love how you can better disguise a defense now by presenting a pre-snap look that differs from the coverage you're actually running. Past Madden games had a simplistic version of this, where you could disguise zone coverage as man coverage or vice versa, but this has expanded to include all types of coverage shells, like Cover 3, 4, 6, et al. For the players who are more invested in Xs and Os, this is incredibly gratifying.
On offense, you can now adjust the depth of your receivers' routes, too, which similarly expands on a previously simplified mechanic. Madden has long let you audible a route to "the sticks," meaning you'd make your cut at the first down marker, ensuring you pick up the first down should you complete the catch. But now you can essentially draw the route from the line as the QB using the pre-snap menus. For example, this allows a would-be five-yard in-cutting route to instead be run to various other depths, thereby letting you exploit the holes in a defense more easily.
This provides a great counter for the players grinding out a chess match with a well-disguised defensive guru on the other end. If you can read the defense and see through their disguise, it feels like dodging a jab and landing a haymaker. Even offensive-line adjustments have been given more options, such as shifting half of the line in addition to the previously available whole-line shifts.
These new features share a common trait: nuance. They each expand on systems that have been in the game for years but are now more satisfyingly designed to reward smart football play-calling and excellent execution. It's why, on the field, this is the best Madden has ever been. Following College Football 25, some have complained that Madden feels sluggish. I find the opposite to be true. Madden 25 feels lifelike, whereas College Football 25 is more arcadey, with players that soar around the field as if games are played at 1.5x speed. I find both are enjoyable, but I want my football to be realistic, and Madden 25 is the most realistic entry in the series, all thanks to the team's hyperfocus on nuanced football.
But the attention to detail ends as soon as you step out of bounds. My main concern with the game over the last two years is that, as the on-field product got more enjoyable, most of what has surrounded it has felt stuck in neutral, sometimes seeing such minor improvements that they actually felt worse in a sense, as though the team is often catching up to offer features it should've had beforehand anyway.
This is true once again, and most clearly expressed in Madden 25's suite of game modes. Its offerings are the same as last year's, with most modes getting some attention, but none get enough to compel me to play them beyond Franchise, which I only find enjoyable long-term due to competitive league play.
Annually, the most obvious target for criticism is Madden Ultimate Team (MUT). This genre-redefining pay-to-win mode combines card-collecting with fantasy sports and once more expertly rolls out a heap of Skinner Boxes for players to obsess over for a few dollars at a time. Can you play MUT without spending a dime? Certainly, though I don't know who is having fun that way given the grueling grind through tedious, sometimes borderline inane challenges, such as completing a pass--a single pass--to earn a few coins in a marketplace where anything of value likely costs several thousand or even hundreds of thousands. Still, I expect that most players who jump into MUT don't spend money, as this is frequently said about seemingly any game offering microtransactions.
But it's likely anyone playing MUT for a considerable amount of time is spending money, and that's the idea; if I went to Target every day to simply browse the store without the intention to purchase anything, I would eventually spend money anyway. The same economic principles are clearly displayed in MUT and always have been. Even if you don't play the mode at all, you're greeted with a splash screen advertising a new carrot-on-a-stick to chase almost every single day when you boot up the game.
As I wrote last year, the backlash to pay-to-win systems that other games, such as Star Wars Battlefront 2, had to abandon years ago never really spread to the sports-gaming world. So anything Madden Ultimate Team does that feels good in Madden 25, like its streamlined menus that make sense of the deluge of ongoing events, still lingers inescapably beneath this dark cloud of predatory practices.
This year, the tutorial I praised a few years ago is made optional, which is a nice touch for the players who spend most of their time in MUT and don't need the refresher, and those same high-end (and high-spend) players can engage in more seasons of content than before, with eight in total this year. Those are nice touches for players already neck-deep in the mode, but it doesn't do anything to entice new players or detractors.
The most significant change to MUT in Madden 25 is the new ranked head-to-head (H2H) mode, which takes both your success level and your preferred playstyle into account when assigning you a place on the rankings ladder and matching you with opponents. But my years-old issue with this mode as a whole is seen here on full display once more; the game doesn't (adequately, if at all) differentiate between players spending a lot, a little, or nothing at all, which quickly creates an ecosystem where the free players can either drown or pay to stay afloat. That's always felt deliberate, so each year it returns becomes like a gag reflex for where I spend my time within Madden. It's become my annual tradition to drop the mode entirely after playing it for review.
I admit, there's a comfort in checking the boxes next to each of the game's challenges on what feels like an endless list of things to do, and to see my coin and training points totals increase a little at a time can be as stimulating as payday. The mode is psychologically soothing, by design, but in such an overt way that ultimately turns me away from it.
That design idea of giving players a bunch of boxes to check is seen in the game's other major modes too, including Superstar, its single-player-centric mode that tells the story of one's created athlete, as well as Superstar Showdown, the ultra-flashy mode that throws out traditional football in favor of neon-lit 3v3 streetball.
Each of these modes was given a lot more rewards to earn, with many lengthy questlines coloring in Superstar mode and new seasonal leaderboards in Superstar Showdown, but these feel like things the modes should've had last year, when the studio re-launched Superstar and tied it very closely to its flashier sibling mode. I do enjoy how these modes use the same character, as it means you can upgrade your character for the multiplayer-centric mode by first carving out their NFL career beginning with their rookie season, but this also has the downside of making the lackluster Superstar mode feel vital to progression, and since it's not interesting, it can be a grind in itself.
Though the presentation marginally improves--you're no longer sitting in a lonesome hotel room between games; instead, you're standing around in the locker room--it hasn't done much else to keep players invested like Franchise or even MUT does. On the bright side, EA has resisted letting you buy your way to a higher rating for your Superstar, which is a design decision that annually hurts some other sports games. Still, you can buy XP boosters, including one of the four types that's only purchasable with real money, so it's not a totally clean system either.
Previously, I've not enjoyed Superstar Showdown much, but given some of the game's limited-time modes and events at launch, I found myself slightly more interested in playing it in Madden 25. The first-to-21 rules of the game's default mode have always felt broken since defenses in this mode are so unreliable and trick plays are so easy to execute; it can feel like playing with randomly assigned teammates is a lost cause, as you're likely to be grouped with players who can't pull their weight in a mode where scoring happens roughly every two or three plays.
I see the appeal of offering quick in-and-out games for players seeking an alternative to MUT's short-form challenges, but Superstar Showdown only feels engaging with a reliable team of two buddies running the competitive scene with you, severely limiting its reach. In an ideal world, this mode could be expanded further to become a bigger, more engaging landing spot for players. Though its real-money spending options are also numerous, they're all cosmetic-only, so I really don't take issue with them, even as most outfits are so gaudy that I find them embarrassing.
I think this mode has a future, as it does lean into what players want, with plenty of customization and player-spotlight moments, like an emotes list that gives it a Fortnite-like feel. Today, though, it's not there yet, and the major change in Madden 25 is that it adds more stuff to unlock, which feels cynical. I'll take more rewards, but the mode's gameplay should be inherently fun. Neither Superstar Showdown nor Superstar is fun on its own. Not being able to carry emotes and clothing options forward across Madden years is also a pain point, as many games outside of sports have adopted user-friendly cross-game compatibility like this. This is another area in which sports games get away with offering a worse experience.
I actually find Superstar KO, a mode that debuted with Madden 20, to be more enjoyable than Showdown, but it received no attention this year. In terms of quick experiences, it's the best of them, though it's a low bar. Effectively a Madden roguelite, you start with a team of a few stars and a limited playbook, and you can earn new elite players with each victory on your way to a perfect 4-0 run in online PvP against players with the same restrictions but different team philosophies. When you lose, you start over with a new team and try again. It feels as though it's present in Madden 25 because it's a low-lift task to include it. Otherwise, it would maybe disappear. I fear that's because the mode has no monetization path, and so it's doomed to get few resources and live in the shadow of MUT and Showdown.
Maybe I've come to expect little of these other modes, but my annual Madden wishlist consists of really just three things: better on-field gameplay, more immersive presentation, and deeper Franchise mode options. As I mentioned, Madden 25 executes that first one very well, but the other two areas have only a few bright spots.
On the Franchise end, the biggest change is the new NFL Draft presentation, which kicks off with a cool live-action video package that illustrates how so much of the NFL's appeal is built around this three-day event that consistently changes the trajectory of franchises overnight. In Madden, the game ought to capture that, and though it does in an Xs and Os way--I can draft a player who reshapes my virtual city's skyline, like the late, great Chris Wessesling used to say of Peyton Manning and Indianapolis. However, this year's game tries to mimic the real-life fanfare of actually selecting such a player, and that presentation lands in the same awkward space that Madden has for years whenever it's tried to do narrative content around team-building.
In this year's new Draft presentation, Commissioner Goodell comes on stage and introduces each of the first 10 picks before shaking hands with the selected players and pausing for a photo op, while the rest of the first round is shown on stage too, and later picks are seen celebrating from home. All of this sounds just like real life, but when you watch it happen in the game, it's off, in an uncanny valley, "Did aliens make this?" kind of way. The stage looks drab and empty, the applause from the audience doesn't come close to the raucous energy of the real Draft, and though I can see why voice acting is probably a bad idea, its absence sticks out. It lacks a commentary team breaking down each player's college tape, discussing why they were picked when they were rather than sooner or later, and breaking down how the player may fit on their new pro team.
Even if we pretend Madden's Draft presentation closely captures the real-life atmosphere, sometimes the information you'll see is faulty. After a pick, you'll see a grade for your draft pick, but too many times I just saw an "A." I did a draft where I controlled all 32 teams, and everyone in the first round got an A for a grade--that is until one player finally got a B-. After this point, every draft pick's information actually said this previous player's name and measurables instead of their own. It was as though the grade finally changing somehow broke the entire system. Others online have shown examples of a player's profile picture not matching the person on stage, like a drafted black wideout standing on stage looking like a white offensive lineman.
The changes to the Draft feel superficial, as though EA wants credit for having created a "new Draft presentation" without going far enough to make an interesting Draft presentation. You can't just check a box and say it's done. Too often, Madden's off-field attractions express this trait.
That's a clear issue in another would-be-great new feature. Madden 25 offers multiple commentary teams for the first time in the series, with the legacy group of Brandon Gaudin and Charles Davis being joined by two other teams that sound fun on paper: Mike Tirico and Greg Olsen, as well as Kate Scott and Brock Huard. Having a variety of voices calling games is a wonderful idea, but the two new teams fall shy of convincing. The worst offender is Mike Tirico. I don't know how, but this game has turned one of the best play-by-play guys working today into a robotic facsimile.
It's hard to call games when the game isn't really happening in front of you. I'm sympathetic to that truth, but if you're going to have someone of his caliber in the game, he needs to sound at least close to how entertaining he is in reality. Here, Madden can offer only a funhouse mirror of our world. The same is true for Kate Scott, and I think in both examples, it's partly a case of the team not having enough material to use yet. Gaudin and Davis have cataloged audio for years, and they record new material each year. But I also don't recall the inaugural year of that legacy team being as shallow in their football commentary as these new teams are.
The problem is twofold: There's both stilted delivery and too little material for the commentators to offer any analysis with depth or range. All four of the new voices come off as novices. Even when they attempt to go below the surface and offer meaningful breakdowns with their surely impressive real-life football IQs, they fumble it due to Madden's legacy issue of failing to capture a moment's significance or contradicting itself. Kate Scott closed out my first Super Bowl appearance with the situational awareness of someone texting and driving, offering long stretches of nothingness as the final minutes of the nation's marquee championship game ticked away.
None of the six commentators are immune to saying the wrong thing, like when Greg Olsen--regarded as today's very best color commentator--noted in the fourth quarter of a game how a quarterback was off to a bad first half. Whether you find such gaffes funny or frustrating, they surely aren't rarities; they're too common and go back years in Madden.
On the bright side, the Team Builder web tools first introduced in College Football 25 are now in Madden for the first time ever, letting players create custom team logos, jerseys, and stadiums with a level of detail that no Madden player has ever seen. This is a fun tool with lots of depth, but the best feature is how you can elect to never use it directly and still benefit from the many options in the game's download center.
Bonafide artists can make elaborate, aesthetically cool jerseys and logos, and all you have to do is find one you like in the simple-to-use creation suite. After years of the same tired team logos and USFL-tier uniforms, the Madden team has wisely handed off the art supplies to its community, where they have already found better results.
It's almost mysterious to me how I'm moved to invest hundreds of hours into this series every year despite it reliably offering the same problems--even if the specifics change, the philosophy remains. Off the field, Madden 25 is mostly checking boxes, and it stings to see my favorite sport not receive a video game companion similar in its grandeur. But the on-field gameplay is paramount and, here, very strong. I don't lose sight of that. This makes Madden 25 enjoyable despite its plethora of locker-room issues. I've played over 30 hours of Madden 25 so far, and I will play hundreds more before next August, at which point I will get the newest Madden and undoubtedly do it all over again. In the end, maybe that's the real Madden Curse.
In a world where a large enough portion of the population has access to a magical ability of some kind, it's easy to envision how that might affect their career path. The military would make great use of those able to see into the future or others that travel along a different plane of time, making for the ultimate espionage tools. A surgeon who isn't burdened with the risk of losing a patient on the table could be invaluable for some of the most complex and dangerous tasks in a hospital room, while an adept pyromancer could find honest (or incredibly dishonest) work in a variety of fields. Tactical Breach Wizards has a lot of fun toying around in this space, thrusting together a renegade party of regular, but magically capable, heroes in a globe-spanning adventure that is supported by an engrossing turn-based tactics system that rewards smart thinking and creative experimentation.
The adventure starts with Jen, a plucky witch who gets by as a loose-cannon private investigator. Her latest job gets her involved in a wider conspiracy involving a wizard mafia, a presumed-dead spec ops agent, and a war-torn nation with a valuable resource ripe for exploitation by capitalist countries. It sounds like a checklist for any number of po-faced Tom Clancy novels, but the tongue-in-cheek approach to deconstructing such stories is what makes Tactical Breach Wizards’ lengthy campaign such a joy. It does rely too heavily on occasional exposition dumps to catch you up on why you're moving from one locale to the next, but it's otherwise lifted up by its endearing cast of protagonists and villains alike, with their consistently entertaining banter quickly establishing itself as a highlight.
Jen might be the de facto leader of your party, but she isn't the only one with a personality you'll likely fall in love with. Zan is a retired military man whose entire career hinged on his ability to see just one second into the future, but was hamstrung by his inability to act on this clairvoyance during critical moments. He's a grizzled but often bumbling war veteran, doling out strategic prowess in one scene while defending his inability to keep a cohesive dossier system during the next. Banks, on the other hand, is a skilled surgeon who happens upon the ability to resurrect people, which makes her a target for some nasty people involved in all manner of illegal activities. She's viciously blunt in comparison to Jen and Zan, but equally playful at times, even if it's just by poking fun at Jen's insecurities or pointing out the sheer ridiculousness of the mission they're on.
This trio makes the initial cast, but it's expanded on with new members and memorable villains that further flesh out a sharply written script. Tactical Breach Wizards allows you to spend a lot of time with these characters, and it's impressive how much personality is imparted by each of them through text alone. I consistently looked forward to the brief exchanges between party members in between each level, most of which could definitely have taken place anyway but behind the door of a room filled with enemies. It balances the demanding tactical action with flairs of levity at the right moments, peppering in some fourth-wall-breaking moments but never overusing any one element either. Tactical Breach Wizards knows that it's both funny and endearing, and therefore this self-awareness feels earned.
When your party isn't conversing, they're breaking through doors with loud and flashy hexes. On the surface, Tactical Breach Wizards seems like a familiar take on tile-aligned turn-based gameplay. There's an emphasis on positional placement, a focus on turn efficiency, and a wide array of abilities to use and synergize. Where it begins to differ is in the scope of its skirmishes. Each fight takes place in a relatively small area, never taking more than a couple of minutes and a handful of turns to complete. It's far less about the intense, drawn out fights of XCOM and more akin to the fast-paced bouts in Fights in Tight Spaces or Into the Breach, with Tactical Breach Wizards offering a spin on elements from both in its distinct blend of strategy action.
For starters, you can rest assured that all of the actions you take during your turn will succeed in the ways you expect them too. Zan, for example, features an ability similar to overwatch in XCOM, but isn't burdened by the possibility that he might miss an enemy that wanders into his crosshairs during their turn. Tactical Breach Wizards also lets you see how enemies are going to react to your actions before you move onto your next turn, giving you insight into exactly how much damage your party will take and how the field might be altered. You're given the chance to rewind all the way back to the start of your turn if you're dissatisfied with how things transpire, but have to live with the consequences once you accept the outcome.
Tactical Breach Wizards [thrusts] together a renegade party of regular, but magically capable, heroes in a globe-spanning adventure that is supported by an engrossing turn-based tactics system that rewards smart thinking and creative experimentation
This less punishing approach encourages a level of experimentation that you might miss from other contemporaries in the genre. It's captivating to try and squeeze out every tactical advantage during each turn, rewinding seemingly small decisions that can ultimately have a big impact. It gives you the freedom to truly understand the ways in which your party's varied abilities synergize without the burden of having to fail towards those epiphanies. That doesn't mean it's without challenge, however. With all these tools to aid you, Tactical Breach Wizards' levels all feel like small, self-contained puzzles with open-ended solutions. Careless and wasteful turns can quickly push you into a corner, whether you ignore the threat of reinforcements flooding in through doors you have been too lazy to seal or capitalizing on your misguided prioritization of different enemy types. But it creates this challenge without resorting to frustrating failure as a means of developing your skills while maintaining the rewarding feeling of a well-executed operation.
The tactical depth of each encounter is accentuated by the growing repertoire of abilities you'll have access to as you progress through the campaign. Each of your party members has class-specific spells and abilities to play with, with new ones introduced at key moments of the story. Jen is a witch-of-all-trades, with a devastating chained lighting attack that can dispatch multiple enemies at once and an incredibly useful passive that lets you move again after specific actions. Banks, by contrast, excels as a utilitarian, helping revive dead teammates, debuffing enemies with a far-reaching sedative, or just throwing out a glowing skull to do some damage of her own.
Zan's military background informs the long-ranged attacks from his arcane-powered assault rifle, while his useful decoy can be used to double up on his ability to attack any enemies the rest of your party targets during a turn. These are just a handful of offensive abilities you'll have initially, all of which can be lightly upgraded with perks obtained through experience accrued as you play. Your party composition is determined by the level you're on, so you're consistently required to develop new strategies with new combinations of characters, which prevents each skirmish from getting monotonous.
Setting enemies alight with magical fire or lining up a bunch for a devastating shield charge, but victory in Tactical Breach Wizards often hinges on how you use the environment to your advantage. Most attacks inflict damage, but also induce some form of knockback, letting you bully enemies around the battlefield. Windows are as deadly as wands here, with enemies dying immediately if you manage to push them, emphasizing the importance of a balance between damage and enemy placement.
Compound that with the damage you can inflict if you knock enemies into one another or, better still, into explosive hazards that affect others nearby, and you'll quickly start seeing how rewarding it can be to figure out an efficient way to wipe the board before enemies can even take their turn. But it also creates challenges around where to have your party at the end of each turn, as enemies can be just as brutal and knock you off of the map if you're not careful. Some of the game's funniest moments occur when you think you've just conceived a perfect turn, only to witness half your party get knocked to their deaths when playing out the enemy's turn afterwards.
Varied enemy types and less window-laden stages ensure that you can’t rely on the same strategies all of the time. Larger enemies bring with them some complex buffs, introducing armor to negate damage, gas masks that make them immune to knockback enhancing debuffs, or an outright immunity to being pushed out of a map. Helpful explanations for each type of resistance and immunity can be seen when hovering over an enemy, but the combination of all these effects can sometimes make parsing exactly how to overcome them a little tricky. Some shield-bearing brutes that are introduced mid-way through the campaign are a good example of this. They're the first enemies that you can't really push around, resisting a lot of incoming knockback and traditional damage, while almost making Banks' sedative toothless. They feature so many buffs that stack on one another that it's initially confusing how to start tearing them down, making levels filled with them immediately after their introduction unwelcome difficulty spikes. But they're not frequent enough to completely derail the campaign, and the ability to outright skip levels that are frustrating means you have an option to maintain a pace you're happy with.
Being able to play on your terms expands to optional content throughout the campaign. Optional bonus objectives feature for each party member throughout each level, while you'll also unlock additional combat puzzles and survival challenges as you progress. Completing any of this optional content doesn't reward you with more experience to spend on upgrade; Instead, you earn points that can be used to purchase cosmetic items for each member of your party. This lets you engage with more tactical content if you choose to rather than making it a component vital to campaign progress, which sidesteps any potential frustration around being too underpowered to move forward with the story.
You'll find it harder to avoid any frustration, however, if you decide to play Tactical Breach Wizards with a controller. While there are some buttons assigned for actions like rewinding or ending a turn and quickly swapping between team members, reducing the analog stick to a mouse cursor makes selecting abilities and targeting enemies with them a cumbersome chore. It didn't stop me from spending most of my playtime on the Steam Deck, but my time playing with a mouse and keyboard did make it clear that it is the intended way to play, making me long for a more elegant solution not afforded by some tinkering in the controls menu.
A lack of content isn't an issue here as it might have been with Suspicious Developments first breakout hit, Gunpoint. Tactical Breach Wizards is the largest and most ambitious game the studio has worked on yet, and the extra time it took to get here has certainly not been wasted. It presents familiar tropes of the tactical turn-based genre and removes a lot of the friction that acts as a barrier to entry, without sacrificing the fundamental thrill of formulating a perfect turn and executing it. Coupled with an incredibly personable cast that is brought to life through witty and hilariously written dialogue, and you'll find it hard to resist the urge to breach into battle just one more time after each well-deserved victory.
Black Myth: Wukong surprised me. Going in, I knew not to expect a souls-like, despite it seemingly sharing many of the genre's hallmarks. The game's Chinese developer, Game Science, has been adamant that it's not a souls-like, preferring to define it more generically as an action-RPG. This is at least partially accurate, as Black Myth: Wukong is definitely not a souls-like. What I wasn't expecting was for it to be essentially a lengthy boss rush. It's not uncommon to go from one boss fight into another and then another, and it's in these elaborate battles where Black Myth: Wukong shines. The moments in between, however, aren't quite as strong, sometimes devolving into aimless tedium. But its satisfying combat and unique variety of boss fights mostly manages to overcome these flaws.
Black Myth: Wukong's story is based on the classic Chinese novel Journey to the West. Originally published in the 16th century during the Ming dynasty, the epic saga has proven to be incredibly long-lasting and influential since its release, inspiring everything from Ninja Theory's Enslaved: Odyssey to the West to Akira Toriyama's Dragon Ball manga. Black Myth: Wukong's take on the enduring tale is set sometime after the original story while still retaining many of its characters. Names like Zhu Bajie, Kang Jinlong, and the Bull Demon King will be instantly recognizable to anyone familiar with Journey to the West, even if certain characters' allegiances sometimes differ from the source material.
You play as a mute monkey, known as the Destined One, who shares more than a few similarities with the titular Sun Wukong--a legendary simian commonly known as the Monkey King. Sun Wukong is a prominent character in Journey to the West, so your unexpected presence is one of the game's central mysteries. Are you the Monkey King reincarnated, or perhaps one of his clones breaking off on your own quest? The answer isn't the most surprising, but it makes for a thrilling conclusion to the adventure.
The rest of the game's story didn't quite resonate with me, however. It's clear that Game Science had the freedom to deviate from the source material, but I still felt lost when trying to follow every facet of Black Myth: Wukong's narrative. It helps that each of the game's six chapters revolves around a relatively self-contained tale, dealing with universal human emotions such as love, hate, and greed. Yet it still feels like a story best experienced by those with intimate knowledge of the source material. References and concepts from Journey to the West and other Chinese mythology frequently flew over my head, so I found it difficult to invest in both the broader picture and its more intimate yarns. It's a shame, because finally seeing a Chinese take on a Chinese story as classic as this one is inherently fascinating. A lot of people have only experienced the story through the lens of another country's adaptation, and it's clearly been treated here with a lot of care and attention to detail. There are moments I love--like every encounter you have with a headless monk who serenades you with a Sanxian--and the character designs are universally fantastic, but the story is hard to latch onto if you're unfamiliar with Journey to the West or Chinese folklore and mythology in general.
Fortunately, one of Black Myth: Wukong's greatest strengths is how it weaves Sun Wukong's wonderous abilities into the framework of its fast-paced combat. The Monkey King is known for wielding Ruyi Jingu Bang, a magical staff that can shrink and extend at will. He can also create clones of himself from a single strand of hair, freeze enemies in place with a point from his finger, and shapeshift into a vast array of different forms. All of these abilities are represented in the game, expertly showcasing the Monkey King's prodigious combat capabilities. By executing combos with the staff, you'll see it elongate to bludgeon enemies with extra ferocity before reverting back to its original size. You can also make use of various spells that consume mana and operate on cooldowns. These include the ability to generate clones of yourself to give enemies more than a single target to focus on, and the use of a magic spell called Immobilize that lets you freeze your foes in place for a few seconds, giving you time to wail on them while they're helplessly trapped or using the opportunity to take a step back and heal.
Shapeshifting is a significant part of your arsenal, too, as you're able to transform into specific previously defeated enemies and utilize their different movesets and weapons. One of these transformations is called Red Tides, which you acquire early on after defeating the giant wolf Guangzhi. By shapeshifting into this ferocious canine, you're able to wield his flaming glaive to inflict burn damage on your opponents as you twirl around and pull off a variety of combos. What's more, each transformation has its own health bar, essentially providing you with an extra life. Once this health bar is extinguished or you've used up all of your Might by performing various attacks, you transform back into your usual self.
While shapeshifting and using quick-use spells to freeze enemies and overwhelm them with clones is rewarding, the core of Black Myth: Wukong's combat lies in its unusual combo system. Light attacks are essentially a means to build Focus points, which are spent to unleash different heavy attacks. With enough upgrades, you can eventually bank up to three of these points at a time, and the game's entire combat economy is built on farming Focus and cashing it in as soon as possible to deal significant damage. Light attacks do feel fairly weightless as a result, which is further emphasized by the small amount of damage they chip off each boss's health bar. The game's sense of impact comes from executing a full combo, especially if you're able to transition from a light combo into a heavy finisher. In these moments, your staff begins to glow red-hot as it hurtles through the air and collides with an almighty thump. These attacks deal a ton of damage and regularly stagger enemies in satisfying fashion. Finding openings and using Immobilize to give yourself time to pull off these combos is the basis of Black Myth: Wukong's combat. Once you're able to keep a combo going while mixing in dodges and utilizing your bag of tricks, each boss fight becomes a frenetic and exhilarating dance to the death.
As an elaborate boss rush, Black Myth: Wukong lives and dies on the quality of its boss battles, and for the most part, they're excellent. Each of the game's six chapters offers a rogue's gallery of thrilling foes to fight. Known as Yaoguai, these mythological beasts range from a giant black bear to a traditional Chinese dragon, a blood-spattered tiger, and many, many more in between. Blocking is not part of your extensive repertoire, and the only form of parrying is limited to a magic spell on a cooldown timer, so you need to excel at dodging to make it through each fight alive. This might sound intimidating if you don't usually play tough action-RPGs, but outside of a couple of boss fights in later chapters, the game isn't particularly challenging. This is coming from a souls-like veteran, so my gauge on what's hard might be slightly skewed, but I defeated a number of the game's bosses on my very first attempt. I still wouldn't say Black Myth: Wukong is approachable, however, as its toughest bosses still pose a considerable threat, and there aren't any difficulty options. The ramp-up to its most challenging moments is just more forgiving.
Whether you're fighting on a frozen lake surrounded by snow-capped mountains or sloshing through a shallow pool of blood, these battles against the Yaoguai are frequent triumphs. There's a sense of balletic elegance to its best boss fights, mixing martial arts influences with supernatural flair to create these tense and awe-inspiring encounters. You're often challenged to learn attack patterns to nail the timing on dodges and figure out where openings occur so you can get a combo in. But there are also opportunities to be strategic with your abilities, too. Immobilize is ineffective against certain bosses, so you might go for a different spell, or vary your transformations to attack an enemy's elemental weakness. Even if I sometimes found bosses relatively easy, that didn't take away from their thrills, while the toughest among them were often met with a pounding heart and palpable elation when I finally managed to emerge victorious.
The game's ability to produce this sensation is where Black Myth: Wukong feels most like a souls-like. There are more obvious similarities, such as a checkpoint system that respawns enemies when you rest, and a flask for healing that has a finite number of charges and can be refilled at said checkpoints. Yet aside from this, Game Science wasn't lying when it said it wasn't making a souls-like. This is none more obvious than in the game's level design. For the most part, your path through each chapter is linear, albeit with a couple of forks in the road leading to optional bosses and crafting materials used for brewing potions and forging armor. Occasionally it opens up with more-expansive areas featuring numerous branching paths, but progression is still usually confined to a singular route, so linearity is present even when it doesn't initially appear to be. This isn't inherently bad, but the level design is straightforward and unimaginative--issues that are further compounded by an abundance of jarring invisible walls and a jump that's functionally useless for most of the game. Throw in only a smattering of enemies that don't pose much of a threat, and the sections between boss fights feel disappointingly sparse and languid.
I also need to mention a moment near the end of the game that stumped me for several hours because the solution is incredibly specific but not at all obvious, especially when there's nothing else like it in the game. This sapped the momentum from the final chapter and had me questioning whether I had encountered a game-breaking bug or was just being ignorant.
Each environment you explore does at least look fantastic. Whether you're running through a bamboo forest grove punctuated by falling leaves and dense vegetation, entering a spider-infested estate illuminated by the faint glow of moonlight, or planting your feet on the sun-kissed rocks of a craggy canyon, Black Myth: Wukong is frequently beautiful. It ran exceptionally well for me on PC, too, compiling shaders at the outset to prevent the dreaded Unreal Engine 5 stutter.
Black Myth: Wukong is an uneven game where the highlights often outnumber the lowlights. Its triumphant boss battles and fast-paced combat make up for the stale moments in between, where bland level design and a scarcity of enemies will have you clamoring for the next face-off with a deadly Yaoguai. I appreciate that it's not just another souls-like in what is now a crowded genre, and the choice to go for a boss gauntlet is unexpected and, honestly, quite refreshing. It's disappointing that it falters outside of its cinematic clashes against mighty beasts, but designing this many rousing boss battles while avoiding a sense of fatigue is no mean feat and deserves praise.
Dustborn is written as though its creators heard complaints like "Keep politics out of games" and defiantly went in the opposite direction. It is one of the most overtly political and, more specifically, unapologetically leftist games I've ever played, and that uncommonly brazen setup makes its early hours very interesting, but it falls apart in the second half due to monotonous combat and a final few chapters that undo the stronger first half.
A near-future dystopian and plainly fascistic America, fractured into territories following a second civil war, plays the sea-to-shining-sea enemy of a group of bleeding hearts on an undercover road trip to fuel a better tomorrow. With a punk-rock cover story aiding its diverse collection of cast-offs from the new America, and gameplay mechanics akin to a Telltale game, Dustborn checks so many of the boxes of a game I'd normally adore. So it was surprising to me, though ultimately not difficult to explain, when the game left me feeling empty and wanting.
Dustborn's cel-shaded comic-book art direction is captivating right away, and like the broken world it colors in, it immediately caught my eye. I didn't mind, at first, when the opening scene featured the four main heroes being rather annoying. I figured this would be their arc, from awkward pals barely dodging the game's federal force of corrupt cops to defiant leaders toppling tyranny nationwide. I was in for the ride… until I wasn't.
I can't say there was one exact moment that turned me away from the group. In hindsight, it feels like it was more of a slow burn. The game's earliest of its 15 or so hours are heavy on the world-building and I found much of it fascinating. Dustborn plays with an alternate history in which JFK's wife, Jackie, was killed in Dealey Plaza instead of him. This caused Kennedy to crack down on crime with a new national police force called Justice, which, in a manner reminiscent of the slow-boiled frog, reshaped the country for the worse without it ever being obvious enough to inspire a strong resistance.
As people grew more complacent toward fascist ideals, things culminated in a 2000s-era broadcast event that spread disinformation like a virus, thus expediting the country's march toward civil war, but also inadvertently creating Anomals (derogatorily called Deviants) who emerged from the event with various new abilities.
It reads like the setup to a cool book I'd love to read, and it works just as well as an adventure game for a while. I love the way the game depicts its a post-truth society. In an early section, it's explained that disinformation floats in the atmosphere, like a virus on a crowded train, and people can become sick from it if they are exposed. It makes them hostile, mean-spirited, and even drives them to espouse racist, sexist, or other troubling views.
Here is where it becomes obvious--if the game's earlier way of introducing characters' pronouns didn't do it for you--that this is a game made by leftists, about leftists, and very likely for leftists. It is a game that knows when angry young men tweet about wanting no politics in their games, they usually only mean politics with which they don't agree, and so it feels designed in a way that will knowingly, though not exactly purposely, irritate them with exactly those politics. It doesn't pull punches in that regard, and surely many anger merchants will take the bait once Dustborn hits stores. Funnily, when you hear fuzzy snippets of disinformation in the air, they're always regurgitating right-wing talking points on subjects like climate change denial, xenophobia, or even QAnon and Pizzagate.
Though Dustborn does eventually attack the opposite end of the sociopolitical spectrum--you can't really be a leftist without fighting other leftists, right?--it is, by and large, a story that villainizes right-wing fascists, but notably only pities their supporters. It's presented as a mirror to our modern-day reality; its view of people who fall for right-wing charlatans is patronizing, but also sincere, as though it's saying we genuinely ought to feel sorry for such people as the conditions that drove them to be misled are, to some extent, not their fault. It's definitely a game that could only exist because of the trajectory of the US as it stands today. Despite its alternate history framework, it pulls from real life quite a bit. Portions of the banter during combat even reference some of the dumbest things former President Trump has said.
Though those last few paragraphs may well upset some readers across the aisle, I want to emphasize that all of what I just described are the game's coolest parts. I not only have no qualms with the team building a world that reflects its politics, but I also greatly appreciate how thoughtful some of it is. Despite the fun it makes of far- (and even not-so-far-) right thinkers, it sincerely strives for empathy and suggests that it's righteous to help those people come back to reality, rather than leave them to wither away in a cradle of conspiracy theories.
But just because I agree with the game's politics doesn't mean it's a good game.
A lot of Dustborn's extensive cast of characters focuses primarily on Anomals, including the playable character, Pax, who finds herself equipped with the ability to influence and even hurt people with words. Most of her allies have powers too, like Sai who is extremely strong, or Noam who also has a gift of gab, but theirs leans toward getting someone to calm down, whereas Pax's are all built on negative emotions that stir people into a fervor. Some of these abilities of the group even lean into therapy terms that have gone mainstream, such as triggering and gaslighting, and a late-game ability actually lets you cancel someone, though each of these abilities is recontextualized for more familiar party-based combat mechanics.
For example, triggering your allies means buffing their damage for a moment, and Pax's ability to sow discord turns the enemies against each other. You can also hoax enemies, which makes them think they're on fire, thereby turning reality's fake news problem into a spell-casting maneuver. This is all pretty clever, but none of it feels good to play.
Pax's abilities are used in the game's shoddy combat sections and combined with her allies' moves on the fly. This is done with real-time third-person combat, though the game pauses so long as you have your ability wheel open, which you unlock by performing enough melee combos in the meantime, giving it all a slight hybrid style akin to some Dragon Age games. The group regularly battles colorful raiders and anonymous secret police as they trek from the west coast, now known as Pacifica, to Nova Scotia, where their subversive mission is meant to conclude.
However, combat feels stiff, and the camera routinely does not track Pax's movements well. After a few encounters, this created a Pavlovian response in me in which Pax would equip her baseball bat for a combat section, and I would audibly groan. The idea of language being used as a weapon is cool in itself. It fits perfectly with the game's themes of influence and empathy, but as a third-person action mechanic, it's one of Dustborn's weakest parts. I was grateful when, after an early combat scenario, the game asked me if I would rather have more or less combat going forward. I chose the latter, and even then, there was too much, but it's nice to know it could've been worse.
That said, despite my wish not to engage in much combat, the game is hardly better when you're not. Animations are lifeless even outside of combat, and this is partly why I found it hard to connect with any of the game's characters. Telltale's The Walking Dead won awards despite its lifeless character models, but that was 12 years ago. Dustborn runs back similarly janky character expressions and movements to the point that it hurts the actors' performances, the game's light puzzle-solving elements, and even just exploring in general. Games like this one that belong in the lineage of those from Telltale and Quantic Dream have, in some cases, moved well beyond such archaic animations by now, but Dustborn is distractingly stuck in the past.
Dustborn frequently adds new outcasts to the group during their travels, but by the end, I was lacking even one who made me emotionally invested. I spent the time getting to know each of them; I checked in with them by the campfire each night, and I gifted them found items, such as fancy new dice for Eli, who spends his days on the road hosting tabletop RPGs with the group.
For the most part, they are well-realized and three-dimensional, but the poor animations are buffed by jarring tonal shifts that alter the game from light-hearted ragtag adventure to super-serious political drama, back and forth the whole way. As a result, I never connected with anybody on the tour bus. Because they routinely squirm out of near-death or imprisonment without consequences, it soon became the norm for me to view their obstacles as little more than time killers, which left me uninvested in their mission.
It's not that I was left wondering who these characters were by the end. In fact, none of them ever stops talking. The game is so thick with banter that there are rarely any moments of silence. They are always chatting with each other, and as Pax, you are almost always able to jump in and join them whenever you want.
On the one hand, this is impressive, as it feels like you can virtually double the length of the game just by opting into talking to everyone at every opportunity, even if it does conflict with the plot point that the group is always lacking free time. You learn a lot about each of your allies; you shape your relationships with them, all of which determine how the story unfolds and where each character ends up--some may not even survive. So there is at least the illusion of stakes--though a partial replay didn't suggest major differences in the saga--and there is obvious depth. And yet I just wanted them all to be quiet for a second. Just one second.
They talk so much that other voice lines often cut off their voice lines in an unnatural way because they'll be blabbering on and on, and you'll trigger a cutscene or interact with something that halts them mid-sentence so they can say something else instead. It takes a strength of the game and, through subpar implementation, makes it janky. I haven't heard a cacophony of breathless progressives this grating since I saw Death Cab for Cutie last summer--and I live in Portland.
Dustborn also presented a few technical issues, including a game-breaking bug that caused me to lose all my progress on PC. This bug has since been patched, I'm told, but it seemed not to apply retroactively to my saved data, so while you apparently won't deal with it post-launch, I had to start the game over after several hours. When I did, the game crashed on me four times in my playthrough, though thankfully the auto-saving feature meant this was just a minor annoyance each time.
The group's cover story for traversing the hostile state is that they're a touring punk rock band, and the game even has you perform their shows several times using a Rock Band-style mini-game that is decent and enjoyable, except for its underexplained scoring system. But their music is so sonically tame and decidedly not punk rock beyond the ethos expressed in its lyrics. One of the reasons I was drawn to this game was a sincere desire to hear the original punk rock songs promised within, but there really aren't any to be found. Instead, they're a pop act, maybe pop-punk at best, and that missing aggression in their sound was a disappointment. Some of the game's other lackluster parts are disappointing, but this one is confusing, first and foremost.
The band's incendiary lyrics should likely get them locked up in such a hostile land, but the only time this ever came up in my playthrough was when a Justice cop passively warned me that folks in America don't take kindly to such songs--even though the song was overtly about progressives outliving their political enemies and inheriting a world they can then make better. It seemed like I should get more than a slap on the wrist since the story made a point of telling me how unforgiving the cops are.
That's an excellent example of how it all unravels, too, as it illustrates the chasm between the setup and the execution. The history that Dustborn introduces is engrossing at first. I read every document I could, down to the small signs taped to a fridge, or the packaging on the jerky; I interacted with every poster or book to see what other signs of its alternate history I could find. And in its comic-book art style, it all looked as interesting as its setting first sounded.
But over the course of the game, and particularly in its final few chapters, a story already soaked in metaphors--some better than others--positively drowns in them. It eventually goes so far off the rails that its thoughtful early chapters feel written by entirely different human beings. I'd be more forgiving of this narratively chaotic final act if I were attached to the characters--I like Lost Season 6, after all. In Lost's case, the events could be silly, but at least I'd have my people. In Dustborn, however, I never really had them to begin with, so I was left with nothing to latch onto. Dustborn's moral compass points to true north, but before long, both its story and gameplay go south.

As the name implies, Farewell North is a game about saying goodbye--to a place, to people, and to the lifestyle that those things represent. Though the narrative adventure is short, it packs a lot of characterization and resonance into that time, with only occasional stumbling blocks to blunt the impact of the experience.
You play as Chesley, or Ches for short: a sweet-natured border collie who had once worked as a sheepdog on a farm in the Scottish highlands. Your human companion, a young woman named Cailey, ventured off her family farm and into the city but was summoned back when her rural mother became ill. Cailey helped with the farm for a while, relying on Ches' herding skills, and then when her mother passed away, they moved back to the city together, where Ches became a homebound pet rather than a working dog. This game captures what seems to be Cailey's first time coming back to the area since then.
On one level, this is a game about loss, and how it manifests in different ways. Cailey lost her mother, and as you explore the Scottish highlands with her, you get bittersweet reflections about her farm life and how it felt to slowly lose her mother to a terminal illness. Though it's less pointed, you also get the sense that Ches lost her home when she became a city dog, so this return to the highlands is a reunion of sorts.
That sense of coming back home is what makes a lot of the moment-to-moment gameplay feel light and joyful, even when it's touching on very serious subject matter. Ches is obviously thrilled to be back in the wild with the freedom to explore wide open fields, herd sheep, and generally commune with nature. Likewise, Cailey is reflecting on both moments of sadness and joy with her mother, the land, and Ches.
The core of the experience is solving a series of environmental puzzles, though these are as light and airy as the environment itself. The puzzles aren't especially mentally taxing, which usually gives the whole affair a relaxing feel that lets you focus squarely on the narrative.
I say usually, though, because while it does have a calm, relaxed feel when everything is working properly, I did occasionally run into a situation where it wasn't entirely clear what to do. Often puzzles come down to crossing under a downed tree or other similar piece of nature that will change the environment in some subtle way, and if you happen to miss one of these, you're liable to be very confused about the path forward. At one point I was stuck for quite a while, and when I finally did discover the way, I wasn't entirely sure what I had been doing wrong before. I just stumbled my way into it, blissfully unaware.
This is partly due to the visuals, which are mostly presented with a muted gray color palette that becomes colorful in key moments and as a response to certain gameplay segments--for example, the area just around a herd of sheep will be colorful, which makes them stand out from the background. This is important for illustrating the central concept: that Ches' time with Cailey is restoring color and joy to their world, but it can also sometimes make the environment hard to read.
For that reason, the game is at its best when the puzzles take a back seat and the game instead relishes in the views of nature, like an early moment when the music crescendos as Ches runs through a field that has had its color restored. It also excels at abstracting the environment in key moments to show you the world through a dog's eyes, like the streaks of traffic lights making an impassable wall, or a sea of intimidating, faceless strangers who appear to be trying to snatch you, but who are actually Cailey's friends and community helping to look for you.
Farewell North is a grounded, slice-of-life game given some fantastical elements through Ches' unique perspective. As it reaches its emotional climax, it becomes a stirring meditation on the role pets play in their humans' lives as comfort and support, and likewise, the role that humans play in the lives of their pets as providers and protectors. While its waypointing can be occasionally frustrating, it's a sweet, emotionally resonant experience that will stick with you, and maybe prompt a little extra cuddle time with your own pets.
SteamWorld Heist 2 marks the seventh game in the SteamWorld franchise, which has built itself more as an anthology than a series. The name is a playground for different ideas, loosely connected around a cartoon-robot aesthetic, rather than a connected universe of familiar gameplay structures and stories. Heist 2 marks only the second direct sequel, after SteamWorld Dig 2. Since Dig was SteamWorld's breakthrough, it seems significant that the second true sequel is going to the more-modest cult-hit SteamWorld Heist. But the proof is in the pudding, as SteamWorld Heist 2 is a massive leap over the first game, expanding on virtually all of its systems without overcomplicating them or compromising its charm.
Like the first game, SteamWorld Heist 2 defies easy categorization, as it really only plays like itself. You and your band of Steambots go on missions to tightly enclosed indoor spaces, and take part in turn-based tactical combat. While there is cover and abilities with cooldowns like you might find in a typical XCOM-like, the 2D perspective shifts more than just your point-of-view--in comparison to its genre contemporaries, Heist 2 plays extremely differently. Rather than flanking around enemies, there's a huge emphasis on verticality, as well as lining up trick-shots using laser sight-like aimlines to bounce your projectiles off the walls or objects to hit an enemy ducking behind cover. And like the first game, you can pick up bags of optional loot, typically including one especially well-hidden or well-guarded piece of epic loot, and then head for the evacuation point to end the mission. How long you stay to grab every last piece of loot is often pressed by an escalating alarm system, creating a nice tension between risk and reward.
Where SteamWorld Heist 2 builds on the first game's structure is through a variety of new systems, each of which feels full-fledged in itself and complements the existing loop. Primary among these is a new job-class system, which is defined by your weaponry. Any Steambot can equip any job by simply switching their primary weapon during the mission loadout, and the requisite experience points they earn in that mission will go toward the equipped job. Each job has five levels to unlock, with a sequence of powerful abilities becoming available throughout.
The real fun is in mixing and matching the abilities you've already mastered to unlock new combinations that can feel gloriously overpowered. The Reaper, for example, is usually restricted to SMGs, which have a shorter aimline than most other jobs. But you can master its Harvest skill, which lets you continue to take shots at enemies as long as you're delivering fatal damage, and then equip it onto a stronger class like Boomer or a long-range class like Sniper, allowing one unit to potentially clear a whole room. Similarly, you can take the Flanker, a shotgun-wielding class that's especially mobile, and apply its abilities to a Sniper to give them access to better vantage points. Or you can take a Sniper's detailed aim-sight and give it to a Boomer to see where their rockets' splash damage will hit. Toying with these combinations is a real treat, and vital for mastering some of the late-game challenges.
One point I especially loved about the job system is how it handles excess experience points. Typically in a game with job classes, mastering a job presents you with an annoying choice: Stick with your mastered job to give you the best shot at completing difficult story missions but gain no experience, or switch to another job to gain experience but become much weaker as a result. This softly pushes players toward going back and grinding with other jobs, which isn't terribly fun. In SteamWorld Heist 2, however, you can keep your mastered jobs equipped, and excess experience points earned go into that character's reserve pool. The pool is then automatically applied to the next job you equip and complete a mission with. So you can keep your elite-level Sniper for critical story missions, and bank the experience you earn along the way, then switch to another job for an older and easier mission to apply all that banked experience and catch up with a different job. This is a brilliant solution to a common design problem, and it sands off a major rough edge of most job-class systems.
Your capacity to equip extra abilities is determined by your Cogs--slots for non-primary abilities. You'll have a certain amount of Cogs by default, but this also plays into other systems. Certain equipment will give you more Cog slots if you want to cook up some wicked combinations, or they can be used for other utilities like enhanced armor, sidearms or grenades, or healing packs. And even within a single job, the weapon variety is expansive--one SMG might offer more burst-fire but won't ricochet off walls, while another may offer armor-piercing or healing properties. It's incredibly flexible and lets you build out your team to suit your playstyle.
Aside from upgrading your individual crew members with jobs and equipment, you'll also earn special currency to spend in your home base, which will go toward advancing your party in other ways. You can choose to spend it on individual, unique abilities for each of your party members, or job-class upgrades that will be applied to any bot equipped with that job. My MVP was Daisy, whose ultimate unique ability reduces the Cog cost of all abilities, making her the ideal tester for different job combinations.
You can also use that currency to enhance the submarine, your floating home base that is also your roving battle station. As opposed to the first game, Heist 2 all takes place on a single planet almost entirely covered in water. Your submarine will transport you to missions, but it will also take part in exciting real-time naval battles against enemy ships, or can be used to explore and find hidden nooks with their own special caches of equipment. As you unlock more submarine equipment slots, it becomes almost as customizable as your characters, letting you determine which types of weapons to use, whether you want to prioritize speed or strength, and so on. The submarine combat feels like a minigame but it's nicely fleshed out and a good change of pace from the regular mission combat.
The water-logged planet is also a major element in the story. The water supply--the lifeblood of steam-powered robots--is getting corrupted and leading to a condition known as the Rust. The dominant factions are the high-powered and shiny Dieselbot Navy, who pride themselves on not needing steam power, and the Rattlers, a grim robot cult whose members have started systematically replacing their metal parts with bones, which don't rust.
The main protagonist is Captain Quincy Leeway, a one-armed Steambot living in the shadow of his mother, a legendary captain herself. Most of the story revolves around Leeway learning how to forge his own path under the weight of those expectations, but he's also not an active participant in missions. Instead, he's the voice in the earpiece of your other mission-bound bots, giving instructions and providing context for the missions. You do play as Leeway when exploring your ship or docking with a store, or solving the occasional simple exploration puzzle. And while Leeway starts out simply looking for a score, it's not long before the story turns toward uncovering the secret of the Rust corruption, as well as getting caught between the warring factions. This is ultimately a tale about a ragtag group of ne'er-do-well pirates who become a family, and while it can be a little dialogue-heavy in rare moments, it's in service of a sweet story.
As you progress through the world and uncover the map--with an ever-so-satisfying cloud-clearing animation as you do--you'll find certain areas ability-locked for your submarine. That gating comes down to yet another system: your local reputation. To earn a specific new piece of submarine equipment, you'll often need to accrue a certain level of reputation by completing missions in the area. Usually this means either perfecting a few missions, or merely completing several of them. Your reputation can be cashed in for special "bounty" rewards when you rest at an inn. Resting is the only way to regain access to party members you've already used, so maximizing your reputation and bounty rewards means having a deep bench of robots to complete multiple missions between each stay at the inn. It's just one more way Heist 2 smartly pushes you toward maximizing your efficiency with another tactical wrinkle.
What's most impressive about all of these disparate systems is how well they synergize with each other, and how they remain easily understandable and not overwhelming. Like a well-crafted Steambot, each part and gear of SteamWorld Heist 2 attaches just-so to another, with every piece of the device contributing and feeding into the function of two or three other parts. The result is a game that plays with clockwork precision from start to finish.
I didn't expect I'd review two games about pied-pipering friendly and fantastical animals around a beautiful world in the span of just a few weeks, but following the recent release of Flock, a somewhat similar game has arrived. Creatures of Ava, however, is a much bigger and more ambitious game, and usually reaches the surprisingly high benchmarks it sets for itself. From a pair of relatively unknown studios, this open-world creature-saving game is touching, gorgeous, and ultimately serves as one of the best family games of the year.
Creatures of Ava stars Vic, a researcher who arrives on the planet Ava to help complete an ark project that intends to rescue the world's animals from the withering, a planet-wide infection that is slowly corrupting life itself. Even before I knew what kind of game Creatures of Ava would be, I was taken aback by how pretty it is. It's one of the best-looking games I've played in 2024, with a vibrant color palette of bright oranges, pinks, blues, and more that is immediately striking.
Additionally, the game's way of carrying players through a story that involves four distinct open-world sections, each with its own biomes and aesthetics, means new surprises and sights are regularly debuting. I was genuinely excited to conclude each chapter just so I could see what remarkable vistas the game would unveil next.
It doesn't just look pretty, either; it feels alive. Though Vic can sprint endlessly, I sometimes slowed myself down just to soak in my environment--to listen to animal calls from the lush magenta jungle or stand atop massive yellow flowers in the swamplands and watch the local fauna from a distance.
I couldn't do that forever, of course. The mission is to extract a great number of animals from the planet and onto a BioArk meant to give the planet's various species a second chance at life, a sort of futuristic take on the biblical story of Noah's Ark. For Vic, this becomes an interesting and even welcomingly mature internal conflict. Is it enough to simply save a few of each animal? Is it possible to instead save the entire planet? As Vic grapples with her company's intentions and her own limitations, the local human-like denizens interact with her in various ways, too.
Initially, the game's premise seemed like a minefield for problematic tropes, like a savior arriving in a land of "natives" and fixing everything for them, or an animal-friendly game that routinely depicts exploitative treatment of the animals. I was really impressed to see how the story rejects these. Not only does it seem to be aware of the pitfalls and mindfully avoid them, but it does so while adding some interesting wrinkles to both the story and gameplay.
This isn't the climate change allegory it first appears to be, and even as other surprises are found along the way, I'd have felt sure that would at least be true--but by the end, it's not. Even the typical "cozy" game cards weren't played, other than the ability to pet any animal in the game. Creatures of Ava is a lovely family game, but it doesn't shy from hitting you in the gut pretty hard in its final act, and it does it in ways you won't see coming.
Its large cast of characters is well-written, though sometimes poorly performed. I could often hear the splicing together of dialogue which was distracting, albeit not terribly annoying, and some line reads don't carry their intended weight. Fortunately, the game actually benefits from most dialogue being text only. The writing of many unique and more human-like denizens of Ava comes off stronger for it, as the game's meditative, comical, or argumentative group leaders, and others, aren't sullied by inconsistent voicework.
But more than the mesmerizing visuals or the heartfelt story, it's the moment-to-moment gameplay that surprised me most of all. Creatures of Ava repurposes years of action-adventure mechanics to create a nonviolent world that is still full of action and compelling progression. Its combat system is built entirely around evasion and defense. As Vic seeks to cleanse the animals with a magical staff she receives from her new allies, the corruption has them on the offensive, but Vic's entire moveset consists of dodging, leaping, rolling, and otherwise stifling the animals' attacks, but never paying back any damage in kind.
The firehose-like staff takes time to purify each animal, so each combat encounter becomes a round of crowd control, as you must avoid damage until the animals are freed of the infection. A clever touch to this system is how that hose-like stream of cleansing power allows for other animals to get caught up in it too, should they cross the stream, thereby creating a chain of what you could arguably call playful exorcisms.
The camera does often get in the way in these encounters, as it doesn't automatically keep Vic centered when animals run off the screen to flank her. This makes it feel like I need a third hand--or at least an extra thumb--to steer the camera while I also move, fire the cleansing magic, and use her other abilities.
Different animals have unique attack patterns and different defenses, and Vic's abilities grow over time to maintain stride with the always-evolving list of "enemies," including tools that help her slow, lift, freeze, and more quickly cleanse the creatures. None of these things are done in a way that harms the animals, evidenced by the fact that they don't even have traditional HP bars; instead, their infection levels are quantified and drained as you succeed. Flipping traditional third-person combat on its head in these ways feels both inventive and vital to the story's themes, and I'm really grateful the team found a way to eschew long-held video game traditions of pummeling the badness out of an enemy.
It's also important to take photos of the animals, both with and without infection, as it reveals details about each species, including their abilities. This process results in a Pokedex-like device brimming with information and your custom photos, which makes it fun trying to line up the perfect shot even if a creature happens to be charging at your kneecaps. Once cleansed, Vic can play melodies that train the animals to follow her, at which point she can actually have them solve environmental platforming puzzles as needed, and eventually lead them to pick-up zones to cast them onto the ark.
None of the puzzles are especially difficult, but there's an enjoyable learning curve in observing an obstacle and figuring out which animals you may need to charm in order to advance further. However, I did occasionally struggle with navigating the world, as its map can be a bit confusing, and some areas can only be accessed by specific routes that are liable to be forgotten or missed.
That said, this wandering was not entirely in vain, as the four open-world hubs are littered with sights to see around every corner, be they lore-filled collectibles, upgrades to Vic's health, stamina, and inventory space, or more ways to level her up and unlock more skill points to spend on abilities. I beat the 11-hour game in two sittings because, despite its imperfections, I found it hard to put down.
Many of the side missions are especially memorable to me, as they allowed me to get to know even more characters, like an elder of a village who could no longer make the trek to a beloved waterfall. A simple photo mission thus became a much more memorable act of kindness, as they were so grateful when I returned with a picture of the locale for them to appreciate. There are many missions like this one, and I spent the time to see a lot of them through. Creatures of Ava is gifted with a heart as vibrant as its world.
Thanks to its blend of platforming, puzzles, and "combat," all set in a colorful world, Creatures of Ava reminds me of a kind of action-adventure game that is seldom made anymore. It's both nostalgic for yesteryear while also creatively reinventing traditional elements of the genre. It routinely defies tropes in every corner of its world, yet still feels like the sort of game that is approachable, familiar, and easy to love. With a story that goes harder than one might expect and gameplay that routinely throws new tools and challenges in front of you, Creatures of Ava is surely one of the year's coolest surprises.
Your first task in Thank Goodness You're Here! is to answer the question, "A'tha from Tarn?" Depending on your response, the game's menus and subtitles will either display in English or the local dialect, changing words like "Options" to "Faff" and "Continue game" to "Keep gu'in." If this rather odd choice hasn't already given it away, Thank Goodness You're Here! is possibly the most quintessentially British game ever made--specifically, northern England and the town of Barnsworth, a fictional town right near the very real town of Barnsley. Developed by Coal Supper--a two-person team who grew up in the post-industrial town--this absurdist comedy "slapformer" is a genuinely hilarious romp. It won't appeal to everyone and can be finished over a few cups of tea, but there aren't many games that have managed to plaster such a huge smile on my face.
The game's mouthful of a title is uttered by a few of the game's characters, including a young fan of Barnsworth's local football club. "Thank Goodness You're Here!" he exclaims as you leap through an open window and into a kitchen adorned with red and white scarves and framed pictures of the team's players. Sitting at the dining table with a cup of dark tea, he pleads with you to procure him some milk. He'd go himself, but he's terribly "milk shy." So off you pop to the local farm, where Bessie the cow requires a bag of chips--wrapped in newspaper, of course--to perk her up before she can produce any milky goodness. The local chip shop, Marge's Chippo, is the place to go, but after recently fixing the deep fat fryer, the queue is far too long and you don't have time to wait. This leads to another trek across town, with more whimsical hijinks abound before you eventually get your hands on that precious, precious milk.
This is the general gist of Thank Goodness You're Here! If it sounds like you're simply running around performing a series of fetch quests, it's actually much more involved than that. You play as a tiny traveling salesman who's arrived in town for a meeting with the mayor. Instead of sitting in the waiting room until they're ready to see you, you decide to venture out into town where the locals are all too eager to give you a series of increasingly odd jobs. As you explore the streets of Barnsworth and help out its wacky denizens, your antics leave an indelible mark on the place, opening up new areas to probe as you're given more and more zany tasks to complete.
There's some light 2D platforming involved, and this is mixed with larger 3D environments that you're free to wander around as you literally slap everything and everyone in sight. The term "slapformer" quickly makes sense, then, since slapping and jumping are the only ways to interact with the world. Hitting someone upside the head usually gets them talking, but there are also postboxes, pigeons, doors, vegetables, and traffic bollards to slap as well. Sometimes you'll simply destroy whatever you're slapping. Other times you might reveal a gag or the path forward. It's a bit like Untitled Goose Game in this regard, albeit more structured with specific quests to undertake as you cause chaos on Barnsworth's streets.
Getting from one area to another does feel a little clumsy at first. Progression is always achieved by moving to the right, but this also puts you in a circle so that you wrap back around the town. Essentially, you have to move forward in order to also go backward. This initially feels unintuitive but eventually begins to click into place through repetition (like jumping down a well to reach the fish shop), especially once you start noticing how each location changes on repeat visits. I do, however, wish there were a couple more areas just to flesh out the town even further and increase the game's longevity a tad.
It's hard to argue with the game's structure when it's as funny as it is, though. Absurdism and surrealism are common avenues for its humor, whether you're swimming through beer while a drunken bottle talks about downing a morning pint before getting out of bed, or going shopping at the local Price Shaggers supermarket with a talking hand that's stretched out for miles because its owner is bedbound. It's ridiculous, but it works because all of it starts somewhere grounded: a small Yorkshire town.
A lot of British comedy transcends borders. A lot of it doesn't. Thank Goodness You're Here! exists somewhere in the middle. If you're not from the UK or have never lived in the UK, some of its jokes are going to go over your head as it delves into common facts of British life and even Yorkshire-specific folklore. Yet for every specialized gag, there are dozens more that will tickle your funny bone regardless of your background. It's a game filled with outlandish euphemisms, drawing from Wallace and Gromit's cheeky approach to humor with a decidedly more adult spin. It can be gross, but also unabashedly silly and dark. And it's all brought to life with a vibrant art style that resembles a mashup between Adventure Time and classic British comics like The Beano, The Dandy, and Viz. The game's character designs are often just as comical as its writing, not to mention all of the visual gags.
The entire voice cast is also excellent, breathing further life into each of Barnsworth's residents. There's Herbert, a hapless gardener voiced by the ever-brilliant Matt Berry. "I've been sucking this pipe for days," he shares with you when you walk in on him fiddling with a hose. "Almost done, then I can get home to my puzzles," says a litter picker in a hi-viz jacket. "I love puzzles," he adds. There's also Jasper the Scottish handyman, who's always losing his tools and claiming they're stolen. You're witness to an awkward romance between Florence, the meat-counter girl at Big Ron's Big Pie shop, and the delivery boy from Mother Megg's Buttery Goods. After seeing the pub owner struggling to think of what to put on the "today's special" sign, you come back later and see that he eventually settled on "Drinks." From the voice acting to the writing to the characters and environmental designs, Coal Supper has crafted an incredible sense of place that persists even when things go off the rails.
It might be on the short side at around two hours in length, but Thank Goodness You're Here! barely wastes a single second of its absurd adventure. Not only is it consistently funny, but it also made me feel incredibly warm and nostalgic for the era of cartoons and comics I grew up with, even if it feels quite singular in its approach to both surreal and intimately familiar humor. It's not a game everyone will vibe with--such is the divisiveness of comedy in particular. But those who click with it are unlikely to find another game this year anywhere near as joyous.
To my surprise, the answer was yes. At first, I was simply expecting a one-to-one Madden reskin. Yet as soon as the first game started, the presentation and pageantry on display were quick indications that this was a brand-new ball game. EA Sports College Football 25 perfectly encapsulates what attending a college football game is like. Vibrant and viciously loud crowds, hundreds of university-specific walkouts and traditions, and uniquely designed stadiums make each school's ambiance give off its own air of distinct excitement.
That production isn't just for pre-rendered cutscenes, as EA Sports College Football 25 also looks impressive during its moment-to-moment gameplay. You can just about see every pore and bead of sweat running down players' skin as they bounce off each other, and movement and AI reactivity are much more realistic than what we've seen in Madden thus far.
One of the first examples of EA Sports College Football 25's improved movement can be seen in the running game. Halfbacks touch guards' backs and run through holes instead of butt-fumbling into them, and spin moves have weight and fluidity. On the other side of the ball, tackling has more dimensions than just hitting or missing. A heavy defensive end's hit is far more gruesome than a speedy cornerback's, just like it would be in reality.
The passing game also features sharp improvements, as the more intelligent AI--combined with the freeform placement pacing introduced in Madden 24--makes for some tight-window receptions. Corners can no longer be user-controlled right before the play and jump 20 feet in the air for an easy interception. Every pick in EA Sports College Football 25 is earned due to good coverage, playcalling, and ability.
While I don’t play it myself, it is also worth mentioning that My Ultimate Team (MUT) EA Sports College Football 25 has been added in. It is identical to what is in Madden, still placing plenty of focus and emphasis on microtransactions and pay-to-win gameplay. Anyone that enjoys it, regardless of this, isn’t going to be deterred from trying it out with college players instead of NFL stars.
Yet while EA Sports College Football 25 improves upon many of the foundations built via Madden, it also bears some of its burdens--especially the single-player career mode, Road to Glory. Everything about the mode is underwhelming, and it is easy to tell this is the case straight from the moment you begin.Instead of proving yourself as a high-school prospect as you did in NCAA Football 14, you simply choose your position and star rating at the outset. The higher the caliber of your player, the more chance you have at starting earlier. If you pick a lower-star recruit, you have to earn your spot. But while working your way up from the bottom sounds like it has the potential for a cool storyline, the process merely consists of playing the same minigames repeatedly in hopes that you eventually get playing time. Additionally, there isn't any story or commentary mentioning your rise to the top if you do so, meaning there is no point in picking anything less than a five-star player.
Once you get into the starting lineup, it is frustrating how little agency your character has, even if he's the star quarterback. Sure, it is understandable that the coach wouldn't give the entire playbook to his freshman QB, but not being able to audible out of a play and having a limited amount of Play Change points per game to make it so that there are three play options instead of just one is far too restrictive. As an optional means of increasing immersion, this would be fine, but the inability to turn off these restrictions is a considerable letdown.
Speaking of immersion, EA Sports College Football 25's attempt to replicate academia is also a miss. When not playing in a game, your character is allocated limited energy points toward certain activities. Depending on your choice, you'll get XP increases or modifiers that can be used in the game. It doesn't take long to figure out how to game the system, as you just need to max out Academics for the first half of the season and completely ignore the Brand section, which has no impact on the game. Once you do, the rest of the season can be spent building XP and leadership to unlock upgrade points and in-game buffs.
Scenarios sometimes occur via the form of a text message, but their boosts are rarely worth it, and their attempts at stories are half-hearted at best. The only one that did elicit a chuckle is a situation where you can be blocked by a female student for over-texting her about going to a party. Outside of that, the off-the-field experience is unremarkable. Worse than that, if you skip managing the activity, your player will be impacted negatively on the field via injuries or debuffs to stats. Thankfully, Dynasty mode is the polar opposite of Road to Glory.
Where Road to Glory feels like a barebones attempt at career mode, dynasty is a tapestry of planning and executing. Recruiting is considerably in-depth, as it takes into account specific player wants and needs and requires you to shape your team around them and invest time to land players. The amount of time and scholarships you have at your disposal are limited, so spending them scouting players you might not have a chance to sign is a roll of the dice.
In order to improve those chances, you can overcome dealbreakers, including school prestige and playstyle. It's a surprisingly intricate system, as you need to balance multiple players' needs during the recruiting process while also doing your best to win games during the season. The choice to pick an established coach or create your own is also surprisingly accommodating, considering how restrictive choice is in Road to Glory.
Choosing an established coach comes with the benefit of abilities and upgrades, like improved recruiting, that give you a head start. Comparatively, proving yourself and starting from the ground up allows you to customize your attributes and playstyle to fit how you like to play the game. This means you can allocate the upgrade points you receive from leveling up to any category in the skill tree instead of using whatever locked-in skill a pre-established coach has.
For those who enjoy a challenge, Dynasty mode also features consequences for your actions. Fail to live up to the expectations set by the contract, which is determined by school legacy, and you might just find yourself looking for a new job after three years. This realism makes for some pretty fun scenarios.
Just picture getting sacked by LSU and then bringing up an underdog school like Kennesaw State to the college playoffs and beating your old school to win the national title. It's this kind of vicarious scenario in EA Sports College Football 25 that can make a lot of the other frustrating aspects worth it. Hopefully, EA can continue to build upon this solid foundation while also fleshing out the aspects of the series to help separate it further from Madden and create a unique experience.
Sylvio: Black Waters might be the most under-the-radar third entry in a series I or perhaps even GameSpot has ever reviewed. The ghost-hunting series has been a deeply hidden gem in my mind for many years now, and Black Waters continues its winning streak. It keeps intact the best parts of the previous games while adding some new wrinkles and reviving some mechanics it had previously left behind. Not all of that works in its favor, but its strengths are so notable that it remains one of the year's best horror games.
In Sylvio: Black Waters, you play Juliette, a ghost hunter. In the previous two games, she spent her time in creepy fairgrounds and haunted houses, recording staticky electronic voice phenomena (EVP), and in the sequel, even capturing ghostly images, too. Black Waters makes that the focus once again, although this time, it does so in a setting so peculiar and unpredictable that it gives the game an element of science fiction.
At first, I thought the strange, Mars-like dreamworld, where everything is rust-colored and decorated as though some unseen landscaper is practicing a stream-of-consciousness exercise, would be difficult to get into. It was almost too alien, unlike the more earthly and relatable locales I explored in the earlier games. In those cases, it felt like a place I could in which I could find myself. Black Waters' setting doesn't have that trait, but it doesn't take long for it to reveal its own alluring creepiness.
Its shifting and labyrinthine space means you'll sometimes start in one of the game's five open-ish hubs with parts of the world upside down or perpendicular to where you find yourself, but as you crawl through crevices, climb dilapidated brick walls, and scale ladders, the world will shift, as though you're crawling on a sphere moving in the opposite direction of you. Despite how unfamiliar and dizzying the world is, I also never really got lost. It has a good way of subtly directing you through a level; you don't feel in control of its world, but neither are you stuck in place. It perpetually pulls you through.
The goal is to explore the world, discovering fragments of voices and videos belonging to the people who have seemingly come and gone before you arrived. Like in past Sylvio games, this audio design is Black Waters' greatest asset. Stroboskop is a tiny team, with past games being developed by one person, and this one has only a few more credited. But the team has always been true masters of unsettling audio design. Few games have ever creeped me out as this series does, and even in this third go-round with the central mechanic of capturing ghostly voices on tape, I still genuinely got shivers and goosebumps several times in my five-hour playthrough.
Growing up, I always loved browsing ghost-hunting websites. I loved to suspend my disbelief and get spooked by the EVPs I'd find online. Sylvio rekindles this appreciation within me, as its manufactured EVPs sound so much like the "real" thing that they are indistinguishable from one another. As you find recordings, you need to play them backward or forward, as well as on one of three speeds. Backmasked messaging is unnerving even when it's just on a Beatles album, so when the context is missing or dead people are talking about witches, devils, and a foreboding lake located somewhere in the strange world you explore, the effect is much greater.
So many of the voices you discover are poetic in nature, like a dream half-remembered and restitched together by emotions more than words. It furthers the game's greatly disconcerting atmosphere by giving you vague allusions to danger or violence, but not enough of an explanation to make sense of it all.
Without that cognitive closure, a mind tends to fill in the blanks, like a monster you can hear off-screen but never see. Playing it alone at night and with headphones on, Black Waters had me peering over my shoulder more than once. I stress this because I've played horror games all my life, so very few games have this effect on me anymore, but three of them now come from this one series.
Juliette doesn't know why she's there or what the place even is, which creates a compelling central mystery the previous games didn't have, and it's made better by her having a companion on the radio, Lee, who introduces himself as the lone survivor of the hazy world. Their back-and-forth makes for more front-and-center story than ever before in a Sylvio game, and their equally but dissimilarly moody performances make it all work. Juliette's hushed tones have always been a pitch-perfect companion to Sylvio's vibe, and Lee's performance always skews just a little bit off, like he's an unreliable narrator in Juliette's story, but you can't quite place why you feel that way.
All of this is aided by another remarkable soundtrack, just like the other games. Stroboskop's Niklas Swanberg has a background in composing music and it shows as the series' audio is consistently excellent. In Black Waters, the music can be hard to describe as it's quite varied--sometimes oddly folksy, like the music found coming from a radio at an abandoned campsite. Other times, it's breathy and churchy.
The game also debuts a new feature in which you can find pieces of original songs and put them back together, which adds more interesting background to the story. The eclectic music only really shares one attribute regardless of which track is playing: It's disquieting--an earworm you wish you could forget because it's gutturally upsetting. In a horror game, that's like magic.
The original Sylvio involved some combat elements, which I didn't enjoy. I preferred the sequel's way of focusing almost exclusively on the EVP mechanics; it made me feel like Ethan Hawke's character in Sinister, dissecting these cursed tapes and discovering things I wish I didn't. Sylvio: Black Waters revives and reimagines the series' combat mechanics, though I think they once again aren't a strength of the series.
As you move through levels, you'll find several air-powered guns that you load with some kind of liquid and marbles. These guns are seemingly meant to offer different strategies for different situations, like a rifle that would perhaps shoot farther than the pistol- or shotgun-like options, but in practice, I was able to use any of them for any occasion, which made the variety pointless. The range was irrelevant. The purpose of the gunplay being there at all is to dispel the ghosts that sometimes try to do you harm as you progress. The problem, however, is that they aren't very difficult to defeat. Amber-like humanoid statues are scattered throughout each level, and sometimes they come to life and chase you as wispy spirits. Once ambulant, the longer they exist near you, the more damage you take, but you can counter this by destroying the statues with marbles before they awaken.
In theory, there's a solid mechanic here in which you must decide to expend a marble to preemptively destroy the ghost, or take your chances and see if it doesn't awaken, but because ammo is abundant so long as you're diligently searching each level, this calculus is rarely relevant. Only in the last level did I have to make such wagers. For nearly all of the game, I simply destroyed the statues from a safe distance before they stirred, which I found is the ideal way to play for a secondary reason: Some statues hid more audio to dissect, which allowed me to piece together about a dozen additional stories beyond the five mandatory tales one unravels by beating the game.
The third Sylvio game is a worthy successor to the two supremely haunting games that came before it. Though it reverts to featuring some of the first game's lesser parts, it also carries over and improves on the best aspects of both its predecessors. Sylvio: Black Waters reaffirms what was already obvious to me: Stroboskop's audio design is on a level few other horror games can compete with, and with some future honing in on and improving the mechanics surrounding that centerpiece, the series still has room to grow. Even in this state, however, Sylvio: Black Waters will stick with you longer after the static dissipates.
At first glance, Kunitsu-Gami: Path Of The Goddess feels like the spinning plates metaphor made manifest. Each stage requires you to purge supernatural rot, rescue villagers, build traps, and fight off waves of hideous demons, all with the goal of aiding a divine maiden in her quest to rid Mt. Kafuku of a plague. The gameplay mechanics required to achieve all of those tasks, however, bundle together to create one of the more distinct experiences in video games this year.
On a moment-to-moment basis, Kunitsu-Gami tests your fighting skills, as well as your wits and your ability to think on your feet, lest the maiden in your care succumb to the rot. There are elements where the fun of its sword-swinging, demon-slaying action is supplanted by menial tasks, but those hiccups aren't enough to derail the whole experience. Kunitsu-Gami is a refreshing new addition to Capcom's stable of IP and a solid execution of an engaging gameplay loop.
This new adventure puts you in control of Soh, a samurai warrior who is sworn to protect Yoshiro, the aforementioned divine maiden. Their home, Mt. Kafuku, has been invaded by the Seethe, a demonic force of otherworldly entities who have spread a hideous plague of "defilement" throughout the land. Soh must lead Yoshiro through each town and village on the mountain, protecting her at all costs as she purges the defilement once and for all.
Right away, you can see the deep Japanese cultural influence on this game. The ceremonial garb, traditional dancing, and musical choices are immediately absorbing, and it feels like we're playing a piece of Japanese folklore. Notably, the game achieves this despite having very little dialogue; it is simply the actions of the characters on the screen that pull you in, and that's very impressive.
That said, the narrative arc also takes a backseat to the central gameplay loop, which renders the story as a whole slightly less effective. Kunitsu-Gami cares much more about making you work for each victory than it does about telling you a story before and after you achieve it. While this is a bummer, the potency of that gameplay loop--and the just-one-more-level feeling it creates--neutralizes the disappointment quickly.
Each new chapter starts with Yoshiro and Soh standing on one end of the stage, with a black path in the ground signaling the way to a Torii gate covered in rot, which, when cleansed, will restore the entire area. The day/night cycle provides two distinct-yet-intertwined gameplay modes, each providing its own challenges.
During the day, you'll scout the area while rescuing villagers ensnared in rot and purging smaller, contained areas of defilement. Cleaning up these areas earns you crystals--through purges and through cutting down small plants lining the pathways--and they can be spent both to carve the path through the rot for Yoshiro to move along and to assign jobs to the villagers you rescue. Once all of the defilement is purged from an area, a shrine opens and you'll earn a reward.
The simple act of starting a stage and going through the setup phase creates many stress-inducing decisions you'll need to think about before the first attack. Crystals are a finite resource, but are they better spent on the villagers who act as defense, or on carving the path for Yoshiro? Is there a happy medium where Yoshiro can walk to a point that's better defended than her starting point? The strategy element is fascinating, stressful, and exhilarating all at once, and that tension only builds as day turns into night.
Once night falls, the strategy elements immediately give way to hack-and-slash action as Soh and company take on the Seethe hordes. Their numbers increase as more waves come out during the night, and not having a solid strategy for dealing with those numbers could leave you overwhelmed. I was impressed with how many different types of Seethe are in the game; it feels like every stage comes with some new horrible enemy to face, each with its own abilities and weaknesses. The creeps also drop crystals for use in the next daytime cycle, so despite how scary these monsters are, you're encouraged to fight every one of them. Thankfully, slashing through these demons is a lot of fun, as the waves of enemies from moon up to moon down provide intense and constant action.
The Seethe can be dumb sometimes, however, which breaks the flow of the action every time it occurs. For example, one type of Seethe is meant to keep a distance and attack with projectiles. In keeping that distance, however, they corner themselves and stay in one place. Since waves of Seethe don't normally begin until the previous wave is defeated, you can leave that lone demon alone for as long as you like, which gives you an unintended breather that feels like cheating in a way.
What's most impressive about Kunitsu-Gami's core loop is how the nighttime fights immediately bear the fruits of your labor in the daytime segments--or shine a spotlight on something you missed. You might have put up that protective barrier to fortify the path in front of Yoshiro, but the left or right flank might be wide open. When multiple portals of Seethe open in later stages, what you thought might account for both paths might only impact one. Should you make a wrong decision, most of the time you can adjust formations on the fly or figure out a different plan in the next cycle, but sometimes one mistake can ruin an entire run, and you'll have to adjust after the game-over screen. That instant payoff, positive or negative, is always a thrill and immediately gets you thinking about what's next.
While what's described above is the main format of each stage, some of them take a completely different approach, as if Capcom realized that keeping with the same day/night cycle over and over again might turn some players off. One stage puts Soh, Yoshiro, and all of the villagers on a boat crossing a river, which is inundated with Seethe from all sides. Another sees a unique type of demon possessing Yoshiro immediately, which renders Soh unable to fight, so all you can do is assign the villagers jobs and direct them as a small floating spirit. Forrest Gump's old adage about chocolate somehow, incredibly, applies here too; you never know what you're going to get when you start up a new stage.
Most stages also have an adjacent boss battle, which unlocks once the main challenge is completed. These are the best parts of Kunitsu-Gami, as each boss provides some of the best battles in games this year. Some are just bigger and badder versions of Seethe we've seen before, but others are completely unique monsters with a suite of attacks that requires deft dodging, well-timed parries, and measured attacks. Defeating them earns Soh and company a mask, which manifests in new jobs for the villagers to assume--a fair reward for the intense battles you're put through that feeds back into adding new wrinkles to the core gameplay loop.
Outside of the core loop, there's also a base-building mechanic, but this is far more mundane than anything else in the game. Soh can revisit areas already cleansed by Yoshiro and instruct the villagers to rebuild areas destroyed by the Seethe. These tasks are completed while you advance through the main story chapters, which means you have to return to earn the reward given by these repairs.
On the surface, this sounds like an optional side quest, but there's a catch: The main reward for completing these base building tasks is musubi, a material that acts as the main upgrade resource for both Soh and the villagers. This turns a boring-but-skippable side quest into a boring-but-super-important one, which forces you to backtrack after every completed stage, and in turn bogs down the entire experience. Also, the requirement to get these repairs done is completing a certain number of missions--which includes replaying older missions, but repeating the same mission over and over again just adds to the boredom.
Additionally, while the idea of rebuilding what was destroyed isn't a problem, its implementation is; in order to initiate these repairs, you must run to specific points in the area, which drags the pace down even further. All of this could have been managed in menus, which would allow you to get back in the action more quickly than we do now.
The different ways Kunitsu-Gami pulls your mind during a day/night cycle in real time is intense, but the thrill of it all is hard to describe. Capcom's deft merging of two seemingly disparate genres, with tower defense and even some RPG elements thrown in for flavor, has created an experience that's noteworthy for its successes more than its failures. Sure, there are a few missteps--namely in the incredibly tedious base-building segments--but the action and strategy provided in the core experience overcomes that tedium to create a game worthy of your time.
Capcom has been firing on all cylinders lately in regards to its tenured franchises, and now that success has manifested in an interesting new IP. Kunitsu-Gami begins on strong footing, and we may be witnessing the next great Capcom franchise carving a path right in front of our eyes.
The First Descendant is a bad video game that's occasionally fun. These fleeting moments of joy speak to the potential of the game's bedrock, where snappy combat ekes out glimpses of delight amidst a torrent of disappointment and frustration. Everything surrounding the game's fast-paced shooting is painfully dull, tedious, and egregiously predatory. The First Descendant is a free-to-play, third-person looter shooter that feels like it was designed to please shareholders rather than the people playing it. It's derivative and soulless, bereft of new ideas outside of the myriad ways it attempts to extract money from its player base. It's a foul example of a game designed around monetization, even in a market saturated with freemium looter shooters.
It doesn't start on good footing, either. The First Descendant's story is convoluted and sterile, but the basic premise places you as one of the titular Descendants--a group of humans with unique abilities passed down to them from their fallen ancestors. You're tasked with fighting for the survival of humanity against an invading alien threat known as the Vulgus, who traveled to the colonized planet of Ingris in search of an infinite energy source.
These interdimensional invaders come in all shapes and sizes, with very little in common regarding their visual design. Some look like gray-skinned humans; others are grotesque creatures with large glowing claws. There are sleek and smooth-edged robots, but also clunky ones, too. Some are made to resemble humanoid lizards, while others are floating orbs that shoot lightning. There's no cohesion or unifying theme to the Vulgus. Even their names range from Greg to something more alien, like Alzaroke.
This might seem like a minor gripe in the grand scheme of things. If the enemy looks cool, then who cares? But it's indicative of the game's poor approach to storytelling and worldbuilding. Maybe a lot of these disparate enemy types are slaves or were sworn to fealty in exchange for their lives. That would heighten the Vulgus threat and explain the dearth of cohesion, but I never encountered anything like this. The story is more concerned with incessantly regurgitating the same plot points and burying you beneath a mountain of laborious jargon, often saying things without saying anything at all. There's almost no character development or any shred of personality in sight. It doesn't even end, cutting off at what feels like the halfway point so the story can presumably continue in forthcoming updates. But who wants to see more? The best way to experience The First Descendant's narrative is by skipping it entirely.
Combat is at least snappy, and the standard assortment of assault rifles, snipers, and shotguns generally feel impactful unless you're fighting one of the game's bullet sponge enemies. Seeing numbers pop up as you fill an enemy with lead is as inherently satisfying as it usually is, and each character has access to a grappling hook that lets you zip around the environment and pull yourself toward enemies. The First Descendant is a fairly mobile shooter and incentivizes constant motion, either to avoid incoming fire, venture into a crowd of enemies to unleash AOE attacks or zip to the outskirts of a battle to take out a pesky sniper. The loot you earn from all of this shooting is distinctly bland, however. You're constantly submerged in so much nebulous loot that most of it feels meaningless. Every assault rifle feels like every other assault rifle, so you're simply picking whichever gun has the highest DPS and disregarding the rest.
Fortunately, The Descendants and their abilities are varied enough that each one feels unique. There are 14 playable characters in all, five of which have more powerful Ultimate variants. At the beginning of the game, you're given a choice between one of three starting Descendants. Then you can unlock or purchase the others later, if you so choose.
Each Descendant has four active skills that operate on a cooldown, along with one passive skill. I started with Viessa, who uses ice attacks to deal damage and freeze enemies in place. She's fine but can't compare to Bunny, the first new character you unlock. Bunny epitomizes the game's mobility with her lightning-quick movement and devastating electric attacks. The more she runs, the more electrical energy she accumulates, which you can then unleash in powerful shockwaves. When you're in full flight, you're essentially a roving AOE attack, able to weave in and out of enemy groups while zapping them to death. It's fun, particularly when combined with an SMG or shotgun, although I wish there was some semblance of synergy between each of the Descendants.
You can play the whole game solo, but it's incredibly easy to join other players in co-op, which feels essential in later missions. Aside from making life easier, however, there's little difference between playing by yourself or with others. Ajax can deploy a domed shield for everyone to use as cover, but I didn't encounter another example of a Descendant's skills working in tandem with others or even benefiting them. Take Valby, for instance. She can liquefy herself, which leaves a trail of water in her wake that damages any enemies standing within it. It would've been cool if Bunny could then electrify this water and inflict even more damage, adding a much-needed element of teamwork while also altering the dynamics of combat. But that's not the case.
Any of The First Descendant's other positives are quickly undermined by its stale mission design and arduous grind. The game's basic structure sees you visit various locations where you're tasked with completing a few short missions in an open area before moving on to a linear, dungeon-esque Operation. These missions consist of the same few objectives over and over again, typically revolving around killing things and standing in circles to hack or defend something or other. It gets tedious fairly quickly and is then extrapolated across a full 35-hour game and beyond (because the endgame also has you repeating these same missions).
It's incredibly boring and monotonous, and is made worse by the fact that most of these objectives often stifle your class abilities. Bunny needs to be allowed to run free, not be confined to a circle where you're forced to stand still and shoot waves of incoming enemies. The enemies themselves don't make this interesting, either, as they are intent on jogging towards you in a straight line. They don't roll or take cover; they're mindless drones lining up to be shot. There are a few exceptions to the rule, but even the enemy type that teleports just looks like it's lagging across the map.
Operations fare slightly better, but even these longer missions still frequently include the same dreary objectives. Worse still, the bosses waiting for you at the end of each one share an identical pattern of events. After depleting their initial health bar, each boss becomes invulnerable, being shielded by floating balls. You need to destroy these balls--sometimes in a specific order, sometimes all at once--to take down their shield and resume dealing damage to their health bar. This is fine the first time you do it, but it repeats on roughly 95% of the bosses you face. Add in the fact that these bosses often share the same attack patterns or simply just stand there and shoot you, and these battles are another terribly dull and exhausting element of The First Descendant's design.
For as bad as all of this is, it's made significantly worse by the game's approach to progression. In order to unlock new Descendants and unique ultimate weapons, you need to gather a bunch of materials to construct each one. Partway through the game, I was given a side quest to unlock a new character called Freyna. This involved playing three missions for the chance to acquire three different materials. I spent almost an hour replaying the same two-minute mission on repeat, just hoping to receive an item with a 20% drop rate. After that, I did the same with an Operation, spending over an hour repeating the same mission waiting for the material I needed to drop.
My reward for trudging through the same banal missions was a new character that I then needed to wait 16 hours before I was allowed to use. Not only is this mind-numbingly dull, but this vapid approach also encourages toxicity. I encountered a few occasions where a player remained idle throughout an entire Operation, presumably sick of having to play the same mission ad nauseam. All of this seems to be by design, as the workaround is to relent at the sheer tedium of it all and spend real money to expedite the process and gain immediate access.
The First Descendant's storefront is inundated with an overwhelming amount of things you can purchase with real money. There's a tab dedicated solely to "Convenience," offering boosts to speed up the deliberate inconvenience of the game's grind. You can pay to decrease the timer that's placed on everything you unlock; pay to unlock more mod slots, which directly correlates to how powerful your character is; pay to unlock Descendants themselves, who vary in price but always cost just over the amount of in-game currency you're allowed to buy, forcing you to pay more. If you want an Ultimate version of a Descendant--which comes with increased stats, additional mod slots, more powerful attacks and skills, and a few skins--it will set you back around $104.
You can unlock Ultimate Descendants by playing the game, but then you're looking at sub-3% drop rates on all of the materials you need. It's obscene, especially when the game also has a premium battle pass and no shame about exploiting practices like restricting single-use armor dye to one piece of clothing. And while it may not be a competitive shooter, those who bypass the game's grind still create a significant imbalance during Operations. Powerful characters, particularly if they're speed-based, can blaze through these linear levels to the point where other players won't even see an enemy. The entire game is built to make you want to acquiesce and part with your hard-earned cash. A $10 Descendant starts to look mightily appealing when the only other option is mindlessly soul-crushing, and that's the whole point.
The First Descendant has moments of fun, but its action is constantly debilitated by tiresome mission design and a grind entirely informed by its venomous monetization. It's designed to frustrate and steer players toward an extensive storefront that lets you circumvent some of its monotony, only to be met with even more. There are no redeeming features to its intentionally infuriating free-to-play model; it feels like a game designed in a boardroom, where every single aspect of its design is secondary to the pursuit of making more money. It's a sad state of affairs, and I wouldn't recommend The First Descendant to anyone.
In Path of the Teal Lotus, you play as the titular Bō, a celestial blossom charged with fulfilling an ancient prophecy and defeating a terrifyingly large monstrosity after falling from the heavens. Armed with a bō staff, Bō must traverse and fight their way through picturesque locales, meeting characters and fighting monsters inspired by Japanese folklore. It's an incredible narrative tee-up, but one that comes after hours of coy character dialogue and not much in the way of direction beyond "go get this ability to get to the next area." Path of the Teal Lotus' story takes a long time to get going, leaving the first half of the game feeling directionless. And once a story does start falling into place, the game is already heading toward its conclusion, culminating in an overall narrative tempo that initially feels far too slow before becoming rushed and difficult to follow.
And I wanted to get lost in this game's world. Path of the Teal Lotus is a beautiful game, featuring a colorful, hand-drawn 2.5D style that incorporates vibrant greens, electric blues, somber purples, and shining reds. Character and enemy designs are varied and pop against the backdrop, with details helping to highlight NPCs you want to talk to and enemy weak points you want to bash. The world relies on the tried-and-true method of associating a specific color with each location and then relying on said color to depict the same location on the map, reinforcing each distinct locale and the unique challenges you'll encounter there, whether it's the icy blue of a snow-covered mountaintop or soft pink of a sakura-filled forest.
Composer Moisés Camargo brings these locales to life with an incredible musical score that incorporates traditional Japanese string instruments. The overall sound design is great, too, and pairs with distinct visual indicators to help discern what's happening to Bō during especially hectic scenes--a sharp clang and small kickback burst letting you know that Bō is attacking impenetrable armor, for example, or a satisfying boing and brief release of white particle effects indicating that Bō successfully bounced off an enemy's head.
But for as beautiful as the world is to look at and listen to, it's far too tricky to get around. Path of the Teal Lotus attempts to straddle the line of a traditional action game's linear progression and a metroidvania's looping exploration, and it doesn't quite succeed at either. Each of its areas is mostly self-contained, the spokes of a wheel connecting back to one hub. In an entirely linear game, a structure like this wouldn't be a problem as you'd handle each spoke one by one. But Path of the Teal Lotus leans hard into those metrodivania trappings, with the main quest and multiple optional side quests requiring you to backtrack to other areas. Though a fast-travel system helps, you still have to travel to specific points in order to use this system and the rarity of such points means you spend a lot of time just trying to reach them. Backtracking gets harder the further into the game you get as the spokes of the map get longer and longer, distancing themselves and going against the necessary interconnectivity to alleviate the frustration of aimless exploration.
Worse, Path of the Teal Lotus' map isn't very good. Multiple times, I'd look at it and wonder where I was supposed to go next, with the formatting suggesting I had explored every area. Eventually, I'd stumble upon an NPC or hallway I had missed--Path of the Teal Lotus marks a room having been fully explored even if you've only just walked past it, but it doesn't put markers for additional discoveries in that room unless you actually fully explore said room. The result is a map that sometimes says you've fully uncovered a corner of the map when, in fact, you may have actually not gone into one of the areas where a pathway leads to where you next need to go. An objective tracker graciously alleviates much of the guesswork, at least pointing you in the right direction so you know which locale to explore, but this only lessens the unrewarding guesswork of exploration, rather than outright removing it.
On the flipside, combat in Path of the Teal Lotus is great. Bō swings their staff with acrobatic grace, knocking back enemies with a satisfying thwack. While in the air, the staff can be used to bounce off enemies, adding a degree of aerial finesse to Bō's dance-like movements. It's simple to pick up, but there's a remarkably high skill ceiling, especially in the latter half of the game when the movesets of the tough-as-nails yokai boss fights build on Bō's additional abilities--like a dash and spider ball-like wall roll--to ramp up the tension of each confrontation. Bō's rhythmic movements aid in mastering the patterns that underlie each combat encounter; there's a dance to learn here, and each counter you master ensures you lead the performance. A few of the boss fights frustrated me enough to put the game down for a while, but my qualms were never with the mechanics, just my own inability to maneuver through the enemy's attacks in the way the game was clearly indicating.
I do have qualms with the platforming, however. Bō's floaty movements may add to the dance-like sensation of the combat, but they transform the platforming segments in the game into terrible slogs. One moment in particular--in which you have to navigate two back-to-back frustratingly long platforming gauntlets in an icy cave--almost convinced me to put the game down for good. The structure of the game simply does not allow for Bō to perform tight jumps and precise movements, leading to a handful of missed jumps that can be rage-inducing during sections of the game where one-too-many mistakes can send you back to the last spawn point at the start of the series of spikes, moving platforms, crushing walls, and Bō-tracking bats. Thankfully, many of the platforming challenges in the game are optional, hiding secret shortcuts or collectibles. But the handful of times that the mandatory ones pop up stalls the momentum of progression to an irritating halt.
Bō: Path of the Teal Lotus is a gorgeous game, featuring an incredible art style and sound design that strengthen an already colorful world that I want to explore. But getting around in the game is regularly a chore, and Bō's floaty, dance-like movements too often lead to frustrating deaths during platforming gauntlets. The game at least shines through its combat, and the story is exciting once it does actually get going--but there's just too much in the way to fully enjoy what the game does well.
Following its release on Nintendo Switch this past April, Demon Slayer: Sweep the Board has been released on additional platforms. Unfortunately, however, it seems my wait for Sweep the Board to come to PC was not worth it. After nearly 10 hours of playing, I still have a hard time discerning just who exactly this game was made for. From clunky controls to boring minigames, Sweep the Board feels like a party game that lacks any sense of "party."
Demon Slayer: Sweep the Board adapts several arcs of the manga and anime into Mario Party-esque layouts. From Asakusa and Mount Fujikasane in Board 1 to the Swordsmith Village in Board 5, each map is chock-full of references and nods to moments from the show, which was a treat for me as a fan. For instance, there are multiple paths in Mt. Natagumo that take you to Tsuzumi Mansion, which has a mysterious drum that causes characters inside the building to move to random locations. The Swordsmith Village, meanwhile, has hot springs, mechanical training dolls, and Haganezuka chasing you around. Those familiar with the source material will no doubt get a kick out of the references, albeit a brief one.
Players traverse the board by rolling dice and moving across spaces, with branching paths that lead to other areas. Likewise, maps have their own modes of transportation in keeping with their respective themes, such as boats that take you from Asakusa to Northwest Town, rickshaws in Yoshiwara Entertainment District, and the Mugen Train going around the tracks. There are plenty of NPCs to encounter when you land on certain spaces, too, including Tamayo’s cat, Goto (one of the Kakushi), Tengen Uzui’s honeys, and more, leading to a fair amount of replayability.
As far as characters go, Sweep the Board lets you choose from 12 heroes, including the main trio of Tanjiro, Zenitsu, and Inosuke. They're joined by Hashira like Mitsuri, Gyomei, Rengoku, Sanemi, and more. Curiously enough, Nezuko isn’t playable, but she does appear as a support character who helps the player in last place, usually by adding an extra dice roll or handing a free item to them. I actually like this concept since, although Nezuko is absolutely vicious in her Awakened demon form, she’s still a child that everyone is protective of. It makes more sense to have her assist than play an active role, much like in the series.
Characters in the game are beautifully rendered and animated; the original cast also did the Japanese and English voiceovers, meaning I found myself immersed right down to the most minute details. Zenitsu’s giddy reactions, Inosuke’s brashness, Shinobu’s cheerful disposition, and Giyu’s nonchalant remarks all effectively evoke the source material. My only gripe here is that characters don’t have unique perks or abilities, which would’ve been apt for a board game where you control powerful fighters. Instead, everyone just has the usual dice rolls and Slayer Dice that grant samey bonuses.
Your main goal in Demon Slayer: Sweep the Board is to amass Rank Points at the end of a match, which can be as short as five turns or as time-consuming as 30 turns. At the start of each day, players participate in a variety of minigames. There were a select few that I really enjoyed, such as Team Memory Matching which, as the term implies, is all about flipping portraits until you find a match, and Zenko’s Zealous Performance, which is akin to a musical rhythm game. My favorite, by far, is Don’t Miss a Beat! where I had to run through Tsuzumi Mansion’s twisting hallways, all while jumping over pits and razor-sharp projectiles thrown by Kyogai the Drum Demon.
However, several minigames were overly simple, hilariously easy, or downright boring. For example, Last One Jumping is a skipping rope minigame where I just had to press a button at the right time, while Demon Sleigh-er had me move side to side to pass through speed bursts while avoiding obstacles. Some activities even occurred twice during the same match, which made the whole endeavor repetitive to a fault.
Regrettably, the controls can be unresponsive or janky at times, too. Demon Slayer: Sweep the Board offers solo play, online play, and local split-screen for up to four people (with any remaining slots controlled by the CPU). For local split-screen, I decided to use a keyboard while my wife used a Logitech F310 gamepad. Playing on a gamepad was significantly more comfortable than using a keyboard, since the latter led to cumbersome moments especially in minigames that required the use of the WASD keys to trace drawings or follow a diagonal direction. Worse, I noticed button prompts would change in the middle of a game--rolling a die and ending a dialogue usually meant pressing the “E” key, but there were instances when the “Q” key had to be pressed instead. I couldn’t tell if this was a bug due to a keyboard and gamepad setup for local play.
The board switches to its night phase once a player has reached the destination spot, which is also when Greater Demons spawn. These powerful enemies keep with the theme of each board, with Yahaba, Susamaru, and the Hand Demon emerging in Asakusa/Mt. Fujikasane, Enmu and Akaza in the Mugen Train, Gyutaro and Daki in the Entertainment District, and so on. I was impressed by the inclusion of these opponents, which were presented as special boss encounters complete with short cutscenes from the anime. Even Muzan shows up several turns in, extending the night phase, so to speak, and increasing the number of threats.
My only complaint here is that boss battles against Greater Demons are still your run-of-the-mill button mash or quick-time event affairs with little variety or challenge. There are a couple of notable exceptions, such as the Daki encounter, though this is mostly because button prompts appeared in different positions onscreen, making the battle more confusing than exciting. It was disappointing to see boss battles themselves turn into dull and uninspired activities.
The most glaring shortcoming of Demon Slayer: Sweep the Board, however, is that it’s hardly something that can be considered a competitive board game or party game. When you think of other titles and franchises in these genres, such as Mario Party Superstars, The Jackbox Party Pack, Talisman, Catan, or even Monopoly, you’re either looking for chaotic romps, memorable and fun minigames, or ways to sabotage and stymie your opponent’s progress. The mere notion of someone leading the pack, and the knowledge that you can snatch their hard-earned rewards or their lead from under their nose, creates tense, exasperating, and oftentime amusing moments.
Sadly, these moments are few and far between in Demon Slayer: Sweep the Board. During the course of my review, I kept checking for perks that would allow me to steal goodies from other players or claim their Hashira ally as my own, but it looks like these mechanics don’t exist. Outside of a couple of consumable items--one that forces all players to move to my current location and another that makes me swap places with a target--I couldn’t create scenarios that would flip the table on another person, to everyone else’s raucous laughter.
At best, Demon Slayer: Sweep the Board is just a race to reach destination spots or Greater Demon spots to earn more Rank Points. Regardless of how well I did or how high my score was, minigames themselves only granted a smattering of coins to purchase items, and victories against Greater Demons offered but a handful of Rank Points. By the same token, the randomized way in which these spots showed up sometimes gave advantages to the closest player, and I had no control over these occurrences.
Likewise, I was surprised to see that post-game rewards handed out by Kagaya, the mentor of the Hashira, were also random. In one match, bonus Rank Points were given to the one who spent the most gold. I then used up a lot of gold during my next run, only for the special reward to be given to the player who moved the most number of spaces. Outside of the main mode, it’s possible to retry each minigame and boss encounter in quick runs, as well as spend coins to unlock cosmetic rewards like stickers, anime avatars, alternate attires, and wallpapers, but it’s not very exciting to do.
Despite being a huge fan of the series Demon Slayer: Sweep the Board offered very little to keep me entertained. A few hours in, the experience became repetitive and tedious to a degree that it’s hard to recommend to even the most ardent of manga and anime enthusiasts. You’re better off grabbing The Hinokami Chronicles, made by the same studio, if you’re into Demon Slayer, and those who prefer party games or board games already have a plethora of other options.
This latest adventure is the beginning of something new for the MMO and aims to try something a little different with a number of unpredictable outcomes. You'd be setting yourself up for disappointment if you're expecting this expansion to offer the non-stop excitement and narrative revelations or Shadowbringers or Endwalker, but Dawntrail is still a great setup for a lower-stakes adventure, and one that ultimately makes Dawntrail's twist that much more compelling.
Major spoilers ahead for Dawntrail's story
In this adventure, you set off across the ocean and sail west to the continent of Tural. Although you're technically on vacation, you're also on a mission: to help your new companion, Wuk Lamat, become the next Dawnservant of Tural and, in the process, find the fabled city of gold.
While Endwalker hit the ground running and was rare with its respites, Dawntrail is leisurely paced as you compete in the rite of succession. It takes great care in getting you familiar with your new surroundings first and, as Alisaie puts it, "For once, the fate of the world doesn't rest on our shoulders." As a result, you're able to take in all the gorgeous sights with no sense of pressure to race against the clock.
From the picturesque capital, Tuliyollal, to lush rainforests and dense jungles filled with flora and fauna, to mountainous regions under starry skies, there is no place in Dawntrail you won't want to stop and admire. Tural is among the most beautiful places the MMO has to offer, and its design is only enhanced thanks to the long-awaited graphics update, making this expansion's vibrant color palette and smallest details pop.
As you travel these lands, it's clear so much thought and attention went into curating not just its locations, but also the many cultures of the people you meet along the way, like Hanuhanu, the Yok Huy, and the Xbr'aal. The lives of the Turali are as important to your journey as anything else in Dawntrail, and as you spend more and more time learning about their respective cultures and histories, you'll witness firsthand the impact they leave on the overarching story, especially the Yok Huy's traditions of remembering their loved ones.
Final Fantasy XIV has often struggled with its pacing, especially when it comes to finding the time to address every single narrative thread. And while learning about the people of Tural is one of the most interesting parts of Dawntrail's story, in some places it feels like there is a lack of momentum when it comes to progression and the placement of some quests, which can disrupt the momentum. This issue improves somewhat in Dawntrail, which avoids overwhelming you with too much at once, mainly due to the fact that the story is consistent in its singular goal from the start. In the initial half of your journey, you'll rarely pick up your weapon outside of Duties, which makes a ton of room for you to get really absorbed in the characters and world around you.
However, some questlines feel outdated and meandering in their presentation and can make you feel like you're not making any headway. Too often, you are tasked with walking from point A to point B to talk to an NPC, or ordered to collect an item, and repeat this loop. Quests like these are to be expected in an MMO, but even so, it's repetitive and unenjoyable. The stealth and companion follow quests in particular, which are seemingly used as a way to make the lack of action more engaging, are just plain tedious. That being said, the overall journey is appealing and engaging enough that these issues don't derail the plot entirely--they merely slow you down.
One of the most intriguing aspects of this tale is the decision to establish Wuk Lamat as the central protagonist. You take a step back in this story to allow for the female Hrothgar to shine, and it's a decision that benefits the overall narrative brilliantly.
Wuk Lamat is without a doubt the shining star of this expansion. It's her compassion and extroverted playfulness that makes her such an endearing companion and making the journey through Dawntrail that much more worthwhile. She is unapologetically herself, almost comically so, whether it be in her positive outlook on life or her love for her country; she's simply a joy to travel with. She's a fierce warrior, but is afraid of alpacas, will take on any challenge presented to her, but gets seasick. It's these characterizations, along with the terrific work from her English voice actor Sena Bryer, that makes Wuk Lamat one of the more memorable Final Fantasy XIV companions in recent memory. Without her by your side, Dawntrail just wouldn't be the same.
She's a character you want to root for because, despite her positive exterior, she also has her flaws, along with personal challenges she must overcome on your journey together. As you travel from region to region, Wuk Lamat comes to understand that she isn't as familiar with her people as she originally thought, revealing her naivety in the process, which makes her doubt her worthiness for the throne.
Step-by-step, with you by her side as her friend and guide, Wuk Lamat goes through a delightful journey of self-discovery, and it's rewarding to witness her character develop. Plus, the polarizing conflict at the center of her story makes for quite the compelling narrative twist part way through the expansion's story--it's a huge part of what makes the narrative extremely powerful, creating opportunities for unanticipated reveals and shocking consequences.
Final Fantasy XIV has always worn its heart on its sleeve, and it's no different in Dawntrail. As you familiarize yourself with new characters and cultures, the game's themes begin to present themselves more clearly. Dawntrail is about friendship, family, and belonging, which are ideas that are intentionally tied to not only Wuk Lamat's journey to becoming the leader she's always envisioned herself as, but also to returning characters like Krile and Erenville, who are also driven by familial connections in their search for the city of gold.
The most compelling facet of this narrative is the introduction of the mysterious Queen Sphene of Alexandria. Not introduced until the late stages of the story, Sphene is presented as a leader who loves her people and even considers them family, much like Wuk Lamat does. There's a clear distinction between the two, made even more obvious by their thematically opposing nations. While Tural is teeming with life and holds traditions close to their hearts, Alexandrian culture is a dystopia and technologically advanced.
The Yok Huy and their traditions of "remembering" loved ones after they have passed and the Alexandrian way of forcibly removing the memories of those who die so they can artificially live on within "the cloud" as The Endless throws their differences into stark contrast and presents you with underlying questions about the meaning of death and what comes after, letting go and processing grief, as well as what it means to truly live and die.
The duality of the two queens demonstrates an interesting, additional conflict altogether. They both love their homes, but while Wuk Lamat wishes to preserve peace for the good of everyone involved, Sphene will stop at nothing to put her people first. In true Final Fantasy XIV fashion, this conflict manages to find a way to pull on your heartstrings in the most unexpected ways and forces you to confront difficult decisions that not only affect the Alexandrians, but also your close companions. Some things aren't as they seem, and these decisions also come with consequences that could potentially have a lasting effect on this era's story going forward.
When you are deep in the action, Dungeons and Trials both feel more challenging than ever, especially in terms of the boss mechanics. Though certainly manageable, you may have to be ultra-focused so as not to get hit by a particularly nasty AOE, or a complicated, continuous chain attack. I know I was. They feel tougher this time around, but are extremely fun and satisfying when you figure out the bosses' attack rotations alongside your party.
Duty designs are also tailored brilliantly with their respective narrative beats, something Final Fantasy XIV has always excelled at. They're made even more thrilling thanks to the fantastic, sweeping musical tracks courtesy of composer Masayoshi Soken, who has once again proven that his music considerably contributes to bringing a story to life.
With the latest expansion also came two brand-new Jobs, Viper and Pictomancer. Viper is a DPS class that engages enemies through the use of three-step combos, with the third step granting an effect to strengthen a different combo-ending action, and it's a thrill to play. At first, the Job can feel quite overwhelming simply due to the abundance of skills you're given straight away at level 80, so nailing those combos down correctly does take time to understand, making Viper one of the more difficult DPS Jobs. Once you do get into the swing of things, however, it's quite exciting to play. This class is slick and flashy as it relies on fast-paced attacks with your twin blades that can also be connected into a double-ended weapon for bigger AOE attacks, making you feel like you're really putting a dent in the enemy.
Then there's Pictomancer, and the two Jobs couldn't be more different. While Viper is all about throwing out attack after attack and perfecting your combos for the best attack window, this ranged-magical DPS class is the most refreshing caster Job the game has seen in a while. The artistic Job mainly depends on you painting three canvases, two with corresponding spells that deal a ton of damage to the enemy, as well as a third canvas that will offer your party a helpful buff in battle on top of your other vital utility. With its vibrant spells taking up your screen to paint wonderful pictures, it's a really fun, whimsical class to play, with a rotation that is quite simple to get the hang of. It doesn't feel like a chore leveling up, and I'm hopeful for more charming and laid back Jobs just like it in the future.
I had some concerns about how Dawntrail could introduce and wrap up an entire conflict in the second half of its expansion, but the story is able to tie up every major thread along the way, while also delivering an emotionally impactful resolution. Even though the story does have a firm end, it has also established some exciting prospects for the game going forward, especially when it comes to the expanding lore of Final Fantasy XIV and what could come next. It paves the way for new places to explore in future adventures and even does the necessary setup work to contextualize how the player will be involved in what awaits on the horizon.
Final Fantasy XIV: Dawntrail is a great stepping stone in a brand-new saga for the MMO. While the story might seem straightforward at first, it soon takes an unexpected, yet compelling turn that presents new possibilities for this new era. Though some questlines can feel repetitive and outdated, they don't get in the way of an otherwise brilliant expansion, and the journey is made all the more enjoyable thanks to a wonderful new cast of characters at your side.
More than almost any other genre, the metroidvania is reaching a saturation point. We have beloved modernizations like Hollow Knight and Axiom Verge and big-budget takes like Batman: Arkham Asylum or this year's Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown, alongside a steady, constant drumbeat of indie releases. It's hard to throw a rock at Steam without hitting at least a couple of metroidvanias, and with that much choice, it's hard for any one to stand out. Gestalt: Steam and Cinder is the latest indie take on the genre, but it manages to do what many others don't: pay homage to the two most prominent originators of the genre with smart, deliberate design choices that help it stand out in a crowded field.
In some sense, all metroidvanias combine aspects of Super Metroid and Castlevania: Symphony of the Night. Gestalt does so as well, but it also wisely leans on some of their best attributes, which feels like a conscious choice. For Super Metroid, that means a vast, interconnected world that is broken into a handful of distinct zones that play like their own stages. And like Symphony of the Night, it sports gorgeous pixel art with an emphasis on slick combat with light RPG hooks.
In Gestalt, you play as Aletheia, a no-nonsense bounty hunter who is on semi-friendly terms with the governing body of Canaan, a post-apocalyptic steampunk city. The world has recovered from the devastation of a war involving clockwork soldiers and cursed armor, but the stability is tense and everyone senses it's coming to an end. You get the impression throughout that Canaan's peacekeepers have tried to recruit Aletheia at various points, but she's always preferred to go her own way because she is, above all else, a cool, independent protagonist. Taking bounties ultimately leads to trouble as she investigates the areas around Canaan for clues about what's really going on.
Functionally, that means the map is separated into distinct zones that would feel right at home on Super Metroid's planet Zebes. The areas are visually distinct from each other, and for the most part, you complete one "stage" before moving on to the next. You can still backtrack to older areas to reach new areas that you couldn't before, but you won't be criss-crossing between areas repeatedly. I found it a refreshing change of pace to have a slightly more structured metroidvania that minimizes backtracking between areas.
That said, the map is much less detailed than the grid-based one you'd find in Super Metroid and many games inspired by it. You won't get the satisfaction of filling in every grid-chunk on a map. Despite that, I had no trouble finding my way around even when revisiting areas to find extra treasures, so the map did its job adequately.
That's partly because exploration is not heavily emphasized in your abilities. Though you do get a handful of exploration-based abilities, most areas aren't actually ability-gated. The ones you do get are likely what you've come to expect from a metroidvania, like a double-jump or an air dash. But those ability gates are smartly implemented into a large upgrade matrix. Instead of a starting point with branches like a tree, you can see the full suite of abilities from the start. As you get new ones throughout the story, they unlock nodes that generally correspond to the four corners, which lets you buy connecting abilities starting from that direction. Some of the strongest are at the midpoint between nodes and only unlock when you've approached from both sides. That lets the game dole out abilities at a deliberate pace, while also giving you a lot of control over your choices about which super-abilities you want to build towards.
And while it carries itself with a retro aesthetic, the combat mechanics had one noticeable modern touch. Given the look and feel of the game, I had tried to approach combat encounters by avoiding getting too close to enemies, assuming that pressing against them would cause me to suffer damage. But much like a 3D action game, that isn't the case. You can hug enemies, roll right into them, strike, and then roll away. After a slight adjustment period, this felt very intuitive for the combat system, which is largely built around close-quarters attacks and dodge-rolling out of the way. (It is, however, somewhat odd to have a forward dodge-roll and a backward dodge-flip assigned to two different buttons, despite them functioning almost identically. I barely used the dodge-flip.)
Combat is also augmented by a long-range pistol, with extremely limited ammo that gets refreshed through building up energy with melee attacks. You can shoot a normal bullet, but the pistol's special Tesla-infused bullets are necessary to stagger tougher, shielded enemies (as well as to charge certain electronic devices). Encounters are often a delicate balance of closing distance, attacking to build your meter, backing off to fire off a couple of debilitating shots, and then closing the gap to go in for the kill. It's a thrilling dance, and made more so as you unlock more specialized abilities like charged shots or fiery, screen-filling melees.
Gestalt also implements a light equipment and item system, with accessories for stat bonuses and potions that give you temporary buffs. I hardly ever needed to use items outside of a refillable healing flask, but rejiggering my accessories frequently made a huge difference--especially once I began finding more parts to craft new and upgraded versions for them by doing side quests.
Thanks largely to the smart upgrade and equipment system, I found the combat difficulty to be a nicely inviting and smooth ramp, albeit one where the challenge didn't quite scale to match my power. Near the beginning of the game, I was trying boss encounters at least a few times, and more often than not, grinding to unlock another few upgrade nodes before going back to try again. By the end, I was breezing through every boss on the first try without much difficulty. That makes the combat feel empowering, if not especially challenging as you near the end.
One aspect where Gestalt: Steam and Cinder should have borrowed more inspiration from its inspirations, though, is in its story presentation. Super Metroid is famously minimalist, telling most of its haunting story through silent vignettes. Symphony of the Night tells a more detailed story but does it through short, punchy and campy dialogue sequences. Gestalt by comparison is extremely lore-heavy, to the point that it sometimes bogs down the experience. Dialogue sequences are both overlong and dense, littered with proper nouns that make it difficult to track. I often wished for a glossary to refresh my memory about what various terms meant. By the end, I felt confident that I was understanding the general gist, but the story it was telling did not warrant the sheer volume of text.
However, the vast majority of my time was not spent wading through inscrutable dialogue. It was spent exploring a diverse steampunk world, mastering the surprisingly rich combat, and filling out the smartly-designed skill tree. Gestalt: Steam and Cinder is a joyful journey into nostalgic metroidvania action, and a great start for a potential franchise.
Nintendo deserves and often rightly gets a lot of credit for the proliferation of esports and speedrunning, two competitive video game subcultures that have exploded in recent years. The Nintendo World Championships events were among the first high-profile, publisher-led efforts at esports, and many of the best-known speedrunning records are based on classic NES games. It makes sense, then, that Nintendo would capitalize on its place in history with Nintendo World Championships: NES Edition, a hybrid speedrunning tutorial and ongoing online competition for Nintendo Switch. While the tools are a bit barebones for true speedrun enthusiasts, the presentation nicely preserves and illuminates the joy of racing to shave milliseconds off your best time.
Nintendo World Championships kicks off on a self-congratulatory tone, having you peruse icons, favorite NES games, and "Hype Tags"--slogans from throughout Nintendo history--to build your profile. The icons are all from Nintendo-published NES games, but the "favorite games" include lots of third-party games and even Famicom listings. Similarly, the slogans run the gamut from nostalgic ("Plays With Power") to more contemporary ("Retro Game Collector"). It's a nice little touch of personalization to welcome you into Nintendo's long history.
Once you've created your profile, you can choose One Player or Party Mode. The One Player menu greets you with three gameplay options: Speedrun Mode, World Championships, and Survival Mode. Speedrun Mode makes for the bulk of single-player, and is composed of a large collection of challenges from across 13 classic Nintendo games. Those challenges are then reused for the solo online play and Party Mode challenges. The challenges include each NES Super Mario Bros. game (including the so-called Lost Levels), Metroid, The Legend of Zelda, Donkey Kong, Kirby, Excitebike, and Balloon Fight, among others.
The challenges themselves are quick, lasting anywhere from a few seconds to a handful of minutes, but the presentation immediately stands out as smart, clean design that emphasizes improving your runs. The preview screen for a run shows you the goal in a clear, digestible way. Your current run is displayed on the left side of a split-screen, while your prior best run is shown simultaneously on the right. The split-screen even has a small controller-map display to show which buttons you're pressing throughout your current and prior runs. For runs that require you to traverse through different screens, arrows will point you in the right direction. Pausing in a run is disallowed, but you can quick-restart with a tap of the shoulder buttons, or end one entirely with ZR and ZL. When you reach the final "Master" level challenge for each game, you get access to an old-school strategy-guide layout showing you what you need to do. It's even called "Classified Information," which is a sweet little hat-tip to the strategy section of the old Nintendo Power magazine.
Many of these assists can be turned off, but they combine to create an experience that is less about figuring out your goals, as you usually would in a classic Zelda or Metroid, and more about educating yourself so that you can start doing it as quickly as you can. It falls short of being a full-fledged interactive museum like Atari 50, but instead nicely fulfills its purpose of showing newcomers the ropes of speedrunning.
I say newcomers, though, because while the tools are nicely laid out and the presentation is very approachable, there isn't much customization to be had for more serious speedrunning enthusiasts. For example, the speedruns are based purely on your completion time, and there is no toggle to disqualify a run based on factors like taking damage. That means that sometimes you can power your way through by getting hit without a time penalty, and it will still count as faster than performing the same run without taking a hit while more carefully avoiding obstacles. When there are extra criteria to meet--like not overheating in Excitebike, for example--you only learn about this condition by doing it, at which point the game will automatically rewind you with a penalty for the time spent. And while you get letter grades (C, B, B+, B++, A, A+, A++, and S), the interface is oddly unclear about what time-marks correspond to which letter grade. If you want to make sure you hit at least an A-rank, which rewards you with a special pin for your profile and extra coins, you won't know what the target time was until you surpass it.
The speedrunning community has flourished in part due to its creativity in coming up with new challenges to push itself, and the lack of options here sacrifices that for simplicity. That makes it a good starting point for those curious about the community or looking for a new way to engage with their favorite retro games, but it's not more ambitious than that.
Additionally, there is a freely available challenge for each game that, upon completion, earns you coins to unlock further challenges. Unlocking these challenges gets progressively more expensive as they grow more challenging, which unfortunately highlights another way Nintendo World Championship's design feels somewhat at odds with itself. You only earn coins for completed challenges, so using the quick-restart if you notice a mistake gives you no currency to spend. But quick-restarting a speedrunning challenge is vital to how real speedrunners hone their craft, practice, and perfect their runs. It simply doesn't feel good to restart a challenge five times for a good run and only get rewarded a small amount of coins for the last one. Even a bad grade in a completed challenge earns you something, so it's often better to complete a bad run than to restart it, despite the wasted time this entails. And while unlocks come fast and easily at first, the final challenges are significantly more expensive, forcing you to grind.
To earn enough coins to unlock all the challenges, you realistically need to engage with the game's asynchronous online modes, which will rotate in new challenges regularly. The World Championships Mode collects five challenges of various difficulties and lets you play them as many times as you want to set your best record. At the end of the competition period, you'll see your ranking against all other players, and those who share your birth year--a welcome feature for younger kids who want to compete against each other, or older gamers like myself who know we don't stand a chance against the reaction times of teenagers. Survival Mode gets closer to imitating a live competition, having you race against the ghost data of seven other players between three events in random order, eliminating players after each challenge. It isn't live, but you get to see the other players' runs concurrently with your own, so it feels thrilling in the same way.
Similarly, the couch co-op Party Mode pits you against up to seven other players in one location. Unlike the asynchronous online modes, these challenges are taken on simultaneously through a variety of pre-selected packs of stages, or you can select your own speedrun challenges for competition. It's a quick, no-frills way to compete against your friends sitting side by side--though I would imagine you may need a rather large TV if you want to take advantage of the full eight-player limit.
The online modes feature a few flourishes not present in Speedrun mode, like simulated crowd noises matched to your performance--cheers when you finish, and "awws" when you fall short. They also grant you coins at a much faster rate, so keeping up with them will be a must to unlock all the challenges and profile images. And of course, it also seems like the most fertile ground for iteration, as Nintendo could introduce weeks built around a particular game or theme.
And that would be apt, because Nintendo World Championship: NES Edition feels more like a platform than a game in itself. It's a set of tools to gently introduce players to speedrunning, and to encourage some light competitive hooks. Even the "NES Edition" part of the name suggests this is envisioned as an ongoing project with room for further exploration in the future. I hope it does, because this could serve as a great introduction to invite newcomers into the speedrunning community.
As is tradition, Master Splinter has been kidnapped, and it’s up to the four turtles to battle through four levels of roguelite action to get him back. Each run starts in the sewers, moving room to room as you clear enemies and collect power-ups along the way. When you die, you are transported back to the turtle’s lair to regroup, buy a few upgrades, and start again.
Splintered Fates was originally a mobile game, but it was built with modern high-spec devices and access to controllers in mind. As a result, its solid core gameplay loop feels right at home on the Nintendo Switch. Delivering attacks before quickly dashing away to avoid damage generally feels fast and fluid. Intense fights near the end of a run can be a dizzying whirlwind as you prioritize targets and deliver blows in the small gaps in which enemies are vulnerable. Attacks quickly charge up a powerful special attack and a tool with a unique power, like Michelangelo’s taunt, which stuns and damages enemies in a small area of effect.
While it's centered around a notoriously kid-friendly franchise, this certainly isn’t an easy action game geared toward the youngest or inexperienced gamers. Splintered Fates is a solid challenge. A full runthrough can take around 40-minutes depending on your stick skills and luck with power-ups, but, as befitting a roguelite, expect quite a few attempts to end in failure. It toes the line between being hard enough to be engaging, without veering into frustrating. If you prefer a more laid-back time with the Heroes in a Half-Shell, you can switch into easy mode at any time.
As you progress through each closed arena, taking out evil ninjas, giant rats, and laser-spewing robots as you go, you’ll be rewarded with a random assortment of perks after each encounter. That’s where the strategic elements come into play. You could opt for short-term boosts, like attack boosts, or lighting that comes down to strike your enemies at regular intervals. But you might be better off playing the long game, grabbing Dragon or Dreamer Coins, which won’t help you on the run in progress, but will make you incrementally and permanently stronger. Agonizing over a tough choice is fun, and it’s a thrill when you decide to go all-in on a run and it pays off.
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, and Hades is a great game--though it does mean the areas where Splintered Fate falls short tend to stick out more. The still images used during story moments, for example, are fine, but not nearly as memorable as the ones used to tell the tale of Zagreus and company. The taunts and jabs when you fight the same bosses on repeated runs are entertaining, but, massive jaws aside, Leatherhead just doesn’t have the same bite as Megaera.
If there’s an area where TMNT Splintered Fates stands alone, it’s in the quadrumvirate of main characters. Each turtle feels distinct thanks to their different weapons, unique attack patterns, and their varied special attacks. Donetello, the brainiac of the bunch, has a lot of range thanks to his bo staff and can put up a temporary shield, whereas hothead Raphael specializes in up-close DPS with rapid-fire attacks from his sai. It does a great job wrapping a playstyle around each character's personality, and changing up which turtle you control keeps repeated runs feeling fresh.
Playing co-op with friends can be a chaotic blast, whether it’s online, or on the same couch. It’s the exact same experience as single-player, except with friends, which is great. Four turtles smashing and slashing their way through the campaign is a wild spectacle. The only issue here is the post-map reward structure. Each turtle takes turns picking their perks, which means a full four-person team spends a lot of time in menus, especially in the early half of a run where a full team can clear a room in under a minute. It’s a drag to the otherwise breakneck pace.
Unfortunately, co-op also shows just how big the gap is between the latest mobile devices and the dated hardware in the Nintendo Switch. Slowdown is an occasional nuisance in single-player, but when four turtles are all filling the screen with flashy attacks, the framerate drops considerably. There’s a cinematic mode that caps the frame rate at 30fps, but it seems like an extraneous feature given how much of a run seemed to be below that threshold. It’s not so severe as to ruin the experience, but it is frustrating to mistime a dodge and take damage because of it.
There’s a solid amount of variation from one run to another. The upgrades you acquire stack on top of each other and can lead to interesting builds, like one that covers enemies in a damaging ooze combined with another that increases the power of damage-over-time abilities. Each level has an assortment of mini-bosses that they will shuffle through, and the bosses will mix things up with different attacks and tactics. Karai, for example, might focus on throwing kunai at you between attacks in one fight, but switch to covering the ground in fire attacks the next. It’s enough to keep each run feeling fresh, even after almost two dozen attempts, though it can be frustrating when it feels like luck puts every fight on hard mode.
That increases even more after your first successful run. Without spoiling what happens in the endgame, you are encouraged to go through all of the levels more after you reach the end. This time, some areas will have additional exits that lead to harder variations of bosses, or implement modifiers that make getting through sections more difficult. It’s optional, but taking it on gives greater rewards of upgrade currencies, and, as the upgrades accumulate and you become more powerful, help keep the levels challenging.
It’s easy to reduce Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Splintered Fate down to just a Hades clone with a TMNT skin, as I did previously. And while that description is pretty accurate, the sentiment doesn't convey that a well-done take on a fantastic game can be a lot of fun. While the art and story don’t come near the lofty heights of Hades, it is nevertheless a blast to bash heads as one of the titular turtles, especially when you have friends fighting at your side. Technical issues aside, Splintered Fate is a fun time, and with a good variety to shake things up from run to run.
One area in which Flintlock immediately stands out amongst its contemporaries is its unique setting. Mixing magical high fantasy with elements from the 17th to 19th century and the advent of gunpowder, Flintlock's world is immediately intriguing. For your part, you're strapped into the boots of protagonist Nor Vanek, a sapper in the Coalition army who unwittingly breaks a seal to the Great Below, unleashing malevolent Gods and their armies of the dead upon the lands of Kian. This act sets in motion a fairly straightforward story as Nor--wracked with guilt over condemning her home to near-annihilation--sets out on a path of vengeance to kill the Gods and retake the world. She's joined by a mysterious fox-like companion called Enki, who's keen to share his knowledge of the Gods while aiding Nor's efforts with a host of magical abilities.
The narrative's simple, laser-focused approach works in the game's favor, giving you a clear end goal to pursue that aligns with the snappy pacing of its action and movement. There are moments of interpersonal conflict, but the story never deviates from its deicidal path, lending the narrative a purposeful sense of forward momentum that carries it through to the end. The trade-off, however, is that you're unlikely to feel any attachment to its small cast of one-dimensional characters, despite enjoyable performances from Olive Gray (Halo), Alistar Petrie (Sex Education), and Elias Toufexis (Deus Ex: Mankind Divided).
I also wish there was more to its anomalous world, which is only intriguing at first glance. Moments of downtime are sometimes punctuated by Enki explaining the nature of the Great Below and the role of the Gods, but no such effort is afforded to the setting and its inhabitants. The game's environments are varied, both from a natural point of view and an architectural one--pulling influences from the likes of ancient Egypt, the Renaissance era, and the American Revolutionary War--yet it offers no explanation as to how these disparate elements came together. As a result, much of the game feels like mere set dressing. It's possible I missed some optional conversations that cover this aspect of the game, but I know for sure it's not upfront about it, nor is this information scattered away in hidden notes or item descriptions.
Fortunately, Flintlock's level design is uniformly excellent. The first thing that jumps out about its locales is the sheer verticality present in almost every space. Rather than navigating through twisting labyrinths that corkscrew and fold back on themselves, you typically travel from one end of a large map to another. Along the way, there are numerous opportunities to venture off the beaten path, and you're constantly rewarded for exploring with crucial discoveries such as upgrade materials and health-boosting shrines.
You might occasionally create a shortcut by opening up a metal gate, but for the most part, you're finding magical portals that you can leap between with Enki's help. Sometimes, these portals create paths backward, conjuring a different type of shortcut. Other times, they veer upwards, letting you launch into the sky and make use of the game's verticality to traverse the environment and gain the element of surprise on enemies below. Combine this with Nor's mobility--including double-jump and dash moves--and platforming in Flintlock is a constant delight as you rapidly hurtle over chasms and leap between rooftops. It can feel a tad floaty and weightless at times, but the game rarely demands precision platforming to the point where this becomes an issue.
For as crucial as traversing the lands of Kian is, Flintlock's combat is its true bread and butter. Nor comes locked and loaded with a small arsenal of deadly armaments, including a melee weapon, a primary firearm like a pistol or the eponymous flintlock, and a secondary firearm such as a musket or fire-spitting flamethrower. Melee combat consists of the usual mix of light and heavy attacks, and you can dodge, block, and parry incoming strikes, too.
Some enemies will lunge at you with signposted unblockable attacks that can be sidestepped or, in a similar vein to Bloodborne's gun-parrying, halted with a blast from your primary firearm--the catch being that you can only fire off a few of these shots before you need to recharge your black powder supply by getting in a few melee hits. This incentivizes you to play aggressively, especially when you consider Nor's fleet-footedness and the fact you're not restricted by a stamina meter. There's a souls-like tinge embedded in Flintlock's melee fisticuffs, but it's more of a forgiving power fantasy than its peers.
Enki plays an essential role in this and the overall flow of combat. He has his own attacks that both curse enemies and build up their priming gauge. Striking enemies inflicted with the curse of death further builds this meter, and when it's full, your foes enter a primed state that leaves them wide open to a deadly critical attack. This is particularly useful against armored and shield-wielding enemies, allowing you to remove their extra protection and connect with the fleshy bits. Enki proves helpful with some of his passive tricks, too, taunting and distracting enemies when you're outnumbered.
Meanwhile, his ultimate-style Witherings let you unleash powerful abilities in a pinch, perhaps empowering your weapons with magical energy or summoning a storm that explodes from within. There's often a lot going on in a single battle, but it feels intuitive and quickly becomes second nature to pepper an enemy with Enki's attacks, parry an incoming strike with a blast from your pistol, and then transition into a combo of melee attacks before using a musket to send a small metal ball hurtling through your opponent's skull.
More formidable and hard-hitting foes demand a level of patience and studious insight into their attack patterns, but on its normal difficulty setting, Flintlock provides the occasional challenge without ever being particularly tough. Enemy attacks are clearly telegraphed, and the timing window on counters is generous and, thus, relatively easy to pull off consistently. A hard difficulty setting is there for those craving more of a merciless challenge, while a "story" mode lowers the difficulty a notch further for anyone seeking an easier time. Although it is worth noting that the latter disables all achievements, which is an odd decision when so many other games are doing the opposite.
However you decide to play, Flintlock's axe-slashing and pistol-shooting looks stylish and feels impactful. Stopping an enemy in its tracks with the thunderous clap of a blunderbuss is always satisfying, as is following up with a flurry of blows from an armor-piercing mallet or fire-tinged axe. There's a sense of imprecision that occasionally rears its ugly head, whether it's due to animations not quite lining up or the window to cancel an attack into a parry feeling too long and rigid. These aren't deal breakers, but they are something you might need to adjust to.
In terms of progression, the currency of experience points you accrue is simply called reputation. You earn reputation with each kill, but in a unique twist on the usual formula, every successful strike, dodge, and parry you perform also adds a bonus multiplier. This sees the amount of reputation you can earn go up in increments, from 5% extra rep up to 100%. Suddenly, 500 reputation is worth 1,000 and you're swimming in currency. It's your choice when to cash in, too, because getting hit wipes out the multiplier completely, forcing you to bank only the lowest amount of reputation possible. Flintlock already encourages you to play on the front foot, but now you're also incentivized to dispatch enemies as swiftly as you can without getting hit. It's classic risk-and-reward, where each battle becomes a gamble. Even if it's not the most challenging game, striving to achieve the perfect fight adds a degree of delectable tension to every clash of steel.
Once you've accumulated enough reputation, you can spend it on a skill tree that enhances your ranged, magic, and melee damage as you unlock new abilities related to each one. There are active skills like powerful charged attacks, passive skills that might improve critical attacks against armored enemies, and utility skills that can expand the window to execute a perfect reload. These abilities expand your repertoire in palpable ways, and you can also spend reputation to improve various facets of your weapons.
Weapon upgrades are fairly expensive, however, particularly if you've already achieved the highest rarity with one already. Upgrading another melee weapon to match the level of the axe I was already using felt superfluous when I still had ranged weapons and new skills to unlock, eating into my supply of resources and reputation. I ended up sticking with the same axe for the majority of the game as a result, and was disappointed that I couldn't experiment with more melee weapons without impeding myself elsewhere.
Flintlock is not the kind of game where you're going to see a ton of build variety. It's a stripped-back action RPG, sprinkling in a few souls-like elements to a broth whose dominant flavor is hyper-mobile combat and traversal that's never too punishing. It has its faults, from failing to expand on a setting that's only interesting on paper to featuring a prohibitive weapon upgrade system and some imprecision in its combat. It might not sit at the forefront of your mind for long after the credits have rolled, but in the moment, Flintlock: The Siege of Dawn is a rip-roaring good time that's likely to appeal to both newcomers and hardened Souls' fans alike. Hopefully more games take some cues from its uncommon approach.
The creature-collector genre is dominated by Pokemon and filled out from there with many games heavily inspired by it. Through a certain lens, Flock is a creature collector, too, but if you go into it looking for a game very much like Pokemon, you won't find it. The task of filling out your Pokedex-like Field Guide by discovering a world of (mostly) fantastical creatures, each with their own physical and behavioral traits, is very much like the genre's titan, but beyond that, Flock is much more lax, not to mention charming and delicate. It's better described as a creature observer, and that novel approach winds up being very enjoyable.
Flock takes place in a gorgeously colorful wilderness called The Uplands. As the customizable player character and bird-rider, you and an optional co-op partner head into a small camp where your aunt and some pals need your help cataloging the many critters roaming the land. The entire game takes place on the back of your feathered friend, and the game's way of automatically adjusting your flight path vertically, while you do so horizontally, makes it all very easy to control. It feels light and fun in your hands, like going down a slide at the playground.
This child-like spirit is present throughout the game, from its candy-colored trees and plains to its small cast of characters who speak mostly in terms players of all ages can understand, but who occasionally pack a hint of something more grown-up in their musings. I found it similar to how characters on many Cartoon Network shows speak. It isn't trying to be subversive, like a Dreamworks movie sneaking in an adult joke; rather, it treats its audience with some maturity, expressed in the words characters choose. It's immediately inviting, and the game's soft music makes for a perpetually calming soundtrack that keep game feeling meditative and decompressing.
Effectively, this creature collector is more akin to a bird-watching game, though I hesitate to call it a "simulation" since you're riding on a bird and observing animals that don't exist on Earth, and you do it all with pretty simple mechanics. There are a dozen species to discover, such as Bewls, Sprugs, Drupes, and more, and each time you encounter a new critter, you'll be asked to guess which family they belong to and specify which type they are.
Not all Drupes are identical, after all; you may guess you've found yourself such an animal, but are they a Wandering Drupe, a Balsamic Drupe, a Yellowlegs, or another kind? This is resolved by observing their behavior and appearance, then choosing their identity from a list of short descriptions of each type of Drupe. You'll get two tries, after which point the game (via your aunt's forgiving instruction) just tells you the right answer.
Naturally, the names of some creatures are helpful--the Yellowlegs has yellow legs, of course. But sometimes, more than one animal in a species may have a particular trait, which means you'll want to inspect a bit more closely. Do they have a unique gait? Do they change colors? Do they travel in small groups? Since the game equips you with some pertinent details of each animal before you've even met any of them, choosing the right one from the list is generally easy even if some are a bit tougher than others to differentiate.
And more than being easy, it's forgiving. There's no penalty for getting anything wrong, and neither is there a gamified reward for getting things right. It all feels very purposely low-stakes, and I appreciate it for that. Flock is a video game and does some video-gamey things, but it's never really keeping score. There are few fail states and no game-over screens. You're given a charming world to discover, which for me is reliably rewarding enough.
Where discovering an animal is the first step, and identifying them is the second, charming them is the third. To charm any animal, you'll need to know their call, which you learn by finding whistles scattered across the world. Both finding whistles and using them is, like identifying animals, extremely easy. In the former's case, you'll send your sheep out to eat domes of grass, thereby revealing a Burgling Bewl--a critter known to run off with people's belongings--who then forks over their pilfered item.
Retrieving your aunt's 12 whistles means you'll eventually be able to charm any species in the game, which is done via a brief minigame in which you try to line up some on-screen shapes and play the notes at the right time, effectively making it a quick-time event. You can actually fail these, which means alarming the animal and sending them scurrying off. But the number of animals in the world is not finite; another will soon appear if you zip around their habitat for a bit.
As you progress, the clouds coating the landscape will dissipate to reveal new biomes, some of them home to specific types of animals or even whole species you haven't seen yet. Each biome also houses more researchers like yourself, NPCs who offer you tips and trade challenges for wool, which can also be gathered from your sheep and used as currency to unlock silly clothing options like "Mustard Style" clothes, a line of hats, shirts, and more all predominantly colored like the condiment.
While I thoroughly enjoyed all of these simple tasks, one of the game's best aspects happens to be a bit more complex. The process of finding the dozens of different animals can sometimes demand very specific antecedents, like checking in a specific biome at a certain time of day, or perhaps only spotting them from some distance away using the game's focus mode, as some animals are shy or standoffish.
One particular animal must be found by following trails of elusive smoke; another is only discovered after you investigate a number of colorful and oily markings; and another blends in like drooping fungi in a mushroom forest. I haven't found every last one of them yet, but the act of meeting each and every type of animal in the game is actually more enticing as the game goes on, as the final handful can be particularly tricky.
In this way, Flock works opposite many other games. Whereas normally obtaining every last collectible item in a game feels like an increasing grind as the game goes on, in Flock, I very much want to complete my Field Guide. With 55 animals in the game, many of them offer these more involved steps and make for the game's most-earned discoveries. There are even a few who are so rare that they haven't a name yet, allowing you to select their name from a list of several suggestions, each of them carrying the game's cozy and welcoming vibe forward.
A lot of creature collectors cast the player-character as a powerful human who lords over their captures and sends them into battle to earn human-centric rewards, a formula that has not just fatigued me, but long made me uncomfortable. Refreshingly, Flock feels more like an ecosystem, one in which you are a member but never the ruling body. You don't capture animals, you just hang out with them. When charmed, they trail behind you, creating a parade of diverse animals. There is neither hurt nor dominion in Flock's Uplands. You aren't there to grasp nature and empower yourself. You're there to study the world and help a family member in the process. That's all, and that change of pace and point of view is one of my favorite parts of the game.
My gripes with the game are few in number. Though the game's objectives are frequently easy enough, some instructions are only given in dialogue with NPCs, and if you miss some pertinent information, there's no way to recall or play back what you were told, and the quest log sometimes doesn't say either. This once led to me being stumped for a while when I unlocked a new biome and then didn't know where to focus, having overlooked a line in which my objective was hinted at.
I also consistently forgot to recall my sheep after they'd eat up some of the pasture to help me reveal Burgling Bewls. I never saw a reason for these sheep to need me to actively recall them from a design perspective, which meant some occasional frustration when I'd zoom across the land to complete a task, only to realize too late that I'd left my sheep on a hill some hundreds of meters away. It's not a big open world, so neither is it a big problem, but it seems like the sheep should just return to me after they've cleared the hilly pasture and I've claimed my reward hidden beneath the tall grass. Having said that, these are minor annoyances that didn't hinder my experience for too long in any instance.
Flock's mostly simple mechanics and colorful world mean it all plays like a hug. With its low barrier of entry, people of all ages and skill levels can enjoy the game, and in two-player co-op, even enjoy it together. When things do get a bit more complex, that leads to some of the game's most rewarding moments, like discovering and naming super-elusive animals, or eventually filling out the all-important Field Guide with every critter and call seen and heard in the Uplands. Flock paints the picture of a world that welcomes you with open arms and equips you with tools to reciprocate the same admiration and respect for its dozens of interesting creatures.
Zenless Zone Zero (ZZZ) is HoYoverse's third game launch in four years. You'd think that HoYo's formula would get stale with yet another free-to-play gacha RPG dropping just 15 months after the release of Honkai: Star Rail, but that couldn't be further from the truth. The developer has managed to create another familiar but distinct gameplay experience by once again learning from past missteps to deliver a game that is both iterative and innovative at the same time. The downside here, however, is that ZZZ puts several new and interesting elements together but forces you to spend the most time with the least interesting of the bunch.
Zenless Zone Zero has more style and aesthetic excellence than both Genshin Impact and Honkai: Star Rail, all in a much smaller package in terms of world size and scale of locations. At this point, Genshin Impact's open-world has become almost too large and sprawling to facilitate a comfortable or compact mobile gaming experience, meaning it's best experienced on PC or console. Meanwhile, Star Rail is the exact opposite because its turn-based combat and auto-battle features are a perfect fit for mobile devices. Zenless Zone Zero sits squarely in the middle of those two experiences by combining roguelike puzzle dungeons, fast-paced action combat, and chill life-sim activities into one varied gameplay loop.
The story also deviates from what we've come to expect from HoYoverse. The world-building is still strong, but it's scaled back considerably. Instead of high-stakes conflicts with gods and higher powers, so far, Zenless Zone Zero has you follow the daily lives of two tech-genius siblings--Wise and Belle--as they find ways to make money legally and illegally. You get to pick which sibling you play as, but no matter who you go with, both remain in the story as characters who get regular dialogue. The main difference is that you choose what your protagonist says and control them while exploring the city of New Eridu.
Wise and Belle work as Proxies--individuals who can share their consciousness and sync with small electronic creatures named Bangboos. Syncing with a Bangboo allows the duo to use the Hollow Deep Dive (HDD) system to guide scavengers known as Hollow Raiders as they explore and navigate dangerous, shifting dimensions called Hollows. A lot of these terms get thrown at you from the jump, but they'll become relatively easy to piece together and remember by the end of the prologue chapter. The siblings use and share the alias Phaethon when working as Proxies since scavenging Hollows for treasure and loot is an illegal line of work. They're the most well-known Proxies in New Eridu though, so Hollow Raiders often pay them top dollar for their services. And outside of their Phaethon persona, they manage an old-school video rental store, Random Play, to earn money on the right side of the law as a cover for their shadier ventures.
Although the stakes are low as of Version 1.0, Zenless Zone Zero does an amazing job of addressing common pacing problems that have plagued past HoYo games by telling its story with stellar presentation. Comic-book paneling and character portraits keep nearly all major dialogue from becoming stale. The comics keep you engaged as they slide from scene to scene with the option to return to previous panels if you miss any information. Meanwhile, character portrait conversations are fully animated to convey realistic emotions through mannerisms that help you understand the demeanor of the characters who are speaking. And both the comics and portraits are fully voice-acted--including all dialogue from Wise and Belle.
There are three main types of commissions: Story, Combat, and Exploration. Story commissions are usually the most interesting, as they relate to the main plot and use more of the storytelling elements mentioned above, mixed with the TV boards and combat sections. These commissions become available as you progress but are sometimes gated by level requirements that force you to do other commission types and complete side activities in the city. This is par for the course in a lot of gacha games, but it can be frustrating to grind through less engaging content to get back to the good stuff. That said, the early level grind in Zenless Zone Zero at least feels much quicker than in previous HoYo games because of how little time it takes to finish commissions.
Combat commissions are strictly about fighting different enemy types found inside Hollows, giving you a chance to take control of your favorite Agents (characters you can pull for with the gacha features). Exploration commissions are the weakest of the bunch, as they mostly involve solving extremely simple puzzles on the Hollow TV boards with little to no combat opportunities whatsoever. Exploration commissions wouldn't feel as tedious if the puzzles offered more of a challenge, but as it stands, they feel like a chore. They come in stark contrast with Combat commissions, which can be completed on more than one difficulty with timed objectives to test your skills and squad building.
There are two main offense buttons: one for basic attacks and the other for special attacks. A meter fills as you perform basic attacks, and once it's full, you can use special attacks and EX special attacks for more damaging combo chains. There's also a dodge that you can use to evade enemy moves at the last second when an indicator flashes. Perfect evades slow down time to create more offensive openings, and as you attack, enemies' Daze meters will increase, eventually stunning them.
The real star feature in combat, however, is the Assist mechanic, which allows you to instantly swap between your three party members. Swapping characters right before an enemy attacks leads to Perfect Assist parries, evades, and special interrupt moves that trigger some of the most visually exciting moments in the game. Perfect Assists consume Assist Points, and you need to stun enemies and perform chain attacks with your party to regain these points. Otherwise, you can only use regular evades to dodge enemy attacks. You're rewarded for your reaction time whether you have Assist Points to use or not though. The Assist switches, along with the beautiful animations and presentation, are what make the combat so engaging.
But as noted earlier, the combat is too easy, especially early on before hard mode and the endgame are unlocked. You can button-mash all you want as long as you get your defensive timing down. Defensive timing matters because there are no healers on the roster. Instead, you can pick up and use healing items while moving through the TVs in Hollows. There are Agents who create shields and specialize in tanking or support as alternatives, but realistically, you should be avoiding most damage with well-timed evades.
Your choice of attacks rarely feels like it matters, though, as long as you can keep up a combo to gain Decibels--the energy that fuels Ultimate attacks. There are so many well-crafted animations and awesome abilities, yet they don't matter as much as they should. For example, Lucy plays baseball with her Guard Boars to attack, while Nicole shoots bullets and bombs out of a small briefcase. But I don't need to worry about each character's unique move set because enemy encounters consistently feel trivial. Unless you're going up against a boss--which are often fun, cool battles--mobs just stand around, waiting to be killed while throwing out attacks that would barely hurt even if they did land. Maybe this will change as we move forward from Version 1.0, but as of right now, even the higher-difficulty fights could stand to be harder. On the flip side, this allows you to build whichever characters you like most without worrying about any sort of meta, for the most part.
Your choice of party members is almost more important than what you actually do with them in combat, as having a mixture of weapon ranges and elemental abilities to target enemy weaknesses makes fights easier. So, you should build at least a couple of characters for each element, but it doesn’t feel like their role (Attacker, Support, or Stun) makes a noticeable difference as you breeze through the main storyline. Agents with the same faction or elemental attribute also gain extra combat abilities. It's a nice touch that characters who know each other and work together in the story have added meaningful synergy in combat.
The ZZZ endgame dungeon crawler mode, Hollow Zero, is one of the only parts of the game where you see a challenge in combat, but it would be nice if the game taught you better habits or strategies with tougher enemies before reaching that point.
When you're not exploring Hollows, your perfectly legal day job involves managing the Random Play video rental store. Your managerial tasks include retrieving overdue video tapes from neighbors in New Eridu, choosing which tapes to display in the store, and answering customers' questions about movie recommendations. Random Play is an oddly nostalgic and charming store that brings me back to the days before Netflix and other digital streaming services pushed physical rental spots out.
This old-school vibe extends to certain menus and features as well. The video archive for rewatching old cutscenes is laid out like a shelf of old VCR tapes, each with unique cover art. The archive makes it possible to replay chapters in case you missed anything or want to see previous scenes again, unlike in Genshin Impact and Honkai: Star Rail. Zenless Zone Zero goes a step further, giving you the freedom to experience entire story missions as many times as you'd like.
The Random Play store is located in the first main hub, Sixth Street. And besides your managerial duties, you can also go buy and eat food for temporary combat buffs, and play mini-games at the local arcade, among other activities. These activities are nothing special, but they introduce you to several other stores and NPCs in the neighborhood that make the world feel lived in. You'll find a surprising number of unique-looking NPCs to interact with for side commissions if you take the time to walk around Sixth Street and the other small hubs, and you can even chat with Agents across the city who are just living their regular lives.
The character designs are fun and fitting for the world. There are several factions that each house two or more unique Agents. You can tell which Agents belong to the same faction almost immediately thanks to their clothing or uniform, but the characters often still feel distinct in both style and personality. This 17-character launch roster contains a wolfman butler, a blue oni, an android, and even a giant talking bear wearing a gold chain (we love Ben Bigger in this house), just to list a few standout Agents. There's also a day/night cycle and Persona-style Social Link system that allows you to spend time with individual Agents and complete character-specific side quests to raise their Trust Level for rewards as time passes. It's nice to have another meaningful way to interact with your favorite characters outside of Story commissions, but the day/night cycle adds almost nothing to the experience other than an artificial timer that encourages you to open the Random Play store every morning and forces you to rest at the end of each day.
On the character building side of things, you can grind for nearly all currency and level up materials in two places: the Hollow Investigative Association (HIA) and Hollow Zero. These materials are used to raise levels, level caps, skill power, and upgrade W-Engines and Disc Drives. W-Engines and Disc Drives are the main equipment in ZZZ. Both provide extra stat boosts, but the former also provides a single main buff effect, while the latter has two-piece and four-piece set buffs depending on how many you have equipped.
The VR challenges in the HIA allow you to customize each scenario as you grind, giving you the option to pick enemy types, difficulty, and main rewards. This effectively limits the amount of RNG you have to deal with when looking to upgrade specific Agents on your roster.
Eventually, you also gain access to Hollow Zero, the repeatable roguelike mode. Hollow Zero is similar to Star Rail's Simulated Universe, except instead of regular movement outside combat, you're stuck in TVs again. You collect buffs, strengthen your team, and make your way to the end of the Hollow to complete it. This is also where combat finally gets a bit more challenging because you can fight stronger bosses and customize your experience, just like in the HIA. And after Hollow Zero comes Shiyu Defense--a fully combat-focused mode with timed encounters that increase in difficulty like Genshin Impact's Spiral Abyss. This is everything you'd want from the combat, but it does take a while to reach this point.
For gacha games that aren't based on established properties, I usually find one or two features or moments early on that really suck me in, whether it's appealing gameplay, amazing character designs, a forgiving pity system, or something else entirely. Genshin Impact has its vast open world complemented by deep lore, and Star Rail has its simple yet challenging turn-based combat mixed with sci-fi fantasy. Zenless Zone Zero's aesthetic is what grabs me, but I don't know if I've found the thing that persuades me to become a daily player who may even spend a little money. It feels like it should be the combat system, but the enemy encounters feel too basic and few in number as you progress naturally through the main storyline before unlocking Hollow Zero and Shiyu Defense. For the majority of the experience, I just enjoyed the retro-futuristic vibe while seeing the numbers get higher, as with any RPG.
As the Switch moves into the twilight years of an especially lengthy lifespan, Nintendo has increasingly turned toward remasters of its back catalog to fill out the release calendar. This is the context for Luigi's Mansion 2 HD, a remastered version of a relatively recent 2013 release on 3DS. The sequel is a game that served as a sharpened, refined take on the ideas presented by the first Luigi's Mansion--and laid the groundwork for the even better Luigi's Mansion 3--so having access to that piece of the series' history untethered from the 3DS makes it feel that much more valuable. While the recency makes it feel less essential than some remasters of older classics like Metroid Prime or Super Mario RPG, it's still just as fun to solve puzzles, schlurp ghosts into your jerry-rigged vacuum cleaner, and enjoy some gentle scares along the way.
The original Luigi's Mansion was a cute diversion-verging-on-tech-demo that helped cement Luigi's personality as Mario's skittish and reluctantly heroic brother. Drafted against his will to catch a bunch of ghosts, it was a kid-friendly take on Resident Evil by way of Ghostbusters--even down to the tank controls, puzzles, and interconnected mansion setting. Luigi's Mansion 2, by comparison, swaps out the single environment for a series of different buildings that all reside in one extremely haunted neighborhood called Evershade Valley. That gives the game a more disconnected, mission-based feeling than both its earlier and later entries, in exchange for environments that present very differently from each other and allow for the feeling of themed haunted houses: an ancient tomb, a creaky old snow lodge, and so on.
The mission structure focused on single goals that take around 15-20 minutes to complete seems primed for portable play on 3DS--the game's original platform--and that gives Luigi's Mansion 2 a particular rhythm. It's easy to pick up and digest a stage or two at a time but harder to get lost in for long stretches of time without feeling like you're going through the same steps over and over. A typical mission has you exploring a particular section of the building you're investigating, usually needing to locate some MacGuffin to unlock a section, sucking up a few scattered ghosts, and taking part in at least one arena-style fight against several ghosts. Rinse, repeat.
Luigi progressively gains access to three key pieces of equipment: the Poltergust, the Strobulb, and the Dark-Light Device. Nintendo games excel at filling their worlds with playful touches, and these tools are key to making the environment feel alive. Your Poltergust is mostly used for eliminating ghosts, but it can also suck up money, pull off fake wallpaper to reveal hidden passageways, spin fans, or impact the environment in a few other ways. The Strobulb stuns ghosts but also activates electronic buttons and switches. And the Dark-Light Device is mostly used to fish keys and other objects out of haunted paintings, but later is used for activities like tracking footprints from a ghostly "Polterpup" dog. Each of these pieces of gear also upgrades to be stronger and faster, but that progression is linear and you don't have any real control over which gear to prioritize. Still, as long as you're doing a little exploration you'll keep pace with the upgrades you need.
The tank controls can take some getting used to, especially as ghosts circle around a corner and you need to rotate Luigi's body to point the Poltergust or Strobulb at them. The right stick controls the direction your tool is pointing, while the Poltergust, Strobulb, and Dark-Light Device are mapped to ZR, R, and L, respectively. You can freely point your tools with the right-stick, which makes the "look up" function of the X button an odd vestigial piece of the original 3DS controls. In addition to the standard tank controls, listed as Omnidirectional, there's a Horizontal option for movement that feels a little more natural, but it can still be difficult to get your bearings quickly.
The 3DS origins have other odd holdovers as well. The overhead shots of each environment while selecting a mission look uniformly low-quality, which sticks out. Occasionally, objects will appear surprisingly jagged in ways that look unintentional despite the series' more spooky, angular aesthetic. Not all of the anachronistic artifacts are uninvited, though; Luigi communicates with a "Dual Scream" device, which is clearly just a clunky old first-gen Nintendo DS. It was already a silly visual gag in the original, but this many years removed, it's downright nostalgic.
Luigi's Mansion 2 HD also still showcases a sparkling sense of personality and humor, especially with Luigi's animations. It's clear he's been roped into this ghost-catching gig against his will, and he doesn't really want to do it, but Professor E. Gadd barrels through his apparent objections. The ghosts themselves are often funny, too, engaging in slapstick antics, especially when you spy on them through a peephole or a crack in the wall. At one point, I peeked into a room and laughed to find that I was peering over a ghost's shoulder as he hovered over a toilet reading a newspaper.
Speaking of Professor E. Gadd, I really can't stand his design. This isn't the fault of Luigi's Mansion 2 HD specifically--he looks largely the same as he did in the original and Luigi's Mansion 3. But it's just hard to look at a classic, iconic design like Luigi or a Boo next to this obnoxiously ugly design, which looks like a mad scientist crossed with a baby. Nintendo seems unfortunately married to E. Gadd as the impetus for Luigi's ghostly adventures, but that character's look has aged terribly.
The vast majority of Luigi's Mansion 2 is fairly simple, with a good sense of pacing between solving basic puzzles and catching a few ghosts. I would only occasionally feel stumped when a puzzle solution wasn't apparent, but the game is usually reliable about at least pointing you in the right direction of which room you should be exploring next.
Despite that, though, the combat difficulty ramps up severely at the end, especially in one particular stage that is a long gauntlet of enemy encounters. The combination of ghosts who are shielded against you in various ways, and others that surprise you and temporarily remove control, makes it much harder to manage. At this point more than any other, I keenly felt the lack of checkpoints. Since Luigi's Mansion 2 is designed around quick, digestible missions, checkpoints are basically non-existent--if you fail out a mission, you simply restart it from the beginning. Most of the time this is fine, but it feels much less fine when you're 95% done with a late-game mission and then fail out and need to start all over again.
Like the 3DS version, the single-player campaign is augmented by the multiplayer Scarescraper mode, a series of randomized challenges that can be played through the Switch Online service. Up to four players can explore the map together from a handful of modes. Hunter Mode has you trying to eliminate a series of ghosts, for example, while Polterpup Mode has you tracking the pawprints of a roaming Polterpup to proceed.
Despite being created for multiplayer, though, most of the time your best bet is splitting up and covering different rooms separately, so it doesn't feel all that different than a regular play session--just with randomized rooms that fit together like Lego pieces. Teamwork and coordination are a must for the post-match challenge, though, as Red Coins get scattered throughout the map and the timer is way too short to reasonably get them all yourself. Gathering all the Red Coins gets your team a post-stage bonus, so if you want to maximize your ghost-hunting abilities, the divide-and-conquer approach is essential. The power-ups are randomly doled out to a single player at a time, though, so one player may get better gear than the rest, and there doesn't appear to be any catch-up mechanism for players who miss out.
You can take on these challenges in multiples of five, up to 25 stages at a time, and then completing those will unlock Endless mode. You could technically complete these missions with only one player, but it would be much harder and you almost certainly would miss out on power-ups, so it would probably get unreasonably difficult very fast. You can also take the coins earned in Scarescraper back into the single-player mode for upgrades. However, in a limited play session, I only earned 50 gold for a five-floor challenge, regardless of how much loot I actually collected. Given that the higher-end single-player upgrades end up costing tens of thousands of coins, you can't realistically expect to grind them out with the multiplayer mode. So the Scarescraper exists mostly just to have fun with your friends, not to make real game progression. To that end, it's low-impact and breezy, but unlikely to last more than a few play sessions.
Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon on 3DS was a surprising revival for an unconventional game. Now that we've had Luigi's Mansion 3, the series has come more into its own, and the second game is neither the trailblazer nor the refined third entry. That makes Luigi's Mansion 2 HD an oddball--less essential than some other Switch remakes, but an interesting middle step in the development of Luigi's puzzle series, with its own charms and place in the series history.
In The Rogue Prince of Persia, you play as the eldest of two princes, who has found himself stuck in a time loop. The Huns have invaded the prince's home city, utilizing a strange dark magic that has overwhelmed Persia's forces. Possessing a medallion that revives him in an oasis encampment just outside the city three days into the invasion every time he dies, the prince has to repeatedly fight his way through the Huns to reach their leader and kill him. While working his way through the various levels of the game, the prince will also run across allies and members of his family--some captured, others still fighting the Huns--whom he can aid by utilizing knowledge gleaned from multiple loops.
The prince's investigations play out as a mind board with pictures of characters and notes that are connected with lines, hinting at what you might have to do next to proceed in the game. A note discovered in the Huns' camp reveals that an important individual has been captured by the game's first boss, for example, encouraging you to reach said boss to question them as to their identity. Some of these investigations require you to travel to specific areas in a certain order over the course of a single run--I once had to talk to someone in one of the two starting areas to grab a specific item, travel to another area to use said item, and then go onto a third location to see how the used item had affected the environment. Dying amid a run would reset the process, as the nature of the time loop would mean that I never spoke to the person in the first area in the first place.
This structure makes The Rogue Prince of Persia far more approachable than it would be otherwise, as clearing the first two bosses to reach the palace at the center of the city is quite the challenge. Could you manage to do so on your very first run? Certainly. But such a feat is unlikely without acquiring a few upgrades and learning the ropes of the game and the bosses' patterns first. Connecting the threads of the mind board and crossing off these smaller goals are more feasible from the start, providing a means of achieving "victory" even when you lose. A half dozen or so runs into the game, I remember losing to the second boss again but just thinking, "Sure, maybe I didn't beat this guy this time around, but I did manage to uncover who the first boss kidnapped and where I might be able to find them--let's go save him!" I had lost but I still accomplished something, and that feeling made me want to jump right into another run and go again.
The Rogue Prince of Persia has superb gameplay flow, too. Though it takes a run or two to grasp the basics, the movement of the prince's parkour and wall-running moves flow into an assortment of weapon attacks and combat moves, including a downward slam and dance-like dodge. Building on the mechanics of Dead Cells (a game that developer Evil Empire took over and continued to build on with post-launch expansions), The Rogue Prince of Persia feels like a spiritual successor--you start with a weak melee weapon and long-range tool but can find stronger options within each run. Each weapon comes with a unique ability, allowing you to approach the diverse assortment of enemies differently depending on what you're choosing to use. When I first started, I was partial to the heavy-hitting Tabar, a slow-hitting axe-like weapon that stuns targets. But as I continued to play, I gravitated towards the claw-like Bagh Nakh that could unleash a fast and deadly special attack every time an enemy was killed, and the shortsword Falcata that grew stronger with every kill so long as I didn't go longer than three seconds without killing someone.
During each run, you can also find talismans that give special effects to the prince whenever certain criteria are met. One talisman heals the prince for every fast-travel point he comes across, for example, while another unleashes a cloud of poisonous gas every time he hits an enemy with a long-range attack. You can only equip up to four talismans at a time and each can upgrade adjacent ones to improve their effects--one talisman might improve only the talisman equipped to the left of it, for instance, while another may improve both talismans to its right. Once a talisman is slotted in, you can't change its position, encouraging you to think strategically in terms of which ones you equip and the positioning of those you do.
There's a lot of variety when it comes to builds, both in terms of equipped weapons and talisman combinations. The weapons and talismans you find are lost with each death and the assortment of tools that you'll find in each run is randomized, encouraging you to adapt and plan your build on the fly. No weapon or talisman felt so bad that I considered it worthless, but in this stage of early access, it does feel like a few options stand out as clear-cut go-to options. I always felt a little bit more confident going into a run with the compound bow as opposed to the grappling hook, for instance, and the talismans that unleash resin to slow enemies don't feel as valuable as the ones that poison or burn enemies. Granted, that could just be my playstyle, but it does feel like The Rogue Prince of Persia needs a little tweaking here and there to bring its weaker-hitting weapons and talismans in line with the others.
The Rogue Prince of Persia's characters also aren't narratively compelling in this early access state. Though the quests they provide create breadcrumbs that are fun to chase, they're enjoyable for how they provide short-term goals. From a storytelling standpoint, they aren't all that intriguing and that largely is from the uninteresting characters that provide them. No one is all that interesting in The Rogue Prince of Persia, and the story falls a little flat right now because of it.
Conversely, the variety of locales and levels you visit have tremendous personality. Each incorporates its own unique color palette, environmental hurdles, and musical undertones. The Rogue Prince of Persia makes great use of color, with vibrant blues, purples, oranges, and yellows illuminating even the spookiest of locations with a mosaic of eye-popping expression. This is one of the best-looking games I've played all year. Though every level changes slightly each run, the general layout of each remains largely the same. This, along with the memorable colors, feeds into the game's narrative theme of knowledge being power by acquainting the prince (and thereby you, the player) with a better understanding of where to go and what to do run to run, like someone getting better at navigating a time loop. At the same time, the shifting nature of smaller details maintains the idea that the prince's memory (like ours) of each space is a little fluid--he can't remember the exact makeup of every spot and the placement of each individual enemy, but he's got a general idea of the major landmarks and pathways.
The Rogue Prince of Persia currently ends before you can reach its (presumably) final area and confront the Hun leader holding the prince's city hostage. The mental narrative map is also incomplete, left on a cliffhanger part of the way through. So there's more of this game to see and play that could address my concerns with the story. Even unfinished, however, The Rogue Prince of Persia is a great roguelike that offers hours of enjoyable runs. Its beautiful level design and flow-like combat more than make up for the game's storytelling shortcomings and curate an experience that I'll eagerly jump back into once there's more of it to play.
Though The Chinese Room has previously worked in the horror genre, I don't think of the team as primarily a horror-centric development studio. Rather, I've long felt its name is synonymous with sadness. The throughline spanning games like Dear Esther, Everybody's Gone to the Rapture, and even Amnesia: A Machine for Pigs is a feeling of melancholy, longing, or even tragedy. continues this run of depressing games, which I mean as a compliment. By leaning into the studio's forte, the game's memorable horrors become more affecting hardships.
I've found it difficult to write about Still Wakes The Deep as I didn't want to spoil its best aspect--the monster at the root of it all, which isn't shown in any pre-launch materials. But then I discovered how the game has been advertised--"The Thing on an oil rig"--which seems to let me off the hook. As it turns out, that elevator pitch is exactly what this game is like. Blue-collar workers stranded with a creature of unknown origin is a classic horror premise--Alien's "truckers in space" is essentially this, too. The Chinese Room pulls from these genre titans to tell a story of its own and places it all in an especially uncommon setting.
It's Christmas 1975. Aboard an oil rig near Scotland, Caz McLeary evades the personal problems awaiting him back on the mainland by joining his buddy and several others toiling away at sea. The game's early moments set the scene well, with large, intimidating human-made machinery creaking and bellowing amid a storm. Indoors, claustrophobic corridors are plastered in cautionary signage that reminds players of just how dangerous and oppressive an oil rig is--even without a monster showing up. Fulfilling any role in such an environment seems to merit copious hazard pay. As waves crash around the perimeter and rain-soaked ladders climb to platforms that feel more like thrill rides when you stand atop them, the game's message seems clear: This place is not safe, and humanity doesn't belong there.
It's not long before the drill hits something, which the game dances around revealing for a time, like any well-paced horror would. Still being mindful of spoilers, I'll say that once the threat is revealed, Still Wakes The Deep takes a turn I thoroughly enjoyed. Though the game's scariest moments still ask you to crouch-walk into hiding spots, tactically plan every step, and do so without making noise the way countless other horror-adventure games have done, it's the form of the creature that adds a rare element to these otherwise familiar gameplay loops; what do you do when your pursuer isn't really bound to corridors made of doorways, stairs, and perpendicular hallways the way you are? What if they're not even bound to any particular shape?
It's this being's alien-like qualities that are so confounding and intimidating. They feel intelligent and exacting like the Xenomorph, yet still horrifically human, which combines to create a skin-crawling beast no horror fan should miss. At once, you may feel sad and scared at the sight of the creature, as The Chinese Room ensures the formerly familiar aspects are there, albeit now distorted and tortured, like someone who gets violent during an episode of night terrors. You know they don't mean it, and if they could wake, they'd apologize profusely. But for the moment, they're trapped, so all you can do is escape their reach.
The creature's physical appearance isn't always as well supported by how moments play out, however. I didn't mind there sometimes being long stretches in which I wasn't pursued--horror doesn't work if it's one-note, after all. Still, the game's most pulse-pounding moments were sometimes too easy to survive. Without a health bar, encounters are ruled by one-hit-kills. You're either successful or dead. The in-between moments, like narrowly evading the monster to just barely close the door behind you, are scripted. This doesn't leave room for more organically close calls. I never experienced any such moments, and I wish I did.
Furthermore, the creature seems unable to search inside hiding places, leaving you feeling totally safe except for when you move from one vent or table to another. Even flashlights don't seem to stir the beast, which is fair enough if that's how they are to be characterized, but then there need to be other threats beyond simply being spotted or heard, and more ways to die than a pass/fail binary.
Still, while the game as a whole doesn't scare me to the degree recent Amnesia games do--to draw a comparison to games much like this one--I found it thrilling enough and certainly unique that I'm sure it'll be a long time before memories of this monster leave my mind. Some of that is owed to the great soundtrack from Jason Graves, who is no stranger to the genre, having previously worked on things like Dead Space, The Dark Pictures Anthology, and Until Dawn. His approach here is reminiscent of The Chinese Room's past games, particularly Everybody's Gone to the Rapture, given it's often the sort of music that would sound pleasant in another context, but here it comes across as unnerving. Like the monster, Graves's score is noticeably human, yet obviously corrupted.
Outside of the game's more direct hide-and-seek-like moments, it has you solving environmental puzzles and doing some light platforming--the former of which relies mostly on tension that, as mentioned, isn't always there, and the latter of which works surprisingly well in first-person. The game overuses the trope of marking pathway progress with the color yellow--yellow paint spills, yellow ladders, etc.--though an update is coming shortly after launch which will allow you to hide these visual hints.
You'll also meet much of the crew early on, whether it's by chatting in the cafeteria or getting cursed out by Caz's boss. It's in the moments with the crew where the game shines brightly--second only to the introduction of the monster. The workers are Regular Joes, offering no keen abilities to help you through the nightmare scenario, just as Caz has little to offer them other than his innate impulse to survive. By learning who your co-workers are, it's all the more horrifying when many of them get plucked off one by one.
Still Wakes The Deep is not a power fantasy, not even if seen through the point of view of its starring monster, as even there you'll find much anguish--too much to ever view the being as simply a mindless creature hellbent on destruction, that's for sure. It's Caz's own backstory, which drips out over the course of the six-hour game, that left me most affected, which is surely as intended. The manner in which he uprooted his life to join the rig crew is explored slowly during the game, and some supernatural elements are toyed with to drive home the overarching themes. As Caz, I desperately wanted to get back home, but the odds figuratively--and the rig literally--feel like they're perpetually collapsing around him, making his story a sad one whether he lives to tell the tale or not. Naturally, I'll not spoil that conclusion here.
Suffice it to say, the game's final moments do well to bring its story all together. On the surface, and for a while, it's a pure survival tale of humanity versus the unknowable depths of the ocean, which may as well be another planet, I've long felt--and it seems The Chinese Room agrees. It works well even just on that level of being a simple creature feature. But as the game chips away at its characters' exteriors, which at first are as harsh as the setting, you come to see their true selves and remember why--beyond ingrained self-preservation--they are desperate to make it out alive.
Though some tension is lost in the binary and sometimes simplistic encounters with the creature, its physical makeup, and behavior are the game's best aspects and rise to be deeply unsettling, if not terrifying. All of this makes Still Wakes The Deep a story that memorably tugs on your heart, starring a monster eager to tear it out.
Late into Shadow of the Erdtree, Elden Ring's first and only DLC, I encountered something I'd never seen before in a From Software game. Nestled in a far corner of the Land of Shadow was a village untouched by the death, devastation, and decay left in the wake of Messmer The Impaler's bloody conquest. There, I watched trees sway gently as the wind swept through and marveled at the multicolored flowers spread across a field of lush green grass. The twilight of an overhanging moon met the golden rays of a life-giving tree towering above, creating a dream-like tranquility that was accentuated by soft, sorrowful music. No monsters lurked in the shadows and no threats awaited around corners; there was just beautiful, untarnished serenity.
Shadow of the Erdtree takes players to the Land of Shadow, a place that has been hidden away, where the laws of the venerated Golden Order that governs The Lands Between were written in blood, and that has been forgotten and left to fester. Battling through the Land of Shadow's numerous castles, caves, and crypts delivers exactly what you want from a From Software game and what made Elden Ring an open-world masterpiece when it was released two years ago. It offers the same thrilling sense of player-empowered exploration and rewarding discovery, as well as the satisfaction of triumphing over adversity. These aspects of Elden Ring are all as potent in Shadow of the Erdtree, but it's the game's subversions that are the most striking.
Shadow of the Erdtree is full of surprises, whether it's an unexpected moment of calm, a new gameplay twist, or a narrative revelation. The biggest of these, however, pertains to my expectations. I was ready for a modest-sized expansion to the world of Elden Ring akin to Bloodborne's The Old Hunters or Dark Souls 3's Ringed City. What I got, however, was a full-fledged, 30-hour game crafted by a team that is peerless when it comes to creating worlds that feel as dangerous and unnerving to be in as they are satisfying to conquer.
Unsurprisingly, conquering the Land of Shadow isn't easy. Even if you've completed the base game and have spent hundreds of hours scouring the Lands Between for weapons, spells, and items while leveling up your Tarnished warrior, the Land of Shadow renews the sense of challenge by once again stacking the odds against you. Every battle in the DLC is hard-fought, with everything from roving mobs of soldiers and immortal skeletons to legendary warriors and beings from the outer reaches of the cosmos being deadly threats.
This is because the DLC uses a distinct leveling system referred to as Shadow Realm blessings. Scadutree Fragments scattered around the Land of Shadow can be used at Sites of Grace to raise attack power and damage negation, while Revered Spirit Ash will do the same for Torrent, your spectral steed, and your Spirit Ash summons. There is a unique set of stats that only apply to your character while in the Land of Shadow, so all Tarnished will start on the back foot. But through careful exploration and by defeating notable enemies, you can gain the strength to stand your ground a bit more.
Saying that the DLC makes the game hard again is a very obvious thing to point out, but the implication of it shouldn't be underestimated. After hundreds of hours in the Lands Between, a place designed to be unforgiving to the foul Tarnished in search of the Elden Ring, it feels more like home than an uncharted land of dangers. The Land of Shadow is a strong reminder of how intoxicating the feeling of fighting tooth and nail to survive is. In service of enhancing the glory of victory and the sting of defeat, From Software has outdone itself when it comes to enemy design and boss encounters. There are certain demonic denizens of the Land of Shadow who, even having completed the game, I'm not confident I could consistently defeat. Some move in a way that is unpredictable and erratic, making it difficult to find an opening to strike, while others simply tank your attacks and dish out retaliations threefold, ending your life in the blink of an eye.
Bosses require careful observation and precise executions to best. Moreso than in the Lands Between, I found myself switching weapons and strategies frequently to meet the needs of the challenge I was facing. Early on, while fighting a particularly aggressive boss wielding two swords, I opted to add a shield with a parry ability to my build, allowing me to negate some of the damage and create opportunities to do damage. In another fight, I kept my opponent at arm's length by using a weapon that had longer reach, while also buffing myself using magic and items to make my attacks more deadly. Shadow of the Erdtree provides an excellent mix of bosses that will test your skill and understanding of encounters, and many are jaw-dropping spectacles that show off just how good From Software is at making weird and majestic creatures that make you feel fragile.
The game doesn't make any drastic changes to the underlying gameplay mechanics beyond the upgrade system but does introduce a lot of variety through new weapons, magic spells, and items. A single playthrough isn't enough to get a good grasp on it all, given how many there are, but you're sure to find something new that'll introduce a fresh dynamic to combat strategies. I was particularly fond of the hand-to-hand combat options, and switched between the focused punches and kicks of the Dryleaf Arts and the ferocious Red Bear's Claw, which tears at the enemy with a flurry of strikes. Otherwise, Shadow of the Erdtree plays like Elden Ring, which is nothing to balk at given how refined its combat is.
The real magic, however, is in the exploration, which leverages From Software's unrivaled skill at creating memorable worlds. The Lands Between has an impressive range of locations to adventure in--the vast fields of Limgrave, the magical Academy of Raya Lucaria, and the depths of the Siofra and Ainsel rivers, to name a few--but its key areas are all spread out across a significant landmass. The Land of Shadow manages to capture the same sense of scale but is more dense in its construction. This means you're moving from one memorable location to the next in quick succession, and each location has that handcrafted feel that you wouldn't expect from an open-world game; they have distinct color palettes, lighting, architecture, enemies and sounds, all of which come together to evoke a very particular mood and atmosphere.
Three-Path Cross, one of the first locations you arrive in, is immediately identifiable as a place where significant life was lost. Graves stretch out as far as the eye can see, and gray, withered trees twist in on themselves, seemingly razed in a wave of fire. Pained violin notes and subtle but haunting operatic singing make it feel like you're in an afterlife of sorts--a cursed Valhalla. Another location changes the tone of the game to that of psychological horror, in which you're hunted by terrifying enemies that drive you to madness in seconds. It's dark and gray, with a fog so thick hanging above that light barely makes it through. It's a place that bears the signs of an Outer God's meddling and the spooky ambience makes every step forward tense. In yet another location, a blood-red sky pulses with the light of thunder, with severe and sharp mountain ranges piercing the sky, as if a colossal dragon is biting into the great unknown above. Without exaggeration, every single major location in Shadow of the Erdtree is awe-inspiring.
The diversity of aesthetics and tones doesn't come at the cost of cohesion thanks to the way the Land of Shadow is layered and connected. Looping pathways and folding dungeons are a hallmark of From Software games, but in an open world, that's difficult to achieve outside of specific dungeons that are more isolated. While that moment of opening a door and finding yourself at the safety of a bonfire you were previously at are fewer and further in between, the satisfaction of them is more than matched in Shadow of Erdtree's feeling of following a route while not knowing where it leads, and then emerging into a vast new area. On more than a few occasions, I ventured down a ladder or off the beaten path and through a cave, only to emerge on the opposite side of the map.
There's depth and breadth to the Land of Shadow; each time I stumbled into a new location, I felt a little smaller and the world felt a whole lot bigger. A couple of these moments involved doing things that are admittedly a bit obtuse, to the point that they may make reaching specific areas frustrating, but they can be figured out by taking it slow and connecting a few dots, which messages left by players should help with. There's a moment in Elden Ring when, after beating Godrick, The Grafted, you walk out onto a cliff overlooking Liurnia. I remember having an eye-widening, "How big is this game?" reaction to that; Shadow of the Erdtree is filled with moments just like that. In every sense of the word, it is sublime--a world that inspires admiration with the immensity of its scale.
That scale is no less ambitious when it comes to narrative. As always, this is an area I will not describe in detail to preserve the experience for others. The basics, however, involve following in the footsteps of Miquella, an Empyrean who has seemingly abandoned the Golden Order, The Greater Will, and his mother, Queen Marika, in search of something else. This has taken him to the Land of Shadow, home of another child of Queen Marika: Messmer, The Impaler, and close behind him, other Tarnished have also gathered in the Land of Shadow to follow in Miquella's footsteps.
The story that is told in Shadow of the Erdtree is additive to Elden Ring's overall narrative and fills in some conspicuous gaps in our understanding of the events that transpired. Miquella's Cross can be found throughout the lands and serves as a breadcrumb trail that leads to a very surprising conclusion. While the stakes are huge for Miquella, the smaller personal stories of the fellow Tarnished are also memorable. There are connections back to figures in the Lands Between and references to new concepts that make the lore much richer. Importantly, it's a story that still is purposely full of gaps, leaving the door open for speculation and interpretation from the community of avid lore hunters that From Software's games have cultivated.
Elden Ring was a masterful open-world game that I would describe as generation-defining--it will go down in history as one of the all-time greats. But, when the final blow was struck in the Land of Shadow and my journey came to an end, I couldn't help but reflect on how it has made me feel and what has stuck with me. Yes, the moment-to-moment gameplay is thrilling, full of opportunities, and refined to near perfection, but it's the universe that From Software and George R. R. Martin have built, and the stories they've told within it, that I believe is their crowning achievement.
With all that Shadow of the Erdtree offers to accompany what exists in the Lands Between, the story of Elden Ring now feels complete and its world whole, and it's a staggering achievement. It's dark fantasy done masterfully; rich in detail and intricate in its construction; a place that feels dangerous and cruel, filled with memorable characters, fascinating rules, mind-bending concepts, and competing ideologies. It's an achievement in world-building creativity that stands head-and-shoulders above the rest, with the closest comparison I can make being the late, great Kentaro Miura's Berserk. Elden Ring: Shadow of the Erdtree is From Software's victory lap, an unmissable tour de force that is every bit as brilliant as the original game.
It's impossible to think about The Final Shape without the context of the last 10 years, the seven other Destiny 2 expansions, and the four original Destiny expansions--plus the vanilla campaigns that came with both games. This eighth Destiny 2 expansion is, to some degree, the culmination of the somewhat haphazard decade-long journey that the first game spawned, in which Bungie has continually tried experiment after experiment in gameplay, adjusted and recalibrated its storytelling, and worked and reworked its approach to running a live-service game. While the additions haven't always consistently built toward a story conclusion or a definitive vision of the game, there was a clear, mostly positive evolution across all those steps that informs what The Final Shape is to Destiny as a whole.
I've noted in the past when expansions were high-water marks for Destiny 2 as a game, but this is something else. The Final Shape isn't just a step forward in a long march of progress, but, in every single way, a leap. Through its campaign, its new destination, its new activities, and its post-campaign story continuation, The Final Shape is as close as Destiny has ever gotten to the original promise of the game when Bungie first described a shared-world sci-fi fantasy shooter set in a far-flung future. This isn't just Destiny 2 as the best it's ever been--this is Destiny 2 as it always should have been.
It all starts with a story campaign that tosses you into the Pale Heart of the Traveler in a bid to stop the Witness, Destiny 2's long-gestating ultimate villain, from using the game's convoluted physics-ignoring powers to rewrite reality. It's immediately apparent that developer Bungie has taken a different tack from how it usually approaches these chapters, with lessons learned from its consistently strong seasonal stories that usually spend more time dealing with the humanity of the characters than confusing sci-fi concepts.
A coherent and captivating campaign
The Final Shape avoids past pitfalls by pulling together the best elements of all Destiny 2 stories, setting clear stakes and motivations for the antagonist, while keeping a tight focus on Destiny 2's main cast of characters as they head toward a likely suicidal, potentially world-ending confrontation. The Final Shape is easily the best story Destiny has ever told in an expansion, clearly laying out what is at stake and, at least emotionally, how it'll work, and setting players on a journey straight from point A to point B and a final confrontation with the Witness.
A major benefit to that story, and the campaign in general, is the Pale Heart itself. Expansions always bring new destinations to Destiny 2, usually a new planet or moon with lots of cool places for events to happen, but the Pale Heart is inside the Traveler, the magic robot space god that's been at the center of this franchise for 10 years. Leaning hard into that magical side of the game, we get a location that's strange, familiar, uncanny, and often remarkable in its art direction.
The idea is that the reality of the place is manifested from the memories and emotions of the people within it, creating meldings of familiar locations from throughout Destiny's history, but often recombined in strange ways or twisted by corruption. The Pale Heart is a gorgeous and fascinating place to explore, at once a heaven and hell of the Destiny universe. It leans all the way into the game's weirder side, which comprises some of the best elements of Destiny 2, and offers a ton of different places to fight, run, and climb, a variety that it uses to provide new gameplay scenarios and combat encounters that feel fresh and interesting, despite players doing more or less this exact thing for the last 10 years.
The campaign combines many of the best elements from years of Destiny 2 gameplay to create a standout experience, especially on the challenging Legendary difficulty. First, it's the most mechanically intensive a campaign has been. Just about every big encounter has an extra layer to deal with, like toxic air that requires you to periodically zap a specific object while you stand next to it to gain a protective buff, or enemies that drop "runes" when they die that correspond to locked doors, requiring you to remember which pictures you saw earlier to activate the correct keys.
The second major addition is an entire new enemy faction called the Dread, which adds several new enemy types to battles and rewrites the calculus of Destiny 2's firefights in significant ways. Destiny has added a few new enemies to its long-standing factions over the last few expansions, or changed slightly how a few of them operate to force you to adjust your tactics. Those are minor adjustments next to the kind of whole-cloth tactical alterations the Dread can bring to a fight, especially on higher difficulties. The most common and toughest of these wield powers that have mostly been the purview of the players up to now. They focus on debuffs that slow you down or freeze you in place, suspend you in the air so you can't maneuver for a few seconds, or grab you and yank you out of cover and into danger. Bungie put a lot of their focus for the Dread on messing with your positioning and flushing you out of safety, and it makes fighting these enemies fraught. They're a phenomenal addition to the combat landscape of Destiny 2, changing the makeup of fights in significant and surprising ways and supporting a bunch of new challenges.
Level design in the campaign, and throughout the Pale Heart, is also generally strong, although Bungie has opted for smaller, tighter arenas than in the past that, at times, feel a bit constraining. These rooms feel like they're aimed at putting you closer to the Dread more often, making their area-denial and cover-flushing abilities more dangerous. But it can also feel like you're stuck shoulder-to-shoulder with an army, turning a firefight into a firing squad. Speed and movement are as much a part of Destiny 2's shooter DNA as gunplay, and while smaller battlefields can test players in different and interesting ways compared to open ones, the string of them in the Legendary campaign starts to constrict some of the best and most fun elements of Destiny 2's battles.
The final major addition The Final Shape brings is Prismatic, a new subclass for players to use. Where the last two subclasses had specific focuses--Stasis was about slowing, freezing, and shattering enemies, and Strand was about tying, suspending, and shredding them--Prismatic gives you a slate of options drawn from each of the other subclasses, so you can combine abilities to make new synergies. It's not quite as drastically new or exciting as Strand was when it was fully unlocked in the last expansion, but recombining the lego blocks of Destiny 2's different powers and abilities feels great when you get the right mix of abilities, guns, and armor working together for peak build efficiency.
Bungie has been improving its subclass abilities for a long while now, increasing the ways they're distinct and unique in their gameplay styles and uses, so fitting all those pieces together in different ways genuinely leads to some clever and creative new opportunities. There are already a lot of great tools to play with in Destiny 2's sandbox. Prismatic doesn't drastically change it up--The Final Shape adds some new Super abilities you can use with it, alongside new perks for buildcrafting and Transcendence, the new "mini-super" that gives you a cool new grenade to use and some other more minor benefits--but just getting access to mixtures like freezing your opponents, setting them on fire, and closing the distance with an electrified speed boost is an excellent way to create exciting new moments.


Most importantly, though, Bungie trusts its own worldbuilding and its audience with The Final Shape in a way it usually doesn't with expansions. It expects you to either know enough about these characters to follow along or to pick up the dynamics from context. Importantly, though, the campaign is willing to just stop between missions and take a moment, using cutscenes, monologues, or conversations by a campfire, and push that characterization to the forefront. These elements have always been here, but they previously required you to do the homework of reading flavor text on weapons or digging into in-game lore books, and thus always felt like things that would be really good if Bungie actually put them in the game.
The focus on character-building continues even after the campaign, into additional story missions and activities that send you out into the Pale Heart to explore. As it happens, some of the most interesting and affecting story moments happen after the campaign, but Bungie doesn't turn down the quality in any of these missions. Some hint at specific new threats or create additional mysteries that have to do with longtime antagonists such as Savathun, but they all utilize Destiny 2's characters in particular ways. Leading up to The Final Shape's raid, Salvation's Edge, you work through individual stories with your most important allies that do even more to flesh out their positions and their personalities. It's all as rewarding from a story standpoint as it is fun to play through.
And a lot of it is extremely fun to play through. The Pale Heart is a phenomenal location thanks to its variety, but it also uses Destiny 2's long-time ambient public activities and marauding groups of enemies in smart new ways. Like the campaign, there's a huge emphasis on additional puzzles and mechanics everywhere in the Pale Heart. The biggest areas of the location include a specific activity called Overthrow, which is a multi-stage, escalating battle against enemy forces that consists of a bunch of smaller, objective-based activities. There are a ton of these, and they're all different from one another and specific to both the area and the "level" of Overthrow you're currently working on, advancing in difficulty as you complete them. Each requires a different combat approach or a different objective focus, making it feel like Overthrow is a combination of 10 or 15 public events played in quick succession. Overthrow defaults to being an event you take on alone, but while it feels like a public event, it works just as well with a team or solo--there aren't any elements that less knowledgeable teammates can mess up for you, and the density of elements makes Overthrow fun alone or in a group. It's a highly engaging and highly rewarding activity that's so varied that it's a blast to play through even over and over again.
The extra mechanical focus throughout the expansion also translates into a bigger emphasis on cooperation than Destiny has ever worked into its lower-level activities. Once you work through the hidden secrets of the Pale Heart, you can access Dual Destiny, a special Exotic mission that's played only with two players--you can't access it alone, and it can't be done with a usual fireteam of three. Dual Destiny is awesome, maybe the best single mission in Destiny 2 ever. It's tough and full of smart puzzles, requiring the kind of communication and teamwork Destiny 2 usually reserves for three-player dungeons or six-player raids. Playing it felt like hitting a Destiny raid for the first time, what I previously thought was a singular experience. To say anything more would be to ruin a phenomenal, unexpected experience that I absolutely loved, and which has secured a place in my personal pantheon of great video game moments.

There are a few other unexpectedly great bits, as well. There's not much fanfare for it, but The Final Shape includes a few campaign missions available with "Cooperative Focus," which changes up the experience by adding tougher mechanics that, again, borrow from the best instincts of the raids and dungeons. These aren't just campaign missions that are scaled to be more difficult to accommodate three players; they have added elements that require teamwork and communication, like enemies that can't be killed unless attacked from two different sides simultaneously, or a debuff that will kill you if your teammate doesn't take it from you at the last second--then dooming themselves to death if someone else doesn't intervene. It's a series of fun and challenging additions that lean on all the best elements of Destiny 2, and like Dual Destiny, perhaps the best part is the unexpected discovery of these excellent design changes.
A satisfying shape
Finally, there's The Final Shape's raid, Salvation's Edge. While some raids are better than others, in my estimation, there's never been a bad one, and Salvation's Edge is another in that long tradition of great gameplay experiences. Demanding a high degree of cooperation and communication from its six-player teams, it's just a blast, with some smart (if head-scratching) new mechanics, tough fights, and beautiful, weirdo locations that outdo even the already impressive art direction of the Pale Heart. Salvation's Edge is also a fair bit longer than most raids have been of late, which is nice for those high-level players who raid every week and are looking for a greater degree of challenge.
It's fun, in other words, and while Destiny 2 players have come to expect a lot from Bungie's raid team, the gameplay depth on display makes even Salvation's Edge a surprise for just how good it can be. I don't think it's necessarily my favorite raid, but it's a properly solid, exciting, and intense culmination of the story. Bungie nailed making the final confrontation with the Witness feel like the massive, complex, and dangerous battle with a near-god that the story demanded.

An excellent and extremely fun addition, however, was making the final culmination of that battle a special mission called Excision--the game's first 12-player PvE activity, accessible even by players who haven't finished the raid. The mission gives an appropriately over-the-top feel to the climax of the story, with 12 players providing the ludicrous scope it deserves, but which doesn't require being the kind of person who raids in order to fully experience it. Excision is its own kind of unique, surprising moment in an expansion that has turned out to be absolutely full of them.
Even little things like the user interface is improved with the new Pathfinder system, making tracking everything happening in-game or completing regular MMO tasks easier to understand. The game now includes fewer currencies and offers more clarity on objectives, and a lot of things that were previously scattered around or hidden behind different activities have been added to vendor menus to make tracking and completing them simpler.
Apart from a few tiny quibbles about little things like arena sizes, this truly feels like what Destiny 2 has always been trying to be. The Final Shape takes everything that's good about Destiny, from great combat design and inventive enemies, to puzzles and platforming, to creative encounters and fun abilities, to cool worldbuilding and excellent art direction, and brings them all together in ways the game has generally struggled to in the past. It centers its best characters in the campaign and gives you a reason to care about this war they're waging and what it's doing to them.
The 2024 Formula One season is finally heating up. Max Verstappen will probably still win a fourth successive driver's championship after the final race in December, but at least the rest of the field is making life more taxing for the dominant Dutchman and his Red Bull team. Recent races have been more competitive and unpredictable, with multiple teams battling for first place in any given race weekend. It should be the perfect time for F1 24 to launch, but the same excitement generated by the real-life product doesn't quite apply to Codemaster's latest. It's still an excellent racing game, especially when you factor in an overhauled Driver Career mode, but its overt familiarity means there are fewer reasons than ever to upgrade if you own F1 23.
F1 24's most significant selling point is its new, reworked Driver Career mode. You can still play through this multi-season experience as a custom driver, but F1 24 now lets you strap into the helmet of one of the 20 superstar drivers on this season's grid. You may want to try and win Verstappen's fourth successive championship yourself or pick a younger driver like Yuki Tsunoda and earn your way onto one of the bigger teams in the sport. Not only this, but you can also opt to start as an F2 driver--beginning your career in either F2 or F1--and choose from a selection of legendary icons like Aryton Senna, Jacques Villeneuve, and errr… Pastor Maldonado. This isn't just a cosmetic change, either, because all previous stats and accolades carry over, including the number of successful podiums, race wins, championship victories, and so on. It's an enticing prospect being able to potentially win Michael Schumacher's record eighth world title or attempt to rebuild Williams back into a title contender with Senna behind the wheel.
Your driver's reputation within the sport will grow as you achieve top-10 finishes, complete contract targets, and tick off more accolades. This can help you secure a new deal with your current team or attract the attention of rival teams, who will then start vying for your services. If this happens, you can agree to attend a secret meeting and negotiate a move or turn down the offer, with the whole thing emulating the sort of behind-closed-doors nature of sudden driver moves that occur in real life. If you opt to stay with your current team, they'll be pleased with your decision. This is nonsensical considering the meeting was supposed to be secret, but these covert rendezvous are a nice new addition nonetheless.
Mid-race objectives don't work quite as well, despite being a solid idea on paper. The tasks you're given are somewhat contextual but still disregard crucial information to the point where they add little value. It makes sense for your race engineer to ask you to set faster lap times if you've recently fallen off the pace, but not when the reason you slowed down is because you pitted or were stuck behind the safety car for a few laps. Obviously my pace took a nosedive when I spent 25 seconds in the pits--that's how it works. Rather than adding impetus to specific phases of a race, most of these mid-race objectives are too arbitrary to ever be engaging. There isn't even a noticeable punishment for failing, which feels like an admission that this feature isn't quite ready yet.
What is ready are various enhancements to particular tracks that bring them in line with their real-life counterparts. Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps, for instance, has undergone significant changes, notably around the course's iconic Eau Rogue/Radillion section, with an updated run-off area, a new grandstand, and trackside artwork. Silverstone has also been improved to enhance its accuracy, factoring in elevation changes and the track's bumps and grooves, while Lusail International and Jeddah Corniche have both undergone visual updates.
If you choose to play as a current F1 driver, one of the other new features you'll experience is the inclusion of authentic radio chatter. Each driver has a plethora of audio samples taken from actual F1 radio communication. However, the utilization of these sound bites is sadly limited. You'll hear a line or two after crossing the finish line--with elated moments from certain drivers now repurposed to fit podium finishes and race victories--and they'll express dismay after a session-ending crash. Each driver remains deathly silent the rest of the time, though, refusing to respond to the race engineer or react to any other minor collisions. Again, it's a solid idea for a feature, but one where the execution could be better.
It's a similar situation with the new Challenge Career mode, which offers a truncated and episodic version of the usual 24-race season. Here, you play as a predetermined driver and compete against other players asynchronously for leaderboard placement within a particular timeframe. The current event--which runs throughout June--focuses on Ferrari's Charles Leclerc, with the first episode tasking players with competing in races across Australia, China, and Miami.
Though it's billed as a bite-sized mode, you still participate in a full practice session before one-shot qualifying and a short five-lap race. R&D upgrades also function the same way they do in the regular career mode, so you'll typically want to complete each practice objective to earn as many upgrade points as possible. This does also mean that upgrades can sometimes fail, putting you at a disadvantage against players with successful developments. You can replay an episode as often as you like to try and achieve a higher score and bypass these random failures, but that's a lot of time to dedicate to a mode where the rewards are a measly selection of bad-looking car liveries, helmet designs, and gloves.
The scoring system is also convoluted in how it rewards overtakes above all else. Currently, the best way to achieve a high score is by qualifying in first place and then replacing all of your engine parts to accrue a grid penalty. This puts you in last place to begin the race, where you can then work your way back up to P1 and attain as many points as possible. It's a backward way to play and the mode is too much of a time-sink to even act as a viable companion to the regular Driver Career mode.
In terms of F1 24's other offerings, My Team--where you play as a team boss, signing drivers and managing team finances--has remained identical to last year's game. Multiplayer is also much the same, aside from ranked races being reduced from 25% of a full race to only five laps' worth. F1 World is back as well, offering quick race events and a grind for car upgrades if you care about earning various cosmetics. I'm not particularly interested in unlocking an official Puma shirt to wear in a game where you spend 98% of the time looking at tarmac, so F1 World continues to feel like little more than a vehicle for microtransactions. The Drive to Survive-inspired Braking Point is also absent this year. Codemasters' take on a story mode has only appeared in every other F1 game since debuting in 2021, so the potential next installment won't arrive until at least F1 25.
With this scarcity of new modes, EA has been touting Dynamic Handling as F1 24's standout new feature. It's a complete overhaul of the game's handling model, aiming to produce a realistic experience by making myriad changes to things like suspension kinematics and tire models. Initially, however, these changes were met with a wave of negative feedback, especially since they felt superfluous in the face of F1 23's terrific handling model. Since then, a major patch has been released to address many of the problems the player-base had issues with, and the end result is mostly positive.
The front end of the car is still a tad too pointy, and curbs do almost nothing to dampen your speed, but at least the cars are now fun to whip around the track whether you're playing with a controller or wheel. There's a ton of downforce when taking fast corners that gives you an immense amount of grip, so there's a clear emphasis on driving aggressively and attacking certain sections of each track. This might make things a tad easier, and the cars are certainly more straightforward to tame this year, but it nails the feeling of being an accomplished F1 driver.
The same patch that addressed the game's handling also improved F1 24's on-track AI. Other drivers are now prone to making mistakes, locking up on corners, and occasionally crashing into each other. Mechanical problems will sometimes force them to retire, too, adding some unpredictability to a race when the safety car or a red flag is introduced. The AI still isn't without its problems, however. They tend to bunch up, creating long trains of five or six cars where no one can overtake or break away from the pack because everyone has DRS. Being stuck behind these groups is frustrating, especially when the AI's straight-line speed tends to dwarf yours, no matter the car.
F1 24 was riddled with other bugs at launch but has since improved by cleaning most of them up, yet one of the most egregious still remains. Sometimes, even amidst a torrential downpour, the game will refuse to let you use wet tires. The same is true for the AI, but they can still drive normally on slicks while you're left spinning in circles. Codemasters is aware of this issue, so hopefully it will be rectified soon, but up to this point, most wet races are simply unplayable.
There are still a few more kinks to iron out, then, but regardless of these issues, F1 24's on-track action remains robust and engaging. The overhauled Driver Career mode is also a net positive, even if some of its ideas don't quite come off, yet an enduring sense of deja vu is present elsewhere. This makes F1 24 difficult to recommend if you've played any of the most recent games in the series. There aren't enough new ideas here, and modes like F1 World continue to disappoint by focusing on cosmetics in a game where your avatar is rarely seen. F1 24 is a terrific game in isolation, and the new Driver Career mode will be enough for some players, but it feels like another game hampered by the demands of its annual release schedule.
The original Shin Megami Tensei V was great. When I reviewed it back in 2021, I loved the challenging combat, the excellent art design, the menagerie of mythological beings, and the overall dark and oppressive atmosphere wherein humanity hangs by a thread. But there was certainly room for improvement, so I was eager to see how Atlus would handle Shin Megami Tensei V: Vengeance, its revised and expanded multiplatform release. So rather than repeat what was said before--much of my original review still stands--it's more worthwhile to look at Vengeance's most important changes and new additions. There's a lot that's been added and adjusted, so let's focus on what made the biggest impact on the game overall.
Perhaps the most noteworthy is its performance. Instead of being constrained on the Switch hardware, Vengeance is now multiplatform, allowing the game to run at a much smoother 60fps. Though the Switch version was known to chug when a lot was going on in its big, open environments or in combat, this is no longer a problem. (Since we've reviewed Vengeance on PS5, we can't say if the Switch version still has these performance hiccups, though we do know it aims to run at 30fps.)
Visually, however, Vengeance looks similar to the original; the environments and character models lack the sort of intricate detail you might be used to seeing on current-gen consoles. Still, what Vengeance lacks in ultra-detail it more than makes up for in stunning art design, filling the world with beautiful angels and goddesses, vile demonic hellspawn, and a blend of tarnished wastelands and mysterious, otherworldly constructs.
One of the biggest additions to Vengeance is the titular Canon of Vengeance story path, which you can choose to follow at the game's earliest moments. (The original SMT V story, Canon of Creation, is still available if this is your first go-around in Da'at.) This take on the SMT V story introduces Yoko Hiromine, a student from a neighboring school who's trained in exorcism and harbors a grudge against her institution. You won't have to wait long to meet her, either, as she appears to help not long after your first mini-boss encounter with new demon Glasya-Labolas in the Tokyo ruins while also cleverly introducing the new guest-character combat element in the process.
Yoko's not alone, either. The Vengeance story brings in a quartet of powerful female demons called the Qadištu who have their own objectives in the ongoing story struggle. Both the presence of Yoko and the Qadištu transform the narrative in unexpected ways. Not only are there additional story scenes and enemy encounters (which help alleviate the slow narrative pace of the original somewhat), but plot beats from the original storyline wind up getting twisted in new and interesting directions.
It's exciting to see how things play out differently and how these changes reverberate in the story down the line, but even so, it takes a while for the Vengeance story to really diverge from the original. You're still going to the same places and pursuing similar objectives as the original canon for a good chunk of the game--not a big deal for newcomers, but a bit disappointing for returning players.
The new guest mechanic also helps the presence of the other characters in SMT V's stories feel more important. Plot-essential characters will join your roster as guests for a certain stretch of the story, where they come with a large set of skills and can be summoned and removed from combat like demons. They don't take up any slots in your demon stock, can do things demons can't from the get-go (such as using items), and have a bigger skill selection. However, since they're story-dependent, they can come and go as the plot dictates, and they lack the customization options, such as stat-boosting incense and skill-bestowing essences, your demon units have. Still, in many combat situations, you'll be glad to have their extra utility around.
If you're really into powering up your demon companions, the Demon Haunt that's newly accessible via leylines will be right up your alley. This is a special area where you can have a nice little chitchat with your demon buddies, usually about perfectly normal topics like how much fun it is to feel poison creep into the blood of your enemies or why it sucks that there aren't as many humans around to gut anymore. By bonding with your darling little army of sociopaths--through combat, conversation, and even gift-giving--individual demons might call you to the haunt to either give you gifts (like items and essences) or gain stat boosts and additional skills.
You can also hang out with your human pals and your fusion-friend Aogami here and discuss plot-relevant happenings. The Demon Haunt certainly feels like an anomaly, with its cheery music and upbeat atmosphere amongst a bigger setting that is neither of those things, but it's also nice to have a place to take a break from the terrifying occult conflict happening all around you--and maybe get a little treat as a bonus.
One of the defining features of SMT V was its massive, open-exploration environments, and a host of quality-of-life improvements in Vengeance has made navigating a much more engaging and enjoyable experience. The in-game maps are much more detailed than in the original, and a simple button press gives you a bird's-eye view of the nearby area, allowing you to better judge the topography. If you played the original, you no doubt experienced the pain of seeing something of interest indicated on the map but not knowing how high up (and often inaccessible from your current position) it was, so these tweaks are a huge help. Also aiding in ease of navigation are the Magetsu Rails: shortcuts that can zip you from one area to another quickly (and back again) once activated. These are most often found in out-of-the-way areas like cliffs, enclaves, and rooftops, reducing the amount of finicky platforming needed when backtracking to previously explored areas (and letting you do sick-looking Jet Set Radio grinds to boot).
Demon NPC companions that find items and areas of interest on the map can now be recruited and used outside of set story events, letting you find lots of random loot drops scattered all over the big areas. Finally--and most notably--you can now save almost anywhere rather than at set save points.
There's a lot more worth mentioning: More Miracles are available to augment the Nahobino (and you can toggle many of them on and off as you please after acquisition), a whole bunch of new demons have been added to the roster, there's a mess of new side quests--including interesting little mini-adventures where you take control of a demon and time-limited trials--and demons now have unique "innate skills" that affect everything from skill efficacy to making combat negotiations flow smooth.
Magatsuhi skills have been upgraded dramatically, with both new skills added alongside special skills that require either specific demons or demons meeting certain conditions. Some of these skills are eyebrow-raising in just how good they are, as they can remove enemy Press Turns even in boss encounters, depriving foes of actions. In turn-based combat where strategy revolves around getting more turns and robbing the enemy of their actions, that's huge.
And that's something odd about Shin Megami Tensei V: Vengeance: This game felt notably easier than the original. For both the original and Vengeance, I played through the game on the standard difficulty, and Vengeance felt less trying overall. I'm not sure how much of that perceived reduction in difficulty comes from my own experience with the original--knowing enemy weaknesses and where you'll encounter them gives you a significant leg up--but with the new innate skills, new Miracle buffs, new and extremely helpful Magatsuhi skills, getting extra items and boosts in the Demon Haunt, and the save-anywhere feature, Vengeance is generally nicer to the player. Whether that's a good or a bad thing is up to your tastes--and, keep in mind it's always very possible to get yourself absolutely wrecked in a random encounter that goes south quickly, so you still need to play wisely. For those of you who want a bloodbath, the absurd "Godborn" difficulty in New Game Plus will satisfy your need for struggle.
Everything that made Shin Megami Tensei V such a memorable and engaging experience remains in Vengeance, just tweaked and massaged into an even better game. It's easier to connect to the narrative--having the other human characters in your party and engaging in small talk with them go a long way to making the events happening around them feel more impactful--and the various adjustments to navigation, combat, and demon-herding let you focus more on savoring the dark atmosphere and the strategies of battle. If you didn't enter the tunnel to the underworld the first time around, this is the perfect opportunity to do so--and if you're a veteran of the war for the throne, there's plenty here to bring you back.
I don't believe in "so bad, it's good." If a movie is especially bad, I'd sooner not waste my time since I don't find especially bad movies interesting on any level. So I've not seen the cult budget horror movie Killer Klowns From Outer Space in probably 25 years, when I was a horror-loving kid who didn't yet know he didn't like "so bad, it's good." That means I initially wasn't excited about a game based on this movie, despite my appreciation for the burgeoning asymmetrical horror multiplayer genre. As it turns out, Killer Klowns is a surprisingly nuanced PvP horror game with enough sugary silliness to not be taken too seriously. Rather than "so bad, it's good," it's simply good.
Killer Klowns follows games like Dead By Daylight, Friday The 13th, and The Texas Chain Saw Massacre, pitting players versus players in a familiar horror landscape. In the case of this game, players are split into lobbies of three murderous klowns versus seven survivors trying to outlast them and escape the map within a 15-minute time limit. Though each asymmetrical horror game has carved its own path, Killer Klowns actually looks and plays much like Illfonic's Jason Voorhees game, which I find to be only a good thing. It's not a clone, but where it's similar, it's welcome, and where it's different, it usually works out, too.
Survivors will need to scrounge for tools like melee weapons and health kits while, more importantly, locating and activating one of several exits across one of multiple sprawling maps, each of them built with intricate shortcuts to discover and routes to learn so that a skilled survivor can get some distance between themself and the squeaky shoes of a klown on their heels. Meanwhile, the klowns are tasked with patrolling the map and killing all humans, either by directly attacking them or hanging them up as human-sized cotton-candy cocoons until they wither away.
This format means victory and defeat aren't all that important, really, as the klowns may kill several survivors while others escape and the final tally may award one side or the other what's called a "modest" or even "poor" victory. Sure, a perfect victory can be achieved, but in my 15 hours with the game, the community has not seemed too invested in this, which is actually a nice change of tone from the ultra-competitive Dead By Daylight. Survivors surely want to escape, but I found because the rounds are so unpredictable and yet the stakes never so high--I'm being chased by a goofy klown, after all, not Leatherface or Jason--it remains fun even in defeat.
I owe that consistent fun to many facets of the game. Chiefly, it's a joy to run and hide from these cartoonish villains. Ducking into the thick bushes or a dumpster, peeking out as pursuers pass by, is thrilling time after time. And though the melee mechanics can feel janky and button-mashy, it works that way for both sides, so it's funny to get into a close-quarters brawl with a klown and maybe even live to tell the tale.
When klowns are defeated, they're sent to a respawn screen that takes about 45 seconds to get them back into the game, so it also pays to be an aggressive player--or simply a group of players sticking together. You can clear the map of one or more klowns for a limited time and make lots of progress with in-game tasks, such as finding gas, spark plugs, key cards, and destroying cotton-candy barriers that are lining each exit, some of which may have been fortified by the klowns mid-game.
One thing I don't enjoy is the game's movement speed, or perhaps it's really an issue with the animations. Playing as a human, I can crouch-walk to make no noise, walk to make a little noise, or sprint to make a lot of noise. Because the walk speed seems so slow, I find myself consistently wanting to run, but knowing it isn't smart to do so leaves me walking through a situation that, in real life, would at least have me speed-walking or jogging. I think even just changing the walk animation to a slow jog would psychologically feel better, as instead what players are left with just looks too lackadaisical for what the game affectionately calls the Klownpocalypse.
On the other hand, one of the game's best innovations is how it treats you after you die or escape as a survivor. Rather than sit idly as a round takes perhaps another 10 minutes to finish, you can opt into quick-time-event minigames that reward you with items you can then bestow to allies still trying to escape--dropping them directly into their inventory like a gift from an unseen benefactor, or you can pocket them for yourself in case a survivor is able to use the single-use respawn machine that brings back all dead humans.
This is a great addition not just to the game, but the genre, as it solves the oft-seen issue of having died or escaped sooner than your allies and then, typically just… sitting there. It wouldn't always work, but the Killer Klowns IP allows for your gifted items to magically appear in front of players, and it's all handled with a fun tone and colorful visuals that all scream "video-game arcade circa 1988."
Playing as a klown is a lot like playing Jason in Illfonic's earlier effort. You're equipped with multiple abilities, some of which are unique to certain classes, and each of them on cooldowns, as well as weapons such as a cotton candy-ray gun that traps survivors, a popcorn shotgun that causes its targets to make noise for a short while, and a giant mallet (of course) that is used for up-close bludgeoning, among others. Like the humans, it benefits the team of klowns to work together and have a plan, because a few feisty humans can pick off a solo klown like a roaming band of thugs with baseball bats heat-seeking for red noses. Maps feel bigger in Killer Klowns than they did in Friday The 13th, so the tripling of enemies doesn't feel disruptive but rather spot-on.
Whatever team you're on, there's a ton to learn and the game does a poor job of explaining these things. The tutorial is limited to text and static images on the main menu, and though it includes some tips that go beyond the surface level, none of it really compares to how helpful playing a live demonstration would be. This makes the initial learning curve pretty steep, as you may not well understand what purpose the game's many different items serve. Early on, I found myself existing as mere klown bait at times. It's fun to get better at the game and start to see strategies emerge for both teams, but the starting point feels hostile to new players, even if they were playing similar games before.
The game has also been a bit rough out of the gate. Besides the janky melee combat, the in-game challenges are in the process of being reset due to an unspecified problem on the backend, which will remove anyone's progress on challenges they've not already completed. It's not a great first impression to offer players a limited tutorial and reset some of their in-game progress days after they paid extra to play the game earlier than most, but hopefully it's a short-lived hiccup.
A more lasting concern may be parts of the metagame. On one hand, the slow but steady unlock of new cosmetics and weapons is par for the course and makes for fun new rewards to chase. But strangely, character builds are also locked behind levels, meaning a lobby of 10 new players will only feature two different builds--the three klowns as their starter build, and the seven humans as the starter build on that side.
Given that each human is sort of a visual blank slate--in classic '80s fashion, I can make them a jock, a nerd, the popular girl, and so on--it feels unnecessarily restrictive to force them into stat silos in which they share the same stamina, strength, and other attributes until you level up, with the last of these not unlocking until you reach level 42 for humans and 50 for klowns. Whereas the janky combat and lack of a tutorial feel more forgivable, arguably even charming at times, the game's way of locking me out of tuning my build is harder for me to make sense of. In Friday The 13th, the game this is most like, human characters had unique starting builds and were available right away, which meant more diversity in play styles in any given round. Here, the game has stripped away that diversity, and I can't see how it helps.
Maps feel bigger in Killer Klowns than they did in Friday The 13th, so the tripling of enemies doesn't feel disruptive but rather spot-on.
Still, the game survives even this detriment since it never feels as sweaty or competitive as some other games in this genre. It's as though its shortcomings are both not so numerous or severe, but also made more digestible since the game is reliably a good time. Regardless of which map I load into or which team I'm randomly assigned to, I have come to expect something interesting and even hilarious to occur with each round.
The game has a great sense of humor, like allowing for chaotic proximity chat and muffling the voices of anyone cocooned in cotton candy. The Klowntalities--kill animations shown when you eliminate downed players--include sights such as a pizza-delivery trap, a carnival-style mallet game, and a scene in which the klown grows to be a giant and crushes the human. These things are rarely graphic, so while it's tense, it's not really scary, and more often quite funny. Running for my life from a seven-foot klown with blue hair and squeaky shoes is such a goofy but joyous subversion of this genre's usual touchstones.
Killer Klowns feels like it should have a steeper hill to climb than some of its counterparts. While other asymmetrical horror games benefit from iconic killers at their centers, this cult-classic '80s movie-turned-game doesn't have the same brand recognition--did anyone think we'd get a game based on Killer Klowns before A Nightmare on Elm Street? But what it lacks in starring sadists, it makes up for with a tense but silly core of intricate maps, diverse weapons, and a more lax PvP atmosphere than the genre is known for. Issues with the metagame exist, and, like some of the team's past horror games, it's all a bit rough around the edges. But it's the game's fluorescent, squeaky heart that makes this a circus worth joining.
XDefiant feels like an homage, and as such, doesn't offer anything we haven't already seen in the competitive shooter space before. It's a generic free-to-play shooter, mixing ingredients from games like Call of Duty and Overwatch to create an all-too-familiar broth. Being wildly unoriginal isn't a bad thing if the formula works, and in this case, it does, for the most part. But some of its disparate ideas don't quite mesh, and this approach isn't enough to stand out in a crowded shooter market--especially when it delivers such a continuous sense of deja vu.
Each of XDefiant's recognizable game types pits two teams of six players against one another. The action here is grounded, foregoing much of the fluid traversal present in many modern shooters by limiting your movement options and restricting where you can climb. Combat is fast-paced and twitchy, informed by a brief time-to-kill and rapid respawns; it's solid in much the same way CoD was circa 2011, featuring a smaller toolset and tighter focus on distinct weapons.
These firearms consist of a familiar arsenal of modern submachine guns, shotguns, and so forth. Gunplay is satisfying, though, and each weapon feels unique, even within the same category. Take the AK-47 as an example: This long-standing Russian assault rifle packs a punch, but its violent recoil makes it slightly unwieldy compared to the more manageable M16A4 and its slower three-round burst. Picking a weapon and weighing up the pros and cons feels like a meaningful decision that gradually expands into dozens of smaller decisions as you attain numerous optics, rear grips, and modified barrels that alter various attributes. XDefiant's XP system fits within the same mold as CoD, allowing you to unlock new firearms, weapon attachments, and projectiles by killing enemies and completing various daily and weekly objectives. This also ties into a standard paid battle pass consisting of myriad cosmetics and XP boosts.
XDefiant's combat isn't without its issues, however. Snipers are the dominant weapon of choice right now, purely because players barely flinch when sustaining damage. In a game with a time-to-kill that's short but still slightly longer than something like CoD, one-hit-kill weapons need to have more drawbacks. I can't count the number of times I pumped someone full of lead only to be shot dead by a single bullet because it's far too easy to line up a shot while under fire. Their slow reload and aim-down-sight speed put snipers in an otherwise good spot, but the lack of flinching disrupts the entire game's balance to the point where snipers are more effective shotguns than actual shotguns--which has the knock-on effect of making an entire category of weapons feel useless.
While you're free to use any weapon loadout you like, XDefiant requires you to pick from one of four factions before every match (a fifth can be purchased or unlocked by accruing a hefty sum of XP). All four factions are taken from a different Ubisoft game, making XDefiant a sort of multiversal hero shooter. These are the Cleaners from The Division, Phantoms from Ghost Recon: Phantom (a free-to-play shooter that no longer exists), Libertad from Far Cry 6, and Echelon from the Splinter Cell series. Each faction has one of two abilities you can take into battle, along with a passive trait and a unique Ultra. The Cleaners, for instance, let you launch an airborne drone that douses the immediate area in fire, while their Ultra ability rewards you with a flamethrower to use for a short while. Each faction is distinct enough that they feel different to play as, and most of the abilities are fun to use, whether you're throwing down a revitalizing gas canister to heal your teammates at a crucial moment or charging at an opponent behind the relative safety of a tactical shield.
Some factions are more popular than others, though, which does undermine the whole system somewhat. In my experience, players using the medic-based Libertad are few and far between, whereas Echelon players are prevalent in pretty much every match. This comes down to the strength and versatility of each ability. While most of the factions have abilities that are team-oriented or more situational, Echelons have the power to see enemies through walls, which is ceaselessly advantageous. There are no downsides to using it, so it's not surprising that most players do so. But this creates an imbalance where the other factions feel fairly pointless.
The larger issue with abilities, however, is XDefiant's clash of styles. It wants to be both a fast-paced shooter and a tactical class-based shooter, but the former overrides the latter. When shootouts are over in a matter of seconds, there's no space to utilize an ability when a gun is quicker, more effective, and won't get you killed like preparing to throw a drone potentially will. Certain modes render some abilities more viable than others, such as unleashing the Phantom's deployable shield when defending a capture zone. But even then, maps are built around a combination of circular and three-lane design principles, ensuring that enemies are always coming at you from multiple directions with various flanking opportunities. Again, this makes for dramatic, intense, and fast-paced encounters, but it's not conducive to using anything other than your firearm in most situations.
There are five game types on offer, and each is of the familiar objective-based variety. Escort mode is pulled straight from Overwatch, tasking one team with guiding a payload from one side of the map to the other while the other team attempts to stop them in their tracks. There's also Domination, which sees both teams compete for control of three capture points, while Occupy features a single point that periodically changes location throughout the match. This emphasis on capture-point modes eats into the game's variety and it doesn't take long for repetition to sink in. It's also a little disappointing that there isn't more innovation here, with none of the modes offering anything we haven't already seen before.
Aside from being well-designed, the maps are visually pleasing, at least--each inspired by the same games as the four factions. Dumbo pulls a slice of snowy Manhattan straight out of The Division, mixing abandoned stores with wide streets and overturned yellow cabs. Nudleplex, meanwhile, is the colorful Silicon Valley campus from Watch Dogs 2, featuring offices connected by children's play slides and a centerpiece fountain, while Echelon HQ takes place in a sleek hi-tech office with air vents to crawl through and a spacious lobby built for histrionic firefights.
Based on the strength of its maps and its great shooting mechanics, XDefiant enters the free-to-play shooter space in competent shape. Some of its balancing issues will hopefully be rectified soon, but even then, overpowered snipers are a relatively minor issue compared to its clumsy mishmash of styles. The pace of the action is at odds with its class-based approach, almost completely undermining its focus on unique character abilities. Combat is enjoyable enough that it's still eminently playable, and XDefiant's foundations are ripe for improvement. Competition is stiff, though, and there are better options out there that aren't as conflicted.
In RKGK, you play as street artist-turned-rebel Valah, who is set on taking her city back from Mr. Buff, a rotund megalomaniac set on enslaving the populace with hypnotizing billboard screens and an army of robots. With spray paint cans in hand, Valah does battle with Mr. Buff's robotic minions in an assortment of third-person 3D platforming levels, returning to her home base between each mission to talk with her allies or switch outfits.
Each level of RKGK is a self-contained gauntlet of shifting platforms, explosive traps, twisting rails, and breakable containers that Valah must double-jump over, dash past, grind through, or smash. Enemies populate each level but are easily overcome with a quick spray of Valah's paint--it's not all that challenging or rewarding to take them down. Some provide an additional challenge by shielding themselves or releasing area-of-effect attacks, but nothing that comes close to stopping Valah, even on the harder difficulty where she has less health.
But the name of the game for each level is speed, not combat. Your performance for each level is graded, with completion time affecting the curve most of all--it's clear enemies are meant to be a speed bump, not a combat challenge. Chasing that faster time is the crux of RKGK, and it's delightful to replay levels in hopes of uncovering hidden shortcuts or figuring out faster ways to chain together enough platforming combos without Valah being hit to unlock a speed boost that rockets her forward. Deducing a new way in which to shave off a crucial handful of seconds to earn a better letter grade feels like a victory over the robotic minions in itself.
Even RKGK's boss battles are structured around platforming, prioritizing Valah's positioning and timing until the boss opens itself up to an attack. It's not the most exciting way to take down the hulking constructs that impede Valah's way, however, which lessens the thrill of overcoming them--hiding behind an obstacle and waiting for the boss to stupidly ram into it for the third time just isn't as thrilling as performing a death-defying leap to shave some time off a level, for example.
Valah's movements possess an exuberant sense of speed without sacrificing control--whenever I fell off a platform or missed a jump, the fault was mine. The build-up of the platforming challenges is a rewarding climb as well. As Valah continues through the game and reaches later levels, she encounters faster-moving platforms, flame-spouting traps, and increasingly obtrusive obstacles, but RKGK never piles on multiple new elements at a time. Instead, they are typically introduced in a vacuum, forcing you to contend with the new element one or two times, before then finding ways to weave it into aspects of level design you've encountered, subsequently remaking an old obstacle into a new challenge that you already have an inkling of how to overcome.
This method of level design ensures RKGK has a steady momentum when it comes to progression. Even on the harder of the two difficulties, you're rarely stymied for long, allowing you to complete each level in a matter of minutes and move on to the next stage if you want. Every level hides secrets off the beaten path and a few contain a handful of shortcuts, incentivizing you to replay them to earn a higher grade and unlock more rewards, which can then be spent to buy cosmetics for Valah, like outfits and paint colors.
This structure centered around replayability does help alleviate the shortcomings in RKGK's story, which is bland and shallow. Valah is not an easy protagonist to relate to, spouting quirky action-movie one-liners and wanting to stand up to the big bad but not really existing beyond those general characterizations. The story rushes through her battle with Mr. Buff, never quite delving into either character's motivations or rivalry in an intriguing way. Midway through the game, I had completely checked out of its story, solely incentivized to keep going to enjoy the well-designed levels and increasingly complex platforming challenges.
The blandness of the narrative bleeds a little bit into the aesthetics of the levels, too. Though they are designed well and each presents a handful of obstacles and challenges unique to it, a huge swath of the levels that Valah parkours through all visually look the same. Presumably, this is to go along with Mr. Buff's motivations to make everything look as identical and lifeless as the robots he commands, but in practice, this translates into dozens of levels that all bleed together in my mind. This doesn't hurt the moment-to-moment of RKGK's gameplay but does impact the overall game's memorability and further detracts from the narrative elements of the world. It's hard to care about a world so same-y, and I wish Valah's efforts to clear each stage and remind the populace about their home city's uniqueness was translated into the game so that I could see it, too.
You see a snippet of something like this whenever Valah happens across one of the hypnotic billboards in the world, which she can paint over for extra points if she's collected enough paint throughout the stage. When she does so, you're presented with beautiful works of art that pull inspiration from both Japanese anime and Mexico's graffiti culture, hinting at what type of world Valah did live in before it all became red and gray. They're always awe-inspiring to see, and Valah suddenly painting something new quickly became one of the things I most looked forward to while playing through each level. These instances are rare, however, hiding away one of the most stunning aspects of the game.
RKGK / Rakugaki is a fun debut for Wabisabi Games, incorporating an incredible anime-inspired art style into an approachable 3D platformer. Same-y looking environments, disappointing boss battles, and a bland story all make it hard to connect to the narrative elements of the game, but the gameplay is sound and the level design is rewardingly challenging. Even though the story is forgettable, my desire to further master my timing and precision in my quest to get better and better completion times is, for now, continuing to bring me back.
There's something timelessly scary about cornfields. Their impenetrable depth and intimidating height can quickly disorient anyone who stumbles into one, leaving them desperate to find an exit path, and turning a simple field of grain into the setting of a horror story. Villainous Games leans into this universal truth as the centerpiece of its folk horror game, Harvest Hunt. Pitted against a ceaseless monster hellbent on corrupting and consuming a village, it's the game's interlocking systems that make it worthwhile, even when the creature leaves something to be desired.
In Harvest Hunt, you're tasked with amassing enough ambrosia over five-night-long runs to secure your village's immediate future. The deeper you get into a harvest season, the higher the requirements and tougher the tasks may become. The game leans into some light deck-building elements like so many similarly designed games have as of late, but these cards are varied enough--no matter if they're beneficial or detrimental--that they remain interesting after several hours of play.
Played in first-person and presented with stylized visuals that borrow Rare's no-straight-lines approach paired with a rustic but comic-booky layer on top of it all, the mood is strong. A foreboding night sky hangs over the randomly generated farmlands, combining with the plethora of cornstalks, creaky footbridges, and uninviting ponds to form an initially intriguing whole. It's a world that makes you feel unwelcome and disoriented, adding a compelling creepiness to a game with a relatively simple gameplay loop.
I only wished these randomly generated maps had more variable parts. Outside of the cornstalks and ponds, there are three key landmarks on each map, like a massive, gangly tree and a haunting windmill through which the moonlight so stylishly cuts. But these locales aren't supplemented with smaller, equally memorable sites to see from night to night, leaving me feeling like I'd seen it all before even though, at the same time, I couldn't possibly map the pathways. It's somehow dizzying and overly familiar at once.
In spirit, I likened Harvest Hunt to Slender, the once-viral and simplistic horror game that randomly spawned journal pages across dizzying maps as a ceaseless monster nipped at your heels. Harvest Hunt builds interesting card mechanics on top of that, but its underlying substance is the same, or sometimes worse; the monster is restless, but unlike in Slender, they're also pretty easy to evade.
The Devourer stands two or three times taller than the player character, with a peculiarly round shadowy body sporting green sores but not much else. Given their height, you can sometimes see them coming from a distance, and when you can't, there are ways of locating them, such as placing a weathervane that points toward the beast in real time. I was often able to crouch-walk very close to the Devourer without them spotting me, and when they did, I could sprint away and easily lose their tail more often than not. Worst of all, however, is what happens when they'd catch up: They'd grab me and immediately deplete a portion of my health, forcing me into a simple button-mashing minigame where I'd need to wiggle free to minimize the damage. Once I did squirm away, the game seemed to give me something like a cooldown where I could escape to hide again, resetting the creature's pursuit back to its unalerted state. All of this is to say, the Devourer isn't scary.
This loop of dodging the monster while collecting enough supplies to meet a particular quota by run's end isn't unlike that which you'd see in the hilarious-but-scary horror du jour, Lethal Company, but Harvest Hunt is played entirely solo and serious, and it doesn't have the scares to make up for that difference. The game even wants you to consider harming the beast to transform fragments of their body into stockpiles of ambrosia, but they were consistently easy enough to dodge that I never saw the point. I always preferred playing stealthily and collecting the vital resource piece by piece. I appreciate the play-your-way approach in theory, but found one way was clearly better.
So much necessarily hangs on a horror game's scare value that I was oddly still impressed with Harvest Hunt for being interesting even as its monstrous mascot isn't. Played as a horror game, it's moody but falls shy of its goals. Played as a roguelite first and foremost, however, it fares much better. This is mainly because the game's deck-building system offers consistently worthwhile obstacles and rewards. Each night of a five-night run, you're given a new random benefit and detriment, such as being able to damage the beast with fewer hits or turn healing items into additional ambrosia when at full health, but also suffering from effects like the Devourer's stationary "fiends" calling out your location more easily, or turning all waters, even small puddles, into toxic baths.
I enjoyed the way these played off each other and altered my approach for each night. Though the maps felt insufficiently varied after the early hours and the monster never instilled the fear in me they were meant to, I nonetheless enjoyed trying to complete runs as they grew to be more oppressive with increasingly improbable quotas.
As you sustain a run, you'll also pile on temporary bonuses, called strengths, night after night until a season ends, as well as longer-lasting village fortifications that really just translate into more strengths. Meanwhile, the Devourer enjoys a single, consistent feature each season, such as leaving a trail of toxic gas in their wake.
Strengths and fortifications are selected from different intervals, and choosing any card over the others offered to me became hard since they were well-designed and would each make different aspects of a run easier, such as allowing me to crouch-walk faster versus expanding my hit point total each time I'd heal or making the act of healing a faster one. This gave me pause and forced me to consider builds to counter what else the harvest season was already throwing at me. I could also trade starting HP for tools around the map, which felt like an often risky trade-off that I'd nonetheless accept.
These many overlapping and sometimes stacking effects ensured that in seven hours of play, I never explored the setting in the same way twice. I was often desperate to escape with my life and ambrosia not because of the monster, but because of these other hazards that would deplete my HP and bring me to the brink (or beyond) of total failure, thus resetting all of my progress.
In Harvest Hunt, the stakes are real, but the scares aren't. There is tension in the game, but it doesn't rise to the heights it wants to due to a central villain who can't pull their weight. That places a figurative ceiling over its best moments, but it does have bright spots. I appreciate its rustic, askew art style and interlocking roguelite systems, which give me an objective worth hunting down in a folk-horror world that at least looks, and in some ways, plays, the part.
My biggest concern--particularly after Microsoft purchased Ninja Theory--was that the next entry in the Hellblade series would aim to be one of the massive, AAA experiences that are taking over the games industry, complete with a cluttered mini-map, crafting, side quests, and more. That's not to say these features are inherently bad of course--they do have their place--but to me, this felt at odds with what Hellblade did so well. I didn't want breadth, I wanted the series to maintain its depth; I wanted emotion, art, storytelling, introspection, mythos, terror, and magic. In fact, I was so concerned that the studio would trade in its depth for breadth, I didn't foresee what actually happened.
Rather than expanding its systems and scope, or weaving a story equal parts intimate and mystical, Senua's Sage: Hellblade 2 focuses on vastly improving what its predecessor already did so well: visuals and sound. Hellblade 2 is a marvel to look at. It's gorgeous, cinematic, and hyper-realistic, yet still eerie and ethereal. Its music remains extraordinary, and its sound design is primed to make your skin crawl. And yet, I cannot help but be disappointed by how pared down and shallow its story and gameplay are. While Hellblade 2 might be a sight to behold, its minimal gameplay and muddled narrative prevent it from being a game that has any meaningful impact on me.
Senua's Saga picks up not long after Senua's Sacrifice, and follows our heroine as she sets off to confront the Northmen who keep raiding her lands and enslaving her people. She sees this not solely as a chance to do what's right, but as a way to atone for the sins she is still convinced she committed--a way to wash off the blood that she can't help but see on her hands. However, Senua soon discovers that vengeance is not so simple, and a decision that condemns and brutalizes one group could mean safety and survival to another.
It's a simple plot that is ultimately executed in a way that lacks richness. Yet there are certain themes here that carry it a bit further. First and foremost--and as every therapist will tell you--progress is not linear. Exploring Senua's reintegration into society and how her mental illness impacts that process is an interesting concept. Despite her being in a better place by the end of the first game, she is not miraculously cured of her trauma or the inner voices that manifested as a result of it. In fact, she is still largely fearful of herself and plagued by the guilt her father instilled in her. I appreciate that this comes through in her newest journey, too.
Additionally, Hellblade 2 hones in on compassion in a way that is not novel, but tender nevertheless. Between Senua's companions assuring her that her empathy and unique way of seeing the world is a gift, to the game's overall emphasis on trying to understand the "man behind the monster" in order to heal them and stop cycles of violence, there are some calls for kindness here that are always worth hearing. I appreciated the game presenting conflicting ideas on morality and reformation, and while it did frequently delve into the old saying "hurt people hurt people," it also made clear that people always have a choice and that pain is not an excuse for cruelty.
And yet, the themes fall a bit flat. I suspect it's largely due to the game's dialogue, narration, and Senua's voices, which never reach the same level of poeticism or introspection as they do in the first game. The voices in particular often come across as a distracting novelty. And sure, it can be argued that anxiety and trauma is distracting, but if that was the artistic choice Ninja Theory was going for, that sense of turbulence doesn't cut through. Instead, I was left frustrated that Senua's internal monologue became this simplistic bit of noise that only truly offered up either affirmations or self-flagellating remarks--some of which seemed to counteract all her previous lessons learned in a way that felt less like nonlinear progress and more like a lack of narrative cohesion.
But while the voices felt too simple, the game's narration felt overly obtuse, featuring legions of words said all to convey very simple messages that are then repeated dramatically time and time again. All this comes on top of the fact that this game adds a cast of supporting characters who talk over and under these other voices, leading to writing coming across as muddled and tedious, and ultimately lacks the same sense of artistry exhibited in the Hellblade 2's audio and visuals. I also suspect that some of this would have been easier to forgive if the game's story beats were bolder, more intimate, less repetitive, and less predictable, but Senua's Saga ultimately commits to being an aesthetic and cinematic spectacle at the expense of telling a profound story that takes both Senua and the player to new heights.
This is a problem that rears its head again when examining Hellblade 2's gameplay, which is substantially more frustrating than its storytelling. While playing through Senua's Saga, you will primarily do three things: walk, solve puzzles, and fight. In theory, that should be enough to make a player feel like they are playing a game--I mean heck, strip down Zelda and it's basically the same thing, right? Yet Hellblade 2 reached points where it felt more like I was watching a slightly interactive movie. The majority of my time felt spent crawling through caves or walking along beaches, and infrequent puzzles and simplistic combat kept me from feeling any sense of relief, connection, or satisfaction with the game.
And sure, I've heard it argued that the original Hellblade's puzzles and combat were nothing extraordinary--I'd say that's fair, as the game primarily focused on deep, introspective storytelling. But considering Hellblade 2 doesn't have that, I had some hope new and improved mechanics might lie in store for us. Instead, things have been pared back. Just about every battle is the same: you face off against an enemy, parry their attack, press a button to kill them, then engage with the next one. Whereas in the previous game you had to navigate the field, manage multiple enemies, and could kick and fight a bit more dynamically, all of that has been cut in favor of circling around a single enemy until you can get in a parry.
It's clear that the reason for this new combat system is to make battles more scripted and cinematic, as it's easy to incorporate tense moments, rolls, combos, dramatic deaths, and more when the player is limited to hitting a couple buttons against a single opponent in a very small space. But the big problem here--well, other than the combat itself--is that several games have proven that fights can feel choreographed and cinematic while allowing players to engage with enemies in more meaningful ways. Combat in Hellblade 2 feels not just like an afterthought, but virtually non-existent. In fact, I'd argue that the end result feels similar to a quick-time event, yet more tedious.
Solving puzzles is just as simple a process, and mainly consists of finding ways to distort reality in order to gain access to new areas and vantage points. From there, you will find hidden runes that aid your progress. It's slightly less tedious, but none of the puzzles scattered throughout the game are particularly engaging or difficult, meaning you never feel challenged or particularly satisfied with yourself.
This isn't to say Hellblade 2 is devoid of any remarkable features. In fact, you'd be hard-pressed to find a more visually striking first-party Xbox title. From its lighting and framing to the hyper-realism of its characters and locations, every bit of Hellblade 2 feels cinematic and spectacular. Whereas its story and systems could use some love, it is abundantly clear that these environments--from the animal skulls that adorn dilapidated houses to the towering mountains and vast oceans that extend past where the eye can see--were completely adored by the team. Similarly, the game's motion capture and performances are next-level, with each of the game's main cast bringing a level of melodrama and tension to the game that elevates a script that is otherwise a bit flat and predictable.
The game's sound design and music are perhaps even more notable. Though the most obvious praise is leveled at the game's binaural audio, there are so many other elements that come together alongside this choice that elevate it. The deep groans of rotting buildings and shrieks of villagers in pain are so realistic they feel palpable. Senua's up-close and breathy panic inspires instant tension, while far off, guttural singing strikes fear. Though the combat itself might be subpar, the music that plays while Senua faces off against the draugr is intense and riveting.
But while few games can rival Hellblade 2's sound, graphic fidelity, and talent for rendering stunning vistas and characters so expressive you can tell when they're tensing their jaws, I couldn't help thinking how gorgeous the game would be if what was depicted was more varied. There are a few memorable set pieces I won't spoil, but even compared to its predecessor--which led players through tombs, razed towns, haunted woods, chamber halls, and let them face off against giants, a rotting boar, towering stag-headed monsters, and the god of illusions--there is surprisingly little variation in Hellblade 2's settings and monsters. Though the caves Senua crawled through succeeded in inducing the claustrophobia the game warns you about at its start, large chunks of the game taking place surrounded by stone isn't entirely appealing. It's yet another substance problem in a game that is regrettably full of them.
Just like the first game, Hades 2 has launched first in early access, allowing developer Supergiant Games to delicately tweak and balance gameplay, as well as add new content before its full launch. Hades 2, however, feels like a complete product right now. With satisfying combat that has far more depth than its predecessor ever managed, it raises the question: what’s left to refine? It's significantly larger than the first game too, with more areas to explore, different routes to take, and a much bigger story to tell. If it wasn't for its (currently) missing ending and a few placeholders here or there, Hades 2 could already emphatically be declared as a brilliant successor to one of the greatest rougelites out there. Hades 2 improves upon its predecessor in every way, making it a masterfully crafted sequel.
Instead of playing as Zagreus again, you play as his sister Melinoe, who was born after the events of the first game. Her family has been lost to the underworld, after the titan Chronos usurps the throne and takes over Hades' domain. Melinoe, saved from the unknown fate of her family, has been raised to realize one simple goal: Death to Chronos. With the help of her mentor, fellow titan Hecate, and a cast of new and returning gods, shades, and all those in between, Hades 2 sets out strongly from the get go with a story that is gripping to watch unfold between runs.
For all of its improvements, Hades 2 doesn't initially look or feel that different. Melinoe moves with the same speed and grace as her brother, albeit with some slight changes. Unlike Zagreus, Melinoe is far less dash happy, with a longer cooldown between each of her evasive bursts of speed that's initially awkward to get used to. This is offset by a greater emphasis on maintaining speed through sprinting, which you engage by holding down the dash button right after executing it. This sprint provides the same degree of damage-avoidance, but feeds into additional offensive options too. And some enemies are designed specifically to punish a reliance on just dashing to encourage a shift in mindset. This sprint can also be upgraded with boons in a similar fashion to your standard attacks, letting your sprint shock foes with Zeus' lighting, or knock back entire groups of them with the powerful waves of Poseidon. This tangible change is a taste of how Hades 2 approaches evolving a strong, established formula by making small, sometimes experimentative, changes that have a profound effect on the way you approach gameplay.
Nowhere is this more evident than the expansion of Melinoe's offensive repertoire. She maintains the trio of options that her brother had with standard, special, and cast attacks; both the standard and special attacks are determined by your weapon selection before runs. This is already delightfully varied, with the starting Witch Staff offering a nice balance between safe ranged melee strikes, while others, such as the Sister Blades, demand a bolder approach since their limited range forces you to really get in the face of enemies before backing out to safety. Melinoe's cast is also far more involved than Zagreus' awkward red diamond projectile. In keeping with her witch abilities, Melinoe can throw down a circular ring that confines enemies inside it for a brief period of time, making it an effective crowd-controlling option at its default tier. Boons from the gods can radically evolve it though, letting you turn the defensive snare into a more offensive area of effect spell that decimates large groups of foes or inflicts harmful curses on them. These can also be combined with other boons that you have augmenting your standard weapons to create a deadly mixture of skills. Between the five currently available weapons and this new standard casting ability, Hades II already allows you to drastically differentiate your runs based on the equipment you choose before you start, keeping each one tactically engaging and satisfying to utilize.
Where weapons were the sole differentiator to combat in Hades, its sequel layers on a whole new system to consider too. Melinoe has an all-new Omega attack available to her, which is available on top of your three combat abilities to further deepen the complexity of the entire combat system. These are powerful abilities that differ between each weapon, usually requiring a brief window to channel before you unleash them, meaning their usage needs to be considered and deliberate. They're quite varied too; the Witch Staff lets you fire off a wave of damage in front and behind you when channeling its standard attack, while the Sister Blades instead give you the ability to teleport to a distant enemy when engaging an Omega attack on the same button press. Each of these Omega abilities is powered by magic, a new resource that you'll have to carefully manage to get the most out of your build. Magic is replenished between each room you travel to, so you’re encouraged to maximize its usage for the battle at hand rather than forcing you to forgo it for a boss later on. Omega attacks can be unleashed frequently, and new abilities from boons feel increasingly powerful as they tap into the resource too. Magic has a powerful impact on the way Hades 2 plays, drastically changing how the game plays and feels, making its predecessor feel quite plain by comparison.
Additional combat variety is afforded to Melinoe thanks to all the gifts she's bestowed by the various gods of Olympus. There's familiar faces such as Aphrodite and Hermes, as well as entirely new ones. Hestia, for example, offers her flame-damage dealing boons as a way to introduce damage-over-time strategies to Melinoe’s repertoire, while Hera's tricky-to-master Hitch curse lets you deal damage to those you've already marked simultaneously. Each boon gives you specific elemental abilities to play around with, letting you cobble together a combination that plays off each one's strengths to make the most of a run. With more boons in the mix, as well as more ways to utilize the themes of existing ones across the swathe of new offensive options, there's a greater depth to Hades 2's builds that keeps each run feeling viable and exciting. It's completely possible to have a run where the randomness of the boons lead to a doomed endeavor, but because of its expanded combat options and ways in which they can be enhanced, I'm confident that it's happening far less than in the first game.
Hades 2 could already emphatically be declared as a brilliant successor to one of the greatest rougelites out there ... [it] improves upon its predecessor in every way, making it a masterfully crafted sequel
This additional depth to combat is kept entertaining thanks to an entirely new roster of enemies to contend with, many of which demand a quick understanding of the new combat avenues available to you and how best to take advantage of them. Simple, slow-swinging brutes might be commonplace in the first few encounters of a run, but they're quickly supplanted by seemingly neverending waves of small but deadly floating fish in later ones, or heavily armored soldiers that require quick reflexes to keep out of their wide-reaching melee strikes. Boss encounters are the true standouts though, ranging from an interesting roster of mid-bosses that you'll encounter quite frequently, to the show-stopping skirmishes that await you at the end of each biome. These are massive climatic battles against Hades 2's most challenging foes, each with their own fascinating theme around them. A standout is Scylla and the Sirens, which pits you against three foes with distinct abilities in a musically charged battle that borders on overwhelming the first few times you undertake it. It's a layered battle that challenges you to cleverly balance which one of the three you're going to focus on at a given time in order to take out their respective attack from the equation. This battle is an experience that's accentuated by Hades 2's exceptional soundtrack, composed again by Darren Korb. The music melds a thumping double-bass and roaring electric guitar with the smooth vocals of Ashley Barret, who continues to outdo themselves with each new game they feature in.
Each of Hades 2's biomes also marks a departure from the environments from the first game, which might be relieving to hear given you'll be mostly traversing the depths of Hades again, albeit on a journey downwards rather than up. Alternative paths lead you to new areas that are bursting with color and character, with Supergiant's distinctive art style shown in its best light here. The third biome currently feels like an outlier, trading the tight combat spaces for a more open approach to exploration that sometimes makes the path forward a little difficult to discern. But it's a small blip on an otherwise outstanding reimagining of the depths of hell, which is accentuated by the nostalgic return of familiar spaces in the game's later, and more climatic, sections. It's surprising too that traversing the depth of Hades is not the only path you can take for a run, with an entirely different route to take during a run opened a few hours into your playthrough.. The choice of which narrative thread to follow, along with the quantity of content it added to the overall package, just further shows how much more ambitious Supergiant is with its first-ever sequel.
While you'll spend the majority of your time dungeon-crawling your way to success, Hades 2 puts a bigger emphasis on what you do in between runs too. The Crossroads, a refuge that sits between the base of Mount Olympus and the depth of Hades, acts as the sequel's analog to the House of Hades, offering up a multitude of base-building options that all have tangible effects on your effectiveness during runs. A large, bubbling cauldron in the center lets you combine resources to unlock new parts of the Crossroads, as well as helpful shops and newer resource types to collect during runs. A small garden lets you plant specific seeds that sprout while you're out, folding back into the requirements for more expansion via the aforementioned cauldron. There are familiars to recruits, a training ground to hone your skills, and a variety of vendors to shop with in order to prepare to make the best of each run before you set out.
Paramount to character progression is a new arcana card system that replaces Zagreus's sometimes one-dimensional upgrade mirror from the first game. It's split into two components: one is a massive tree of unlockable arcana cards, each of which gives you an advantage of some sort during your run. This can be as simple as rewarding you with a Death Defiance, which keeps you alive after an otherwise fatal blow, or buffing your total magic and health even before a run starts. Others, like giving you the ability to deal additional damage to foes with two curses, or buffing damage as long as your magic isn't fully replenished, define a tone and strategy to your run before starting, helping you craft your play style accordingly as you go. The number of arcana cards you can equip is determined by your Grasp; a numerical total that you can expand with a different resource as you chip away at runs. Each card has an associated cost depending on its overall effect, so you're challenged to balance which ones to equip based on your capabilities at a given time. The more cards you unlock, and the more Grasp you obtain, the bigger advantage you take into a run, and thus the greater chance you have of completion. It's a far more dynamic system than the on-off switches in the previous game, tying in nicely to the already deeper choices you have available in combat.
Core too to the Crossroads, and integral to the way Hades 2 tells its tale, is the assortment of characters you can converse with between each run. Just like the first game, this is where Hades 2 really distinguishes itself from its peers in the genre, with the unbelievable way in which its script incorporates each of your actions fluidly into its core narrative to make it feel like this script is being written as you play. The new characters within the Crossroads are just as interesting and varied as they were before, whether you're confiding in the sassy but insecure shade Dora, discussing strategy with Odysseus, or brushing up against the prickly nature of another of Nyx's offspring, Nemesis. There's a more dire tone to the overall narrative given the impetus to save your family and reclaim your right as heir to Hades, as opposed to the sometimes shallow rebellious plight of Zagreus, but it's interwoven deftly without removing the brevity and sometimes hilarious writing that keeps this tale just as endearing.
Being in early access, there's still the potential for a lot of these mechanics to change, and Supergiant has already made it clear with its first patch that it's willing to take big swings. Prior to the update, resource gathering was limited to an unlockable tool you could equip, limiting you to that specific resource in a run. That's been removed entirely now, letting you gather any resource you've unlocked a tool for at any time, and instead just prioritizing the likelihood of a resource associated with a particular tool appearing if you equip it. This drastically reduces a lot of early-game grinding and gets you going with upgrades a lot quicker, which changes the balance greatly from what was initially established. It's impossible to tell how much more might change before Supergiant plans to launch Hades 2 in a 1.0 state sometime next year, but it's an indication of how this otherwise complete-feeling product still has room to improve.
On the horizon, Hades 2 still has a new area that is planned to be added, additional weapons, and some missing character art to fill in. And, most importantly, it has an ending to its story to introduce, but none of this hampers the engrossing experience that's available today. It's a drastic difference from the first game's launch, which felt far earlier in the process and required nearly two years to reach a complete state. As it stands, Hades 2 is already one of the best roguelite experiences you can play today, with clever improvements on its established formula that just accentuate its strongest attributes. More importantly, it does this without requiring you to be the most well-versed player on what came before, but not at the expense of offering a new challenge to those that have spent hours digging away at the first game's most brutal endeavors. Hades 2 is a game that I'm incredibly excited to continue playing every day, and it feels like a treat that it could get even better as time ticks away.
Let's get straight to the (unsurprising) statement: Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door for Nintendo Switch is an incredible turn-based RPG that is every bit as charming, witty, and joyful today as it was two decades ago. Much like 2023's Super Mario RPG, Nintendo didn't mess with the formula so this is the game you know and love, only it's prettier, sounds better, and includes several meaningful quality-of-life updates. But whereas Super Mario RPG was quite obviously an old game reborn for a new generation, Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door stands toe-to-toe with the best turn-based RPGs of the current console generation.
Considering Paper Mario's bizarre history over the past two decades, newcomers would be forgiven for not knowing what the heck to expect in The Thousand-Year Door. To be blunt, Paper Mario's original identity and soul disappeared in the wake of The Thousand-Year Door. Today, Paper Mario is perhaps best-known as the Mario series that can't seem to pick a genre. But The Thousand-Year Door, much like its N64 predecessor, follows the tradition of Super Mario RPG and is more aligned with the Mario & Luigi series--the now-defunct series that pushed Paper Mario out of the genre--than any of the Paper Mario games that came after it, including The Origami King. And The Thousand-Year Door's Switch version further solidifies its spot at the top of the Mario RPG tier list.
The visual upgrade is more of a fresh coat of paint than a total overhaul. Its storybook aesthetic with pop-up characters and environmental trappings had a timeless quality to it already, but the new widescreen presentation, with its vivid colors and crisp textures, brings memorable locations up to modern standards. The lush flowers and white-petaled trees of Boggly Woods are stunning, Twilight Town's and Creepy Steeple's gloominess is heightened (especially on Switch OLED), and better lighting and shadows make the waters around Keelhaul Key really pop. Environments aren't as richly layered as you'd find in The Origami King, but The Thousand-Year Door is still a beautiful game that could pass for a native Switch title.
It runs exceptionally well, too. I didn't experience a single drop in performance in my 41 hours (and counting) in docked or handheld modes. Snappy load times, instantaneous saving, consistently smooth animations, precise input recognition for timing-based Action Commands–this is about as good as it gets for an enhanced version of an all-time classic.
The GameCube version had one of the best soundtracks beneath the entire Super Mario umbrella. I'd actually say the remixed soundtrack is more of a revamp than the visuals. Don't worry, you get a badge early on that lets you switch back to the original without using any Badge Points, for those who want the classic musical accompaniment. Nostalgia will likely prevail for some, but I'd strongly urge longtime fans to give the new OST a try in each chapter. Along with remixed tracks, individualized battle themes capture the vibe of each locale, so the new tunes elevate the already superb turn-based combat system.
For the most part, the Switch version mirrors the gameplay of the original. That said, the handful of newly implemented features make a meaningful impact, most notably with regards to respecting your time. If you played the original, you surely remember the General White wild goose chase that involved significant, tedious backtracking. The new fast-travel room beneath Rogueport town square remedies that annoyance and plenty more. After completing each chapter, a new warp pipe that can instantly send you back to the central area of each chapter appears. In addition to fixing the near-infamous General White fiasco, fast travel is extremely useful for quickly revisiting locations after more partners with new abilities join your team. Backtracking was always necessary to secure certain items, including a few key ones, and now it's a more streamlined and enjoyable process.
Similarly, Game Over no longer means automatically starting at the last save block. Along with numerous auto-save moments throughout the campaign, you now have the choice of whether to return to your last save or try the scene again after you fall in battle. Game Over in the original sometimes meant losing 30 minutes or more of progress, but now you can start in the same room you met your demise in. Critically, your stats return to what they were when you entered the room. So if you were in bad shape before, you'll still be in bad shape. You still need to reach a save block to actually record your progress, but restarting from the scene simply means you don't have to replay content you already conquered. And since The Thousand-Year Door is a 30-plus hour RPG, any feature centered on respecting my time is greatly appreciated.
Another useful new feature is the Partner Ring, a wheel you can pull up with the press of a button and scroll through to instantly swap partners instead of opening the full menu. This may sound small, but since only one of Mario's six or seven partners (one is optional) can accompany him at any given moment, instant swapping is ultimately an impactful change. Partners play a big role in solving puzzles and making progress through each area, as they have unique abilities that are used regularly to interact with your surroundings. For instance, former stage actress Madame Flurrie can blow gusts of wind that remove peeling paper from walls to reveal hidden passages and treasures. Hopping on Yoshi's back increases movement speed and lets you flutter across longer gaps. Meanwhile, Koops, a brave little Koopa with a long-lost dad, has a shell toss move that snags unreachable items and activates time-sensitive switches. Admiral Bobbery, a sailor Bob-omb with a thick mustache and a broken heart, can blow up cracked walls. There are times when you need to use multiple partner abilities in fairly quick succession, so the new wheel, however small it may sound, really made a difference in terms of keeping me in the flow.
The other main improvements make The Thousand-Year Door more inviting to new players and limit the number of progression roadblocks. If you get stuck at any point, pressing ZL initiates a partner hint. Many of the general progression hints are relayed by Mario's first companion Goombella, but other partners will chime in if the task at hand relies on their abilities. A new NPC also points you in the right direction for Trouble Center sidequests if you need help. These fairly sophisticated systems add many, many new lines of dialogue. It's one of the better hint systems I've seen in a game, as it provides truly useful clues without fully spelling it out for you. It's a nudge in the right direction and will keep those who don't care for puzzles moving along to the next story beat or battle sequence.
Speaking of battles, the turn-based encounters are unchanged, which means there's a huge catalog of Action Commands to master, each of which requires nuanced and well-timed inputs to inflict maximum damage and block incoming attacks. The user interface and on-screen prompts received a facelift, but the movesets for Mario and his seven partners, special attacks, and library of badges align with the original. For newcomers or those looking for a refresher, that's where the Battle Master can be helpful. The new NPC hangs out near the new fast-travel warp pipes in each main area. The Battle Master will set up dummy enemies on a rehearsal stage so you can practice Action Commands, and they also have a long list of tips and explainers that steadily grows as you unlock new partners and moves.
It's easy to understand why the battle and overarching progression systems weren't altered. The Thousand-Year Door has the best combat mechanics of any Mario role-playing game, Paper variety or not. On defense, Action Commands adhere to the single button press timing mechanic of Super Mario RPG, but Mario's and his partner's moves evolve far beyond that straightforward action. Some ask you to hold and release buttons with the right timing, others involve flicking the analog stick or pressing a sequence of buttons. Story-based upgrades and badges further modify Mario's comically large hammer swings and famous jump attacks.
Badges modify stats and essentially act as the gear system. Outside of basic attacks, all battle moves consume FP (Flower Points). Since I loved using some of the high-cost FP moves, I made sure to equip badges that lowered the consumption of FP and regenerated points with successful strikes. The badge system is quite versatile, allowing you to tailor your setup to your play style. While there are 86 badges in all--one more than before due to the original soundtrack badge--you are limited by Mario's BP (Badge Points).
When Mario levels up, you can choose one of three core stats to upgrade: HP, FP, or BP. Mario is the only character with a traditional leveling system, so FP and BP are essentially shared pools for the whole seven- to eight-character team. It sounds peculiar, but it works exceedingly well. On top of that, this quirk rewards exploration, as you need three Shine Sprites to "level up" each partner to unlock new moves and remain on mostly equal footing with Mario in terms of attack power and HP. There are 42 Shine Sprites scattered across the Mushroom Kingdom, so you can level up each partner twice. If you don't increase the stats of your partners in the back half of the game, they will likely get wrecked by virtually any of the many dozens of enemies, from Hammer Bros and Chain Chomps to Magikoopas and Frost Piranhas. And if not by any regular enemies, late-game bosses will probably do the trick--unless you are really good at Superguarding.
Though I wouldn't call The Thousand-Year Door an exceedingly challenging game, it's superbly balanced, with enough bite to add tension to many battles. Limiting Mario to fighting alongside one partner at a time and arranging enemies in a straight line, rather than side by side--which effectively shields the back of the line from certain attacks--makes your battle partner and move choices matter. Despite routinely countering enemy attacks, I still saw the Game Over screen a handful of times. More importantly, I was pushed to the brink on many other occasions. Perhaps most importantly, I fought nearly every enemy I saw wandering the overworld, and I never felt underleveled or overleveled.
Unfortunately, the quality-of-life enhancements don't extend to difficulty sliders or accessibility options. While badges like Simplify make Action Commands easier to execute, equipping it makes your special move gauge refill more slowly, so you're negatively impacted in a way for using them. On the flip side, the Unsimplify badge shrinks timing windows and hastens special meter regeneration. Adept players reap the rewards, while those who may need some assistance with Action Commands make concessions. These badges and others like Double Pain (Mario takes double damage) existed in the original game, and it's great that they're still here. But badge modifiers won't change the fact that some Action Commands will be tricky (or impossible) for some players with limited mobility. For instance, Yoshi's Ground Pound and several other moves are straight button-mashers. A setting that alters the more mechanically involved quick-time events to be single-button taps ala Super Mario RPG would have been a nice addition.
Though the story falls within familiar Mario territory--Peach is kidnapped by the X-Nauts, an evil alien-robot (something like that) organization led by Sir Grodus--the writing and characterization are sublime. Mario's role-playing games have always featured zany dialogue, memorable characters, and a lot of heart. The Thousand-Year Door is no different. All seven partners are marked by the desire to prove something to themselves and the world. Though they're all great, it's somewhat ridiculous that all four female partners--Goombella, Vivian, Madame Flurrie, and Ms. Mowz (optional)--clearly have the hots for Mario, whereas Admiral Bobbery and Koops have emotional ties that extend beyond the unavailable mustachioed hero. At least in Vivian's case, Mario is seemingly the first person to show her kindness. Yeah, there are depressing undercurrents beneath a lot of the humor.
The Thousand-Year Door has so many great lines of dialogue that touch on the full range of human emotions that it's absolutely worth your time to talk to every NPC you encounter and read the messages sent to Mario's Game Boy Advance SP communication device--there are some real gems in there. A few lines of dark humor actually made my mouth drop, and it's hard to believe that the words of a Bob-omb with a steering wheel attached to his back got to me more than any game in a long time. There's even a conversation about the need for renewable energy sources--as a reminder, this game is from 2004.
The pacing remains uneven in spots–Creepy Steeple still has some tedious backtracking and the Glitz Pit still features 20 mostly simple battles with nearly identical preambles between each–but the vast majority of the 30-plus hour adventure keeps the story moving while gradually adding new mechanics to combat as well as exploration, such as Mario's ability to turn into a paper boat to move across water and roll into a small cylinder to access small passageways. And the interludes between chapters featuring (briefly) playable characters Peach and Bowser remain fun breathers between hunts for the Crystal Stars that open the eponymous door beneath Rogueport.
The Switch version of Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door is the definitive way to play the best turn-based RPG starring Mario. More of an enhanced HD remaster than a full-fledged remake, The Thousand-Year Door has small yet meaningful quality-of-life features that ease some of the bloat from the original GameCube version. The catchy remixed soundtrack wonderfully complements the thoroughly entertaining and dynamic turn-based battle system. Throw in a stellar cast of characters and consistently playful writing, and The Thousand-Year Door has all the ingredients of an incredible turn-based RPG. Well, it always had them, but now they are blended a bit better.
Lorelei and the Laser Eyes is a psychological horror puzzle game that sent me on a winding journey through a black and white, neon-red-accented hotel, to untangle a mystery that blurred the line between fact and fiction. It is dense with puzzles, heavy on story, but both are interwoven, and that is key to the way it unravels. I was consistently thrown off the path to the truth, led astray in what I perceived as a maze, when in actuality, I was being armed with knowledge that led me through a labyrinth to the game's heart-wrenching conclusion.
With no setup or direction, the game simply begins. You take control of a suave, sunglasses-wearing, 1960s mod-style dressed woman, standing alone in the woods at night, just outside the historic-looking Hotel Letztes Jahr. Like its main character, you are thrown into this world with no knowledge of who or where you are, or why you're there. The goal of the game is to find the truth, as said verbatim in the game's manual, which is found within the world itself as opposed to being accessible by default. This obtuse direction set the tone for the game--foreshadowing that I was going to have to work to understand anything and everything on the journey before me. It pulled me right in, feeding into my natural curiosity and love for mysteries. The discovery of its hidden truths is tracked via a Truth Recovery percentage in the game's menu. It isn't long, though, until you find a letter with a vague and mysterious message signed by Renzo Nero explaining that you were invited to be at this hotel, on this date, in the year 1963.
You are left to your own devices to investigate, unlock, and unravel every aspect of the game, with your progress starting at 0% and tracked throughout the game. No piece of information is simply handed to you, but rather uncovered. The manual, for example, is locked away and requires a key to obtain it. However, the game can be completed without ever actually finding its manual at all. This is a small example of the game's nonlinearity and the trust it instilled in me to find things on my own. Recovering every piece of the story is not necessary to complete the game, but doing so deeply rewards those who take the time to investigate every nook and cranny of its cryptic world.
As it turns out, Renzo Nero is a rather eccentric artist with a taste for theatrics and has invited you to partake in an artistic project. When entering the solemn hotel, you begin to slowly uncover the story of your larger-than-life host, who has seemingly prepared everything for you in a hotel that is as much a maze as it is an intricate puzzle box. But like all good puzzles, nothing is what it seems and you're thrust into a sprawling and complex maze of mysteries. You must explore its labyrinthine halls and peel back the story of your involvement in this artist's project one piece of evidence at a time. As this incredibly cool looking woman, you can freely walk through a series of scenes viewed through fixed camera angles, which depict a black and white world made up of vector-style 3D graphics through a cinematic lens.
Each piece of information is not only necessary to piecing together the story, but acts as knowledge to solve the game's dozens upon dozens of puzzles. Whether it's news articles, books on Roman numerals, strobogrammatic numerology, or the Greek alphabet (just to name a few), all serve as tools used to venture further into the hotel. Unlike most puzzle games that establish their own language and style of puzzle, Lorelei and the Laser Eyes instead uses real-world concepts and logic, like math and brain teasers, contextualized by story information that invites you to push forward. Where a puzzle game like The Witness uses its puzzle mechanics to teach the player about its world, Lorelei and the Laser Eyes leans on the player's existing knowledge and understanding of basic problem-solving. In that regard, this game could be a barrier to entry for some players, but it also builds on the knowledge players have to expand their understanding, which greatly rewards veteran puzzle lovers like myself.
It's a lot to remember, and certainly an education in a lot of areas like Latin terms or the meaning behind Greek symbols, for example. Thankfully, the main character has a photographic memory that saves everything you pick up, and can be viewed at any point in the game. But her photographic memory will only get you so far in finding the solutions to its puzzles, and your very own pen and paper (or a notebook, in my case) feels necessary in order to find and remember the solution for all its obstacles. In my actual day-to-day life, I'm already an avid notebook user. At all times, I have one on me to jot down notes and ideas, or plan ahead--sometimes I use my notebook to work through problems in my life. This need to use pen and paper to solve the game's problems fed directly into how I manage my everyday life. It's incredibly satisfying and cool to have real-life habits overlap with playing the game in a way that is tangible and sincerely helpful in progressing through Lorelei and the Laser Eyes.
As you move through the ghostly monochrome hotel, every door, drawer, gate, passageway, diary, and just about everything else, requires a solution to be opened or unlocked. Some doors are locked from the other side, while others require a specific key found elsewhere (often after solving another puzzle), or are padlocked with a code yet to be discovered. Sometimes the solution comes by way of the environment around you, so examining posters, or looking for riddles or brain teasers nearby is necessary. Other times it requires cross-examining information you've already gathered, like a specific year mentioned in a telegram, or scanning over astronomical objects. If it sounds dense, that's because it is. But the game paces out information, and gives the players all the right tools to allow puzzles to be solved without overwhelming you. In most cases, if you can't find the solution around you, or in any of the documents you have in your photographic memory, it's safe to say you haven't discovered the clues necessary for the solution yet, but this deduction is also left for you to make.
There were a few instances where I felt I had hit a wall, having found several puzzles that I simply couldn't understand. It added several hours of experimentation to my journey, as I tried to find logic in anything, only to realize that I had forgotten about a note I grabbed at the beginning of the game that alluded to a small detail elsewhere in the hotel that I had completely overlooked. It was frustrating, but also a valuable lesson in realizing that if something didn't make sense to me, I likely didn't have what I needed yet. After I had that realization, navigating the maze became more of a meditative journey--it was a moment of self-discipline and a reminder to myself that I didn't have to solve everything the moment I had discovered it. There was peace in that realization; in stepping back, being patient, and taking my time.
The puzzles are difficult, and while many of them left me scratching my head for hours sometimes, they never felt impossible. Thankfully, the game's nonlinear nature makes it a practice in simply knowing when it's time to take a break and move on to another puzzle. That also means keeping track of every bit of information you come across, which is one of many reasons why having a notebook is vital. During my 34-hour playthrough, I had filled 31 pages of my notebook with hectic scribbles, noting down any information of importance, such as dates noted in documents or names, which could be used to either decode one answer, or used to combine with another. My notebook became a companion in my playthrough, filled with numbers and equations and cryptic symbols, often involving Roman numerals, lunar phases, or astrology, and I loved every single second of it.
Lorelei and the Laser Eyes bombards you with so much information, so many puzzles, and so many enigmatic problems, that having my notebook by my side only managed to pull me into the experience of the game further. Oh, and also, with a cup of coffee there too.
I consumed a lot of coffee while playing this game. This meant having to use the bathroom a lot. While this may seem irrelevant to the game itself, it's actually an important thing to note. This game will require patience, and oftentimes, getting up and physically walking away from it to process its many puzzles, as many of the solutions will not appear magically. Sometimes all it takes is a break, clearing your mind (or bladder), and coming back with a fresh pair of laser eyes to have that satisfying eureka moment.
This reliance on writing in a notebook and cross-examining my own notes was alleviated by the fact that the game, if you're playing on Switch, can be played with one Joy-Con. The control scheme is incredibly simple, as everything can be interacted with using a single button press, making holding a pencil in the other hand (or a cup of coffee), an engaging way to play the game. As a result, it makes playing on the Switch my preferred way to experience it.
As the game and story progress, you unlock more halls and areas of the hotel, and with it, a discovery that what you've been perceiving as reality is being bent and molded to drag you deeper into its chill-inducing horror. These moments and the revelations that come from them are better experienced than explained, so I won't go into detail. But there are several scenarios in the latter half of the game that subverted my expectations so effectively that they had me pulling at my hair in shock.
The game's horror is also emphasized by using the medium of games itself exceptionally well. Much of Lorelei and the Laser Eyes' biggest themes center around the relationship between art and technology, and its direct correlation with the artistic medium of games. Through this lens, Simogo uses game development as a narrative throughline that guides you through different eras of games, like the low-poly horror of the first PlayStation or the lo-fi charm of 1-bit point-and-click adventure games. There's a meta narrative under the hood of Lorelei and the Laser Eyes that will deeply reward those intimate with gaming as a medium, as well as Simogo's previous works. Crucially, these aren't necessary to understand and enjoy the game as whole, they just enrich it further.
Similar to The Ring's use of VHS tapes, PlayStation 1-style graphics are used at times to evoke the rudimentary, degraded presentation of yesteryear to establish an unnerving tone--a jarring contrast to the game's usual clean and modern graphics. Witnessing this whiplash of bygone style of games and seeing it recycled in a rather menacing way was awesome. It felt as though it was cleverly using my existing knowledge of PS1-era games to its advantage. Not just in a way that captures nostalgia, but to elevate the game's more horror-like tones. Similarly, even the role of playtesting games becomes its own topic, extending its meta themes, and even acting as satire in certain parts.
Lorelei and the Laser Eyes is a massive achievement in using the games as a medium and an art form to tell a story that can only be experienced in a video game. Over the course of my time with it, I was surprised and astounded at Simogo's ability to subvert my expectations to convey a story that touches on art and technology, and the magical illusion of storytelling, all while using the foundation of puzzle design to not just arm me with knowledge, but use it to find the truth. It can often feel like a harrowing maze built on riddles and deception, but through perseverance, you can find your way to the center of this labyrinth and a truth worth knowing.
Crow Country is coated in a murky green veneer that gives the impression you're playing it on a grainy CRT TV in one of your friend's bedrooms back in 1996. The polygonal figure of its protagonist, Special Agent Mara Forest, with her visible joints and single block of purple hair, harks back to any number of PlayStation-era character designs. Similarly, Crow Country's environments look wonderfully pre-rendered, lavished in extra detail that sits in stark contrast to its simple, blocky characters. These aren't the static backgrounds of yesteryear, however, but fully interactive playgrounds that add a modern tinge to Crow Country's distinctly retro sensibilities.
This affectionate nostalgia is in service of a game that pays loving homage to landmark titles of the survival horror genre while also boldly standing on its own two feet. Resident Evil is Crow Country's most obvious influence, but traces of Silent Hill and Alone in the Dark also stalk the darkest corners of its '90s-inspired horror. It can be a tad too authentic at times, featuring unwieldy combat that's tempting to ignore completely, but this is still a true advert for the joys of retro-modern survival horror when executed well.
Set in 1990, your first taste of the titular Crow Country occurs when Mara pulls into its parking lot in a white facsimile of a Volkswagen Polo. Crow Country is a decrepit, abandoned theme park that's both dense and labyrinthine despite its small scale--as if designed by the same architect who worked on The Spencer Mansion and Racoon City Police Station. Mara is here following up on a missing person's report for the park's owner, Edward Crow, but it doesn't take long before she's unraveling the park's deepest secrets and most intriguing mysteries.
The story unravels out of chronological order as you discover notes left behind by employees, read old newspaper clippings, and interact with a small cast of relatable NPCs. It's expertly paced, with sharp writing that's self-aware and includes plenty of nods to both gaming and horror tropes without feeling corny. Discovering what happened in the two years since the park closed down propels the story forward, and it sticks the landing with a memorable ending. Crucially, Crow Country also doesn't follow a familiar pattern despite being a pastiche of genre classics in almost every other facet of its design. There's no zombie outbreak or missing wife, and the theme park setting is a refreshingly unfamiliar location, capturing the same kind of uncertainty that the first Resident Evil achieved in 1996.
There are monsters in the form of aberrant Cronenberg-esque designs that range from bipedal shamblers to amorphous blobs. Their origins are tragic, tracing back to human hubris and greed, but you can also play the entire game without them. Crow Country offers two modes of play: Survival and exploration. The latter removes any trace of the park's enemies so you can focus on exploration and puzzle solving, which gives you a good idea of where the game's priorities lie.
During survival mode, the park gradually fills with grotesque creatures as you delve further into the game's story. In true survival horror fashion, you can avoid most enemy encounters by simply running past them, conserving your limited supply of ammo in the process. This has the knock-on effect of populating the park with extra creatures, but the presence of more enemies never feels problematic, and I only bothered engaging in combat if they were directly impeding a puzzle.
This is partly because the survival aspect of Crow Country is relatively easy. Unless you're fighting absolutely every enemy or aren't thoroughly exploring, ammo is plentiful enough, and the same is true of med kits and antidotes. There also aren't a lot of genuine threats to your life. The small, skittish Pinochio-esque creatures are surprising at first because they're fast, and the rattle of bones that accompanies the strangely elongated skeletons might tempt you to nope the hell out, but both are rare and simple enough to breeze past that they never pose much danger. You won't find a pack of zombie dogs bursting through a window or encounter deadly frog-like creatures in tight corridors, so the sense of challenge is severely lacking. Inventory management--normally a staple of the genre--is also notable for its absence. Instead of having to carefully pick which items and weapons to take with you, you can go into the final boss fight with all four firearms fully stocked, further diminishing any sense of reward when it comes to the game's combat.
Another reason you might avoid combat entirely is that it isn't particularly engaging. Crow Country is played from an intimate isometric viewpoint with free camera movement, immediately making it more palatable than the games it's inspired by. That said, aiming and shooting with an isometric camera feels deliberately awkward and clunky, especially because you're aiming both horizontally and vertically. You're locked in place when doing so, which at least makes you vulnerable and adds an element of tension as you fiddle with your laser pointer, but taking down enemies is still straightforward even when the controls are fighting against you. There's a natural progression of weapon unlocks as you start with Mara's service pistol before acquiring a shotgun, magnum, and flamethrower. Apart from some weapons dealing more damage than others, however, there isn't a palpable difference in feel between each one, so their impact is largely dulled.
Despite these shortcomings, Crow Country still manages to establish a creepy atmosphere as you navigate the park's various nooks and crannies. It might be an ominous low hum or the comforting--yet somehow still offputting--music playing in every save room, but the game's score does an excellent job of building tension with music reminiscent of the era. The dilapidated theme park setting is also a significant part of the game's overall charm, whether you're exploring the aquatic zone with its imported sand and fake starfish, rushing past the fairy forest's abundance of giant mushrooms, or skulking through the haunted town to reach a spooky mansion and underground crypt. The janky animatronics and pervasive crow-theming would be eerie even before introducing monsters, broken glass, and ominous blood spatter to the equation.
Each zone is distinct and memorable enough that navigating the park is a breeze. It also helps that the entire map's layout is incredibly intuitive. After walking up a miniature version of Disneyland's Main Street, you come to an open square that acts as the park's centerpiece, with doorways splitting off into all three zones. The map is open-ended, encouraging you to slowly expand your access to different areas by venturing back and forth to find all sorts of clues and items. Interconnected shortcuts through staff rooms and back offices remove the tedium of backtracking, and the park gradually begins to fold back in on itself, revealing a hidden depth that belies its relatively small scale. It's inherently satisfying to unearth a new doorway leading to a previous area where you now have the items needed to solve a puzzle and make even more progress, and Crow Country is teeming with rewarding moments like this.
The puzzles themselves are fun to solve, too, expertly toeing the line between befuddling and condescendingly easy. Employee notes and company memos sometimes provide hints, but most solutions derive from logic and common sense--even if the former is a distinct flavor of survival horror logic. The map's smaller scale works in its favor here as well, with many of the puzzles being quite self-contained. The items you need to solve a particular conundrum are often nearby, and even if you have to venture further afield, it never takes too long to get back. The puzzle designs are also delightfully varied, tasking you with playing specific notes on a piano to open hidden compartments, uncover a key by melting an animatronic's head with acid, and solve a riddle using the names on various gravestones while a skeletal arm waves a shotgun in your face.
Crow Country pays homage to a golden era of survivor horror without relying on simple mimicry. It's simultaneously familiar and yet unfamiliar, touching on tropes and genre trappings while utilizing modern techniques to enhance the experience and make it more approachable for newcomers. It's not a particularly challenging game, and combat is dull and unwieldy, but this aspect of the game is easy enough to ignore, especially when there's an enticing theme park full of secrets and rewarding puzzles to delve into. The story is also surprisingly rich, telling a captivating tale with smart writing and a memorable ending. Crow Country is clearly lovingly crafted, resulting in a nostalgic throwback that manages to avoid feeling derivative. It does justice to the games that inspired it, but it's also a fantastic game in its own right.
It's usually pretty easy to predict how a 2D Metroidvania is going to play out. At some point, you'll probably unlock a double or even triple jump to reach previously inaccessible areas, obtain an air dash that helps you traverse large gaps and pass through specific blockades, and acquire a weapon upgrade that functions as both a killing tool and a way to progress past certain obstacles. Animal Well contains most of these things, but never in ways that are expected. Created by solo developer Billy Basso and published by Bigmode, Animal Well is a surrealist puzzle platformer that's delightfully surprising. Even if its pixelated art style and genre trappings make it seem familiar on the surface, it is a game that often eschews conventional wisdom and stands out because of it.
You play as a nondescript blob who emerges from a blossoming flower into a strange vibrant world filled with creatures big and small. You can move and jump, but that's about the extent of your physical prowess. Upon awakening, you're free to explore in any direction you choose. Animal Well doesn't hold your hand and is exceedingly non-linear, letting you unlock items and abilities in whichever order you find them. There is an end goal that's revealed once you discover a map and get a lay of the land, as each corner of the map contains a flame you need to fetch in order to light the four beacons at its center. Why, you might ask? There isn't an explicit explanation for anything you do, but that sense of mystery is part of what drives the adventure forward.
The other part is the world of Animal Well itself. At first glance, its pixelated art style looks simple, yet each screen holds a deceptive layer of detail beyond its neon-drenched exterior. Whether it's the cascading background elements, reflections on the water's surface, the sway of bushes and vines as you move past them, or the realistic smoke that billows into the air after igniting a firecracker, there's more to the visuals that it may seem on first blush. There are also physics, lighting, and particle systems at play that modernize the game's Commodore 64-inspired visuals, creating a world that feels very much alive, and that's without mentioning the abundance of wildlife.
From giant technicolor swans to iguanas with elongated tongues capable of snatching up other animals, Animal Well's creature designs possess an enticing, dreamlike quality. Music is used sparingly, with the sounds of nature--of chirping birds and the pitter-patter of falling water--dominating the soundscape. When music does enter the fray, it's usually done to ratchet up the tension, introducing ominous synth tones that wouldn't feel out of place in an '80s thriller.
Unlike many other Metroidvanias, Animal Well doesn't feature combat; the focus is purely on puzzle-solving and platforming. That doesn't mean there aren't any threats to your life, however. The tense music is there to complement a plethora of anxiety-inducing moments as you encounter aggressive animals and other nasties. Being chased by the ghostly apparition of a demonic cat is thrilling, just as being forced to cower underground as the long neck of an ostrich undulates towards you--its beak chomping at the bit--is incredibly suspenseful. Consumable firecrackers can scare away some creatures, while others require you to simply run away. Yet it's the gradual arsenal of tools at your disposal that makes a real difference.
Like any good Metroidvania, Animal Well features various items that act as keys to progression while also introducing new gameplay mechanics. As I mentioned earlier, the options here are pleasantly surprising due to how they break from the norm. Instead of unlocking a traditional double jump, for example, you acquire a magic wand that creates bubbles, allowing you to hop on top of a floating sphere to reach higher platforms. This might not sound groundbreaking, but when you factor in the way certain enemies and objects in the environment can interact with these bubbles, their impact is much more varied than a simple double jump could ever be.
The frisbee, meanwhile, can be used like a makeshift dash; provided there are two surfaces for it to bounce between. You can also launch it to flip faraway levers or distract certain animals, like dogs, giving you the opportunity to slip past unharmed. This emphasis on avoiding combat makes enemy encounters feel like puzzles to be solved, which seamlessly meshes with the rest of the game's engaging puzzle design.
I was never stumped for long by any of Animal Well's conundrums, yet the solutions were nearly always creative enough that I constantly felt satisfied whenever I solved one. Most of the puzzles revolve around opening the path forward by activating a number of switches. This might be done by dropping a slinky and moving blocks to guide it down the right path or manipulating animals to walk on switches you can't reach yourself. Sometimes, you might use a yo-yo to flip a switch underneath you, ricochet the frisbee off two different levers to cause platforms to activate and de-activate--creating a timing-based platforming section--or use a crank to rotate platforms and redirect the spray from a water fountain into a bowl. I'm deliberately describing some of the earlier puzzles because discovering Animal Well's various conundrums yourself is a significant part of the experience. But these examples are a decent glimpse at the sheer variety on show.
There are also secrets to be found in the nooks and crannies of Animal Well's densely packed map. These take the shape of various eggs that are then stored in a hub area containing a few locked doors. After finding a specific number of eggs, some of these doors begin to open, leading to new areas and new items. These items aren't necessary to progress towards the game's ending but instead seem to revolve around unlocking more hidden secrets. Once the final credits roll, you're free to continue playing in search of these mysteries, yet it doesn't seem like something one person will be able to figure out on their own. Maybe I'm wrong, but it has a similar feeling to Fez, whereby the internet is going to have to work together to uncover everything. That's an enticing prospect.
For the most part, Animal Well's platforming isn't particularly challenging, but it feels precise to the point where you can stop on a dime in mid-air if you need to. The map is also small and interconnected enough that backtracking rarely feels laborious, although I'd be lying if I said I wouldn't have liked a way to move between areas instantly in those moments when I wasn't entirely sure where to go next. There are a couple of sections where dying multiple times is a distinct possibility, and it's here where backtracking can encroach on frustration due to the way respawning works. The last save point you used is where you'll reappear after dying, which can sometimes be a fair distance away. Normally, this is a non-issue, but when you encounter a section--like one involving moving platforms that can crush you in an instant--the long trek back quickly becomes demoralizing.
It's impressive that this is the lone blemish on an otherwise excellent addition to the pantheon of great Metroidvanias. This is a game that's chock full of pleasant surprises, from the way its items forgo tradition in interesting ways to the visual design and sense of atmosphere generated by its bizarre, neon-soaked world. Animal Well might look antiquated and familiar at first glance, but this well is cavernous and unpredictable.
Between the advent of cozy games, farm sims, rhythm games, narrative adventures, and more, we're in something of a golden age of non-violent games. If you want to take a break from shooting and punching and instead just relax with some chill vibes, you have myriad options available to you. Endless Ocean: Luminous is an aquatic take, letting you freely explore the ocean with no danger or violence to speak of whatsoever. It sometimes straddles the line between game and edutainment in ways that could be engaging, but achingly slow progression and a lack of realism leave it feeling washed up.
Scientists say only 5% of the ocean has been explored. The name Endless Ocean, and the unexplored nature of the ocean itself, suggests an incredible degree of possibility and adventure. In practice, though, there actually isn't all that much to do in Endless Ocean: Luminous. You can take part in a Solo Dive, in which you explore a seemingly randomized map; a Shared Dive, which is just a Solo Dive with friends exploring the same map together online using Nintendo's Switch Online service (complete with its usual shortcomings); and Story Mode, which gives you short missions consisting of objectives accompanied by a little dialogue.
With this dearth of options, its approach to progression gating further compounds the lack of variety. After the first handful of story missions, the others are locked behind scanning ocean creatures in Shared or Solo dives. To scan you just hold the L button in the direction of sea life until the meter fills, which then gives a detailed look at the creatures in your scan. But the progress gates are set so absurdly high that the novelty wears off quickly. One of the earliest gates is set at 500 scans, which felt high but reasonable. The next was at 1,000, so I had to get another 500. That rubbed me the wrong way. By the time I reached the next gate, set at 2,000--meaning I needed another 1,000 scans--the chill vibes were gone. I was just annoyed. It's hard to overstate how frustrating it is to spend almost an hour roaming around a randomized map scanning fish, only to exit the map and find I've only gained another 200 pips toward my next story goal. Plus, judging by the creature log, there are just under 600 species of sea life total in the game. Why would you need to scan 2,000 times to see a mid-game story mission?
Not that there's much story to tell. You're a new diver accompanied by an AI companion, exploring phenomena of glowing fish, and sometimes you're accompanied by a brash (but actually cowardly) fellow diver named Daniel. The story missions are short and largely uneventful. Sometimes they end so quickly that I was genuinely surprised. Other times, they feel like a glorified tutorial, which makes it that much stranger to gate it behind so much free-roaming playtime. At least one of them is just a cutscene with no actual diving gameplay whatsoever. Occasionally, the story mode will deliver something unexpected and fun, like a massive or fantastical species of fish, but those moments are few and far between. There is a meta-story involving an ancient relic with 99 slots, which you fill in by discovering certain artifacts scattered randomly throughout dives or by fulfilling achievement objectives, but it feels more like a busywork checklist than a real story-driver.
And because the scanning requirements are so excessive, small inconveniences feel more impactful than they should. It's easy to pick up a fish you've already scanned while trying to register a new one. Every time you scan any fish, it zooms in on them for a moment, forcing you to hit B to back out of the detailed view. If you scan multiple species at once, they're grouped in a listing together, which is meant to be a convenience feature--but new species aren't prioritized in the list, so you need to scroll down to find any with a "???" designation to mark them as discovered. If you don't, the unidentified fish remains unidentified. If you scan a large school of the same fish, they'll all be listed separately. In Solo Dives, the map is slowly charted in segments as you explore, but keeping an eye on the map to make sure I was filling in the little squares meant I could fail to notice a fish swimming by, or I could miss a depth change that may reward me for diving deeper.
Your dives get you experience points to level up, which increases your dive capacity, which you can use to tag sea creatures to swim alongside you. At first, these only include the smallest of sea creatures, but as you build capacity, you can swim with larger ones that are used to solve riddles. A stone tablet might challenge you to come back with a particular type of turtle or a fish that "sails as it swims." Even then, though, the solutions are too rigid. When I returned to the tablet with a "Sailfish," nothing happened, presumably because it was not the specific solution the riddle had in mind.
In addition to story progress and dive capacity, leveling up also opens new but severely limited tiers of customization options. Those include palette swaps for your diver or individual SCUBA suit parts, different stickers to apply to your profile, and emotes. There isn't even a different helmet or mouthpiece, just the default in different colors.
It feels as if the goal was to create a virtual, interactive aquatic museum, and the variety of sea life does support this nicely. It actually is exciting the first time you see a new species of sea turtle or an extinct megalodon shark, even if you know that it can't hurt you. But the mechanical underpinnings get in the way of its potential as a museum too. For example, every species of fish has a blurb with some interesting marine facts, complete with a reading of it from your AI companion. This could be a cool and educational feature, but when you're pressed to perform thousands of scans, it's hard to bother listening to every blurb. There also isn't an indicator for when you've already heard a blurb, and since you'll see species repeated a lot, it's nearly impossible to remember which ones you have or haven't heard--even if you can tell dozens of roughly similar-looking fish apart, which I can't.
In part due to its non-violent nature, Endless Ocean does not present the depths very realistically, even to my layman's eyes. Your oxygen is unlimited, and you don't need to worry about temperature or depth. You'll never freeze or get decompression sickness or drown. More aggressive species will never attack you. Species of fish seem to be scattered more or less randomly around the map, which leads to oddities like finding large-scale creatures in shallow waters, or discovering deep-sea dwellers in middle-depths instead of the deepest, almost pitch-black parts of the ocean where they actually reside. And while this is likely a limitation of the Switch hardware, the fish, coral, and ocean floor themselves aren't rendered photorealistically enough to instill a sense of awe and majesty.
It seems Endless Ocean wants you to spend most of your time diving with friends to pass the time. The Shared Dives option is the first one on the menu, after all, and it is easier to fulfill the simple procedural objectives when you're paired with other divers. But like most Switch games, you join friendly games using a digital code, and there isn't built-in voice chat, so you can't really treat it like an underwater virtual lobby. Even if you could, though, scanning fish with your friends would not sustain the group fun for anyone but the most devoted of sea-life enthusiasts.
Endless Ocean: Luminous could have been a realistic SCUBA sim with all the treacherous hazards that real underwater divers need to consider, a relaxing chill-vibes game that's mostly about finding fish with your friends, or a story-driven game centered around discovering awesome and even extinct underwater beasts. It has pieces of all of those, but it doesn't commit to any of them. Instead, it takes the enormity and glory of earth's largest and most mysterious region and turns exploring it into a dull, repetitive chore.
Tennis, at its core, is a game about legacy. Names like Billie Jean King, Pete Sampras, and the Williams sisters are immortalized through legendary matches, on-court triumphs, and tournament dominance that have shaped the history of the sport. It seems appropriate, then, that the Top Spin series has lived on in similar reverence since Top Spin 4, which was released over a decade ago to critical acclaim. Now, with developer Hanger 13 at the helm, Top Spin makes its long-awaited return. It serves up an ace in the all-important gameplay aspects, but double faults on content and troubling microstransaction focus mean it’s still far from a grand slam.
Gameplay takes center court in the newest entry and it's excellent. Moving around the court feels great thanks to a strong sense of momentum and weight. That's especially true on different surfaces, as the firm footing of a hard court gives way to sliding around on clay. It looks authentic, and factoring in the different starts and stops on the numerous types of surfaces is an important consideration when playing a match.
Different shots are mapped to various buttons and do an excellent job conveying just how sophisticated volleys are. Whether you are hitting a hard straight shot, curving slices, or smashing a ball right up the line with hard-to-handle top spin, the various options are meaningfully different. A simple timing system lets you tap for controlled returns, or hold to generate power, with both options depending on releasing at the right moment to determine accuracy. It’s straightforward, and rewarding to execute . There's a place and application for each, like intentionally hitting a slow rolling shot to give yourself an opportunity to reposition yourself on the court, or sending a lob high over the head of an opponent who has creeped too close to the net.
That strategic element of tennis is Top Spin's biggest triumph. Trading power-shots as you send your opponent all over the court expending energy is exhilarating thanks to the sense of speed and impact. Breaking yourself out of the same situation by returning a ball in an awkward spot with unwiedly spin, creating a fault from the other player, is a diabolical joy. There's a "chess, but with rackets" quality to the game of tennis that translates well to Top Spin 2K25, and dominating on the court is as dependent on decision-making as it is on pure stick skills.
The most substantial mode is MyCareer. Here you create your own tennis pro and build them up from newcomer to champion. Your time is divided by month, and each is broken into segments for Training, Special Events, and Tournaments. Training is a mostly good setup, as you are thrust into minigames that challenge you to execute particular shots, and does a decent job refining basic skills. Special Events are one-off matches, often with a specific goal in mind, like hitting 10 target areas during the game. These can be a solid choice for XP farming, and can also unlock sponsor packages, which in turn increase the selection of the purely cosmetic items in the Pro Shop that are used to dress up your character.
The main feature is the tournaments, where you take on other top players to battle for victory and a chance to climb the tennis ranks. There are different levels of tournaments, and gaining access to more prestigious events involves increasing your status, making your way from Unknown up to a Legend. Improving your status requires accomplishing a checklist of goals, and can contain things like winning a certain number of tournaments, successfully completing training, or working your way up the tennis ranks. The system is well-tuned and does a good job of ensuring that, by the time you are ready to take on higher-level tournaments, they are challenging but not insurmountable.
Building XP and leveling up your character gives you points to spend for increasing your player's attributes, including speed, stamina, and reaction speed. Your maximum level is capped at 30, so you won't be able to max out every category, which is a limitation that encourages building with specific goals in mind. Boost your player's serve, forehand, and power, for example, and you'll be capable of dominating the court with overwhelming smashes, while a speed/volley combo can wreak havoc with angles and positioning. But no one player can dominate in all facets of the game.
As you progress and win Special Events you will earn Fittings for your racket like strings or a new frame. These confer attribute bonuses on your player and come in three quality tiers, with higher tiers offering greater boosts. Hirable coaches have a similar effect, conferring boosts after completing a few on-court objectives. Together, these systems reinforce one of gaming's great unwritten rules: sports games are secretly RPGs. And in the case of Top Spin, it's a pretty good one.
One of the key considerations comes in the form of a fatigue system that adds an interesting layer of long-term planning. Every match takes away from your player's fatigue. When it drops below a certain level, they gain the potential for a minor injury, which reduces certain attributes until it heals. If you keep playing without resting, it can lead to a major injury, sidelining you for multiple months. There's an engaging risk/reward to deciding when you can push through another event, and when you need to take a break to recuperate. After all, burning th candle at both ends for too long could mean you're forced to miss a career-defining tournament down the line.
There's no prefabricated story mode, and I think that is for the best in this case as not all sports games need to be scripted to provide engaging drama. Top Spin does a great job creating an environment for on-court stories told through the game of tennis to shine. At one point, my player was run down after back-to-back tournaments and had just picked up a minor injury. I was all set to rest him for a month or two to recover, but then I realized Wimbledon was the next event. It was an opportunity I couldn't pass up, leading to the most challenging five rounds of matches I had played. Taking on the best players in tennis with my power game diminished by the injury meant I had to rely on subterfuge, finesse, and good old-fashioned moxie to make it to the end. Fighting through the challenges to grasp victory in a hard-fought final far exceeded any contrived storyline.
The problem with Top Spin 2K25 is there is little to do in MyCareer other than continuing to rotate through the three monthly activities, and the threadbare presentation wears thin quickly. It doesn't take very long to develop your player far enough that you can easily win any match, at which point it really feels like you are just going through the motions over and over again, checking off objectives to increase your status and sitting at the top rank. Every tournament--from the small cup contests to the most prestigious Major--has an identical victory cutscene, with the same person giving you the exact same trophy. There's no announcing crew, and ball-tracking graphics packages like Shot Spot are used exceedingly sparingly, which is a shame. There are eventually some interesting surprise matches we won't spoil, but those are limited, and don't appear until very deep into the game.
The options outside of MyCareer are extremely barebones. It's somewhat understandable for what effectively amounts to a fresh launch for the Top Spin series, but it stands out when other sports games, including NBA 2K, have so many more modes. Outside of MyCareer, local play is limited to list single and doubles exhibition games, and the Top Spin Academy tutorials. The latter is narrated by tennis legend John McEnroe, and while it's a good overview of how to play, it doesn't offer much value after an initial run through,
The online assortment isn't much better. The exhibition mode is restricted to one-on-one matchmade games. No option to play against friends or team-up with them for doubles play is a huge miss. The 2K Tour lets you play ranked games to climb a seasonal leaderboard, but the small roster of 11 men and 14 women is missing many notable athletes, including the #1 player from the men's rankings, Novak Djokovik. There also aren't any apparent rewards for placing well in the tour, leaving no clear incentive to play other than bragging rights.
World Tour is the online competitive arena for created players. It is fun to go online and see how someone you built compares to another player's athlete, and the cat-and-mouse game on the court versus a human offers unique opportunities to use feints and other misdirections that AI-controlled players tend not to respond to. Unfortunately, this is where Top Spin's biggest sin comes most into focus as well: microtransations. The Centre Court Pass is the de facto battle pass. Thirteen of the 50 tiers are free, but the rest require you to buy the paid premium pass. That would be okay if the items were purely cosmetic, but it also contains boosters for XP, which leads to increased levels and higher attributes, as well as offering VC, the in-game currency. VC can be earned through normal gameplay, but accumulates at a slow rate. That's a problem when you are required to spend almost 3,000 VC to respec your character if you decide you want to redistribute their attribute points. You could spend hours grinding matches to make that much VC, or you could drop about $20 to get just enough points to pay for it. It's simply egregious.
Top Spin 2K25 gets the most important piece right: It plays great. It wonderfully combines smooth and responsive gameplay with the engaging tactical aspects of tennis to create something that is a joy on the court. It's too bad the presentation is barebones and the suite of gameplay modes is limited. Ultimately though, it's the onerous microtransactions-- once again front and center in a 2K sports game--that truly hold it back and keep Top Spin 2K25 from approaching the series' former glory.
These frequent philosophical exchanges could have easily come off as overwrought or self-indulgent, but all these musings are in service of the characters and their development over the course of the story. For example, Indika tells Ilya she joined the convent of her own volition, but because her decision was fueled by emotions and experiences that were out of her control, can she really say she became a nun through her own free will? Ilya challenges this notion, and declares that free will is how we rise above our biological dispositions. Reflective conversations like these are key to Indika's character as she grapples with her faith and attempts to make sense of her life.
It helps that Indika is portrayed by the fantastic Isabella Inchbald, and Louis Boyer embodies Ilya with equal confidence. There's a raw authenticity and conviction to their performances that bring both characters to life. You can hear the fear and doubt in Indika's voice and the desperation and hope in Ilya's. Meanwhile, Silas Carson's portrayal of the devil is humorous, sadistic, and cordial in his demeanor as he deftly narrates the action. While the writing and acting are great, they are occasionally undermined by awkward animations. Sometimes the action will look a bit too robotic, or dialogue won't quite sync up with a character's mouth. These are minor issues overall, but sometimes it was just enough to take me out of a scene.
Nevertheless, Indika is one of the most visually arresting games I've ever played. Developer Odd Meter uses framing, color, and lighting to achieve a look and feel that is rarely seen in games. Wide-angle shots often distort Indika's facial features and warp the background to give the experience a voyeuristic feel. The framing, meanwhile, consistently impresses as it accentuates the action and world. In one section, after being chased by a wolf the size of a truck, the beast takes a tumble and wedges itself in a water wheel. What follows is a subdued conversation between Indika, Ilya, and the devil in her head about whether or not a beast can be sinful, as the camera tracks the dead wolf being dragged underwater by the water wheel. It's a macabre scene given the context alone, but the stylistic choices allow the tone to meet the moment more effectively than a standard shot/reverse shot conversation would.
These choices aren't just for show, either. They are bold and sometimes jarring creative decisions that reflect Indika's inner turmoil as she travels across Russia. There are sections where the world--at least from Indika's perspective--is split in two. When this happens, an oppressive and discordant synth kicks in as hellish red light soaks the scene. Through prayer, Indika can reforge the world around her and suppress the chaos. To progress, you--and by extension, Indika--must rip apart and merge her world by alternating between Indika's cacophonous hell and her quiet reality. Although rare, these moments give weight and meaning to Indika's gameplay as they leverage Indika's themes of faith and doubt.
The same can't always be said for the game's puzzles, though. Most are simple and mundane: Move some boxes around, manipulate a crane, and strategically align lifts and elevators. Puzzles like these make sense in the early hours, as the game familiarizes you with Indika and her menial life. But as her world expands, these bland puzzles start to feel tonally and narratively incongruous as Indika struggles with her faith, especially when some puzzles literally let you tear the world apart, while others have you shove a box around.
With these criticisms in mind, it may seem like this story would be better told as a film or book. What's fascinating, though, is that Indika clearly understands the medium it inhabits. It brazenly leverages video game tropes to elevate its themes. You'll earn points for acts of faith, such as performing the sign of the cross at crucial moments, lighting altars, and collecting religious texts. You can then use these points to unlock skills that increase the amount of points Indika can earn. The thing is, these points do nothing. The loading screens even tell you they are useless. They have no discernible value and are simply a shallow way to measure Indika's faith.
Yet, I didn't want to miss any of it. I lit every altar, collected every text, and mashed the sign-of-the-cross button (yes, there's a button) at every opportunity. It's almost silly to gamify this stuff, but putting Indika through the motions as she builds up an arbitrary "faith" score while she's actively questioning her faith is brilliant. I grew up religious. I went to church every Sunday and attended Catholic school. There was a distinct period in my life when I was questioning my beliefs, yet I still held on to some of those ingrained rituals. There was a quiet guilt that I couldn't expunge: a feeling that could only be alleviated by going through the motions. In a way, it feels like Indika is using the language of video games and my understanding of them to reinforce her feelings of faith and doubt. Indika is about the internal struggle of a nun who isn't entirely sure what she believes anymore, but seeing her cling to tradition--through my actions--is powerful.
Although Indika does an excellent job exploring its themes of faith and doubt, there’s one subject the game doesn’t handle with the care it requires. In one particular scene near the end of the game, it touches on some uncomfortable territory that--depending on your interpretation of the story and its themes--might feel unnecessary. Up until that point, the evil that exists in the world feels intangible and theoretical. Indika and Ilya talk of hell and demons, but it always feels distant, almost as if God is protecting Indika on her journey. That is, until the final moments of the game, which allude to a sexual assault. The reasoning behind this scene is to test Indika's faith, but as it stands, the scene in question feels like a means to an end rather than something Odd Meter wanted to properly explore.
Given the Catholic Church’s long and pockmarked history of sexual abuse, it makes sense that it plays such a critical role in Indika, but it's not examined with the care that is necessary. The scene and what follows are clearly intended to elicit a lot of different emotions and speculation, but when those knee-jerk reactions stem from something so traumatic, it feels unearned. It's almost as if the game wants you to move on as quickly as it does, which stands out as unusual in a game that is otherwise very thorough in its interrogation of sensitive subject matter. To be clear, Odd Meter doesn’t botch this scene entirely. Atrocity is often the most difficult test of faith, and they had the good sense not to show the assault itself. However, once the scene ends, it feels like Indika is barrelling towards its conclusion, while I was still trying to make sense of what just happened.
I'm often frustrated when developers lean on religious iconography but fail to explore faith in a meaningful way. Some of the greatest works of art exist because of religion, either as an exploration of it, a testament to it, or a denouncement of it. Human history is inextricably tied to religious faith. Yet, outside of a few exceptions, games tend to avoid commenting on religion without obfuscating it behind fake dogmas and fantastical gods. Indika's direct examination of Christianity allows it to better explore the gray areas of religion and faith that are often lost when the recognizable specifics are swapped with allegorical fiction. And while the execution occasionally falters, its willingness to grapple with these difficult themes, and the conclusions it draws, make Indika a fascinating journey.
It's always a bit weird to go back to a game you finished for story-centric DLC, especially when the base game had a pretty definitive ending. However, those that have just a little bit more left in the tank can take the opportunity to give a game you really loved one more high note to end on. I often think of the Mass Effect 3 Citadel DLC as the best example--an oddly placed, yet near-perfect send-off. Final Fantasy XVI: The Rising Tide evokes similar feelings in that I was just happy to have an excuse to revisit that world and spend a bit more time with characters I cherished. While it does largely play out like more Final Fantasy XVI content, The Rising Tide fills in a few blanks left behind and lets you wield two new Eikons in a questline that reaches similar heights of the original game.
The Rising Tide questline is slotted into FFXVI right before the main game's point of no return, making it feel like an impromptu diversion at a critical point in the story. That said, it is necessary, as many of the events leading up to the DLC provide the context around its story. As Clive, you and the crew are invited to visit a region called Mysidia--a quiet area tucked away in the north and cloaked under the veil of powerful magic to both conceal itself from the rest of the world and maintain a facade of bright blue skies. It's a new area for the game that has its own interesting, isolated society and lets you explore a relatively small but vibrant region, and its stunning views remind you of how FFXVI uses its technical strengths to paint an expansive and enticing world.
Much of FFXVI was visually dour given its grim nature, so Mysidia's tropical tinge is a refreshing contrast. But this isn't a vacation for Clive--The Rising Tide revolves around the history of Leviathan as an Eikon that, like every other Eikon, was wielded in bad faith. Through the main scenario quests and sidequests, you learn about the people of Mysidia, their way of life, and their particular relationship with Leviathan. The people are self-sustaining and treat magic quite differently from the rest of Valisthea, and their leader, Shula, embodies their ethos as she accompanies you throughout the DLC. She's not exactly a standout character in the grand scheme of things, but she is a solid anchor for The Rising Tide and provides a good enough excuse for dragging Clive off the beaten path. It's a twist to the typical FFXVI plot beat and comes around to be a rather sweet story about breaking generational curses in a way that lends itself more to FFXVI's softer side.
That's not to say The Rising Tide doesn't go hard, because like the base game, its blend of intense boss fights woven into impressive cinematic cuts remains the foundation here. Along with the new region are an additional dungeon and another larger-than-life Eikon battle. While the dungeon itself is quite short, the boss fight that awaits at the end of it features some clever and inventive mechanics that even impressed the Final Fantasy XIV Savage raider in me. FFXVI's base game shares a lot of similarities with the MMORPG in terms of battle mechanics, and this remains true here, but a few twists caught me off guard and left me grinning when I was able to overcome them. And even if I could see it coming from a mile away, the build-up to another climactic Eikon battle and the arduous fight itself brought back that specific feeling of hype FFXVI was so damn good at evoking. The telegraphing of certain mechanics in the EIkon battle aren't always great, so there is some trial-and-error as you bang your head against the wall to get through it. Still, figuring out how to resolve the mechanics along with pulling off nasty, weighty attacks as Ifrit was as gratifying as ever, matching the best of what the original game had to offer.
On top of that, you also get to wield Ultima as an Eikon power, which allows Clive to hover with wings that can also violently swipe at mobs of enemies. Many of the cooldown abilities with Ultima are heavy and dramatic displays of power that aren't exactly conducive to swiftly weaving into an attack rotation--if you just want to disrespectfully pummel enemies, Ultima is the Eikon for you. Ultima is unlocked by starting up the new content called Kairos Gates, which is part of the DLC's package. It's a run-based combat challenge where you gradually build Clive with boons and enhancements to help make it through a genuinely tough gauntlet of enemy hordes and remixed bosses. The menus and sound effects between rounds are encased in an old-school Final Fantasy presentation which is a cute touch, but these fights are anything but cute. If you've been wanting FFXVI to up the difficulty, it's a decent, albeit straightforward, way to get more out of its combat.
However, the DLC does use sidequests effectively in a few key ways. For one, they tend to be more combat-focused so they're opportunities to sharpen those new Eikon-wielding skills. But after the DLC's main scenario is done, a new batch of sidequests pop up to let the overall story breathe, and they're vital for giving Shula and the people of Mysidia closure. I'm a bit shocked these are marked as sidequests considering how impactful they are in contextualizing The Rising Tide. And while the reward for completing all of it isn't necessarily a tangible one, it's an emotional payoff that instead brings some much needed warmth to FFXVI's dark world.
Playing through The Rising Tide was bittersweet. For all its flaws, I have a deep fondness for Final Fantasy XVI, so I was happy to have a strong hook to bring me back to Valisthea, even if it was a rather short-lived journey that wrapped up just as I was starting to vibe with the new setting, abilities, and characters. In several ways, The Rising Tide offers something I wish the original game had a bit more of in its story: vibrance and warmth. FFXVI was outwardly grim and dark--fitting what it was going for. But having this contrast that complements the core themes of the original game was a real treat, especially with some great gameplay twists along the way. The Rising Tide is an easy recommendation for those who enjoyed the base game, and a damn fine way to send off FFXVI.
In the years since the explosion of game crowdfunding, a stigma has emerged surrounding these titles. Yes, there have been plenty of games that enjoyed great success after their crowdfunding campaigns, but more people remember the high-profile flops: games with big names and ambitious promises attached that, for a variety of reasons, betrayed the high hopes fans held for them. Many of these were revivals--spiritual or otherwise--of beloved series from ages past. Now we have Eiyuden Chronicle: Hundred Heroes, a crowdfunded game designed to carry the torch of the much-beloved Suikoden series from the PS1 and PS2--and, with such a high pedigree attached, there's understandable trepidation: Will this be a glorious return to form, or another disappointment? Fortunately, for us (and all of the backers), it turned out wonderfully.
Eiyuden Chronicle begins when a young man named Nowa joins the Eltisweiss Watch, a small militia unit under the command of Countess Perielle of the League of Nations. On a joint mission with a military team from the Galdean Empire, the Watch discovers a powerful, ancient artifact, the Primal Lens, earning everyone involved instant renown. However, it's not long before squabbling between the Empire and League over the device, along with internal power struggles in the Empire, erupts into an invasion of Eltisweiss and a full-blown war. As the scope of the conflict expands, so does the story: Nowa rebuilds a resistance army in an abandoned castle, Imperial military prodigy Seign struggles with his feelings of obligation, friendship, and loyalty, and a young warrior woman named Marisa finds her clan caught in the middle.
The story doesn't shy away from its similarities to games in the Suikoden series. In several ways, it outright embraces them: a story that branches into multiple viewpoints, loyalties among friends being tested during war, internal political intrigue, powerful magic runes being a crucial plot device, and, most obviously, the conceit of building a huge band of warriors to take on an even bigger enemy. The story was helmed by Suikoden creator and writer Yoshitaka Murayama (who sadly passed away shortly before the game's release), and it brims with the warmth, wit, and plot twists that made the early Suikoden titles so engaging and memorable.
Throughout the game, you'll be on the lookout for more characters to bolster the ranks of the Watch and, eventually, help build a base for the Resistance army. Some characters are easy to find and recruit, but others will require some searching or additional effort: You may have to go back to a town or dungeon from much earlier in the game, locate a rare item, play a minigame, or fend off a vicious foe to get someone to join the crew. Searching for heroes is a lot of fun (and much easier once you get the fast-travel ability), and the reward of seeing your base grow and improve with the efforts of your new comrades is immensely satisfying.
But the characters themselves are often their own reward. Despite having such a large cast, Eiyuden Chronicle manages to give each character their own unique voice and personality. They don't just fall into the background once their recruitment arc is over, either; they'll comment on current story events while they're in your party, chatter as you explore towns, and interact with other characters at the base and elsewhere on your travels. Sometimes they'll show up to add extra flair when you least expect it, like when they get dragged into judging a cooking competition.
Aside from giving you a good amount of freedom to search for friends when you feel like it, Eiyuden Chronicle's story progression is similar to the typical JRPG: mostly linear with major setpieces and battles to highlight key story points. You'll go through the usual dungeons, deserts, tundras, forests, and mines, sometimes needing to solve puzzles to progress. While most of the puzzles are pretty simple, they can sometimes be more obnoxious than intended due to random enemy encounters interrupting things at the worst possible times. Still, the dungeon design is solid and exploration is generally rewarding.
Combat is also heavily based on the Suikoden games: turn-based, with up to six active party members at a time, plus a seventh support member who can grant passive benefits like stat boosts or money gain. Characters can have both skills based on SP (which regenerates over time) and MP (which needs items to restore), and each be changed based on the runes that character has equipped. Placement is key: Some attacks and skills won't reach far beyond the front row, while some less-armored characters work better in the back--and there are also skills that target entire rows. One distinct combat element carried over from Suikoden is multi-character team attacks that require two or more characters with some sort of connection to be in the party together, who can then perform a tandem specialty attack.
Not every character in your army is available to fight, but you're still given a very wide selection of party members to pick from to fight the way you prefer. You're probably not going to use every single character you recruit in combat, and that's fine--seeing who you click with and building them up generally works well. And if you do need to bring a character you've been neglecting up to snuff, a graduated XP system works to get them to parity with your high-level warriors quickly. A bit of auto-battling and they should be set.
Boss battles are where things get interesting. Many boss fights in the game come with some sort of interactable gimmick that changes the way you approach the battle. These can be objects to hide behind to avoid damage, background objects that cause damage to either you or the opponent based on who gets to it first, or even a treasure lying just beyond a row of foes. Sometimes these gimmicks are really fun and clever, like a boss who gets knocked off-balance when one of the lackeys hoisting them on their backs is felled, leaving it defenseless. Sometimes it's miserable, like needing to guess which side of the arena the enemy will appear on to hit a book and deal extra damage, missing entirely if you guess wrong. When the gimmicks are good, they make for very fun fights, but when they're not, you'll be longing for more straightforward combat. And sometimes the boss is simply a big difficulty spike in general, leaving you in a very bad situation if you come in ill-prepared.
By far the worst combat experience, however, are the large-scale army battles. These play out like a turn-based strategy game, with your party members commanding armies and moving around a grid, but lack any of the fun and excitement you'll find in a dedicated strategy-RPG. You spend most of the time just watching things happen, feeling like you have very little control over the proceedings as the armies you moved around, slowly engage the enemy. You're left hoping they'll do more damage than the opposition so you can go back to the fun parts of the game instead.
Overall, Eiyuden Chronicle hits the retro-RPG sweet spot nicely. It's focused on delivering that warm, comforting feeling of a classic JRPG, and even all of the side distractions--the card minigame, the weird Pokemon/Beyblade hybrid top minigame, the raising/racing sim, even commodities trading--don't distract too much from the game's prime mission. Add some gorgeously painted and animated spritework and a stellar soundtrack into the mix, and you've got a delightful experience that sometimes falters, though not enough to make you put it down. Eiyuden Chronicle: Hundred Heroes might not be revolutionary, but it successfully delivered on its core promise--and that's really all it needed to do.
As its name implies, Shadow Legacy's main gimmick is its use of shadows. You play as Ayana, the last of the titular Ereban, a people who possess the innate ability to become one with and manipulate shadows. Using her shadow merge ability, Ayana can sink into shadows to creep past enemies, slink up walls, and dispose of bodies, encouraging you to stick to the shadows where your toolbelt is at its strongest. Alongside these shadow abilities, Ayana has an assortment of advanced gadgets--some are always useful like a recon pulse that marks enemies and items through walls, while others are more situational like mines that stun targets--which work regardless of the lighting situation.
I initially thought that this would present plenty of opportunities and strategies to sneak past enemies, most of whom will take out Ayana in a single hit. There's a healthy variety of foes who want to take her down--standard enemies don't pose much threat beyond the flashlight they carry to take away your darkness, but the more adept snipers can spot you from afar and the stealthy droids who can go invisible can ruin your day if you're not taking time to look for the telltale shimmer. And then there are the human enemies who present a moral quandary rather than a gameplay one--while the mechanical droid-like enemies that dominate each level can be killed with impunity, murdering the living and breathing human workers will negatively impact Ayana's morality and others' perception of her (which I'll touch on a bit more later).
Unfortunately, Ayana's natural ability to merge into the shadows and traverse unseen is very powerful--so powerful, in fact, that you don't really need to rely on anything else. The enemies aren't very smart either, so they're easy to avoid even if you solely rely on shadow merge. This means that it's actually quite easy to go through the entire game without being seen or resorting to lethally cutting down humans, making for a stealth game that doesn't quite give you enough opposition to challenge you to think critically when it comes to circumnavigating a threat. There aren't any difficulty settings to make the enemies smarter or more plentiful either--though you can adjust how many environmental guides show up in each level (purple lamps or purple paint that point you in the general direction you have to go, for example).
Shadow Legacy teases you with a tantalizing view of what it could be in its third chapter, briefly breaking free from its otherwise linear stealth levels to give you a playground in which you can tackle an assortment of missions in any order within an open area. Within this open space, you have more of a choice in how you approach each assignment instead of being funneled through a more linear challenge. Mistakes have a more drastic impact because you're not moving from one area to the next--it's all one big connected location, where your actions can snowball into unintended effects. Ayana's assortment of abilities and gadgets also have way more utility in this level. The binoculars used for scouting and mapping enemy movements are way more valuable in a giant open space than in an enclosed laboratory or city street, for instance. The game never opts for this format again, however, and in doing so it leaves me wishing for what might have been.
To the game's credit, the back half of Shadow Legacy has some creative set pieces from a platforming standpoint, with one section in particular that I adored for how well it challenged and encouraged me to utilize all I had learned up to that point in one fast-paced gauntlet. Shadow merge can be used to eject out of shadows to make otherwise impossible jumps or interact with the environment to solve simple riddles--skills that apply to challenges that steadily get more complex as the game goes on. Even if Shadow Legacy falls short of being a great stealth game, it's a good platformer. The environmental elements create an assortment of shadows--some oddly shaped, others that move, and still more that can be altered--and figuring out how to reach an out-of-the-way platform is sometimes a puzzle within itself, made trickier and more rewarding to solve given the stamina meter tied to Ayana's shadow merge. Not only do you have to figure out which shadows to move or follow or jump between, but you also usually have to do it in a timely manner.
In service of these platforming challenges, Shadow Legacy features a colorful diversity of locales, ranging from an outpost in the desert to an autonomous factory. My favorite is an urban street that hints at the human life that once populated it, now devoid of any movement save for the autonomous drones that patrol the streets and promise that this is for the best. Sporadic graffiti and text logs hint at the growing loss of autonomy among the human citizens leading up to the corporate takeover that promised everyone a better life. It's such an eerie level, framed against the setting sun that's causing the street to slowly be encroached by shadow. It feels fitting that Ayana uses those same shadows to sneak her way past the guards searching for her, paralleling how the oppressive regime's efforts can't stop the resistance--they squeezed so much life out of this one city block that now there's no living soul to report Ayana to the authorities, just dumb, easily-fooled machines.
Guiding Ayana through these challenges is a story that never quite gets room to breathe. Initially trapped by an AI-controlled entity hellbent on using her powers for some unknown purpose, Ayana finds herself quickly working with the resistance seeking to free themselves from corporate tyranny. Ayana is hesitant to work with them, having heard they're nothing more than terrorists but agrees to use her unique skillset to help on the condition that the group gives her everything they know about the Ereban people. There are some interesting, albeit familiar, narrative themes here, but Shadow Legacy rushes through them--Ayana buys into the resistance's cause remarkably quickly, for example, despite being given no catalyst to do so.
In the game's third chapter, Ayana is warned to spare humans so as to help alleviate the accusations that the members of the resistance are terrorists. This is the game's morality system, shifting the coloring of Ayana's design toward shining white or sinister purple depending on how bloodthirsty you play her. As far as I can tell, the ramifications of this only impact one small moment in the final level of the game--it's not much of a narrative payoff.
At certain points in the story, Ayana can upgrade her shadow powers and you have a choice of whether to unlock new branches on one of two skill trees. One branch leans toward non-lethal abilities, like cushioning your footsteps, while the other opts for skills that make you a better killer, like making it easier to hide bodies so your deeds aren't discovered. This creates some fun replayability as it's impossible to fully unlock both branches in a single playthrough, but, again, shadow merge is just too strong. The new powers are cool, but I never had to use them, as shadow merge makes it fairly easy to sneak through a level without being spotted. Granted, I opted for a nonlethal run. It's possible that if I had aimed for a playthrough where I killed everything that moved, I'd have needed to rely on more of the powers that hide bodies or kill multiple enemies at a time in order to not alert guards that something was wrong.
Ereban: Shadow Legacy sits in a weird place for me. As a stealth game, it rarely challenged me, reducing protagonist Ayana into a one-trick pony that could sneak past any target with the same shadow merge skill every time. But as a platformer, Shadow Legacy incorporates some entertaining puzzles that grow increasingly complex and rewarding to overcome. I never quite managed to connect to Ayana's journey against the autonomous overlords planning to doom an entire civilization, but I had a lot of fun slinking up walls and exploding out of the darkness, striving to time my jumps with the movement of a windmill and the rotating shadow it was casting. Those nail-biting moments are the ones that stuck with me, not the dozenth time I slunk past an unsuspecting droid.
nan
The main character in this open-world action-RPG adaptation of the late Akira Toriyama's Sand Land is arguably its egg-shaped tank. Developer ILCA has crafted a game with a heavy emphasis on vehicular combat and traversal, which is a fitting design choice considering Toriyama's love and passion for anything with a motor. You only have to glance at the number of vehicles featured in the Dragon Ball series to appreciate the legendary artist's vehicular love affair. As iconic and instantly recognizable as Toriyama's character designs are, his unique vehicle designs are just as evocative and essential to his signature world-building. Whether it's a car, scooter, hovercraft, or airship, Toriyama's anomalous designs are a delight, and Sand Land's bulbous tank is one of his best, mixing his characteristics with historical influences to create a memorable piece of machinery. ILCA's Sand Land might lack substance beneath its oozing style, but sitting behind the cockpit of some of Toriyama's intricately designed vehicles is a near-constant treat, even if it falters elsewhere.
The first half of the game's story is a faithful retelling of the original 14-chapter one-shot manga released in 2000. Set in the titular wasteland, Sand Land centers on a desert world suffering from an extreme water shortage, where sci-fi, fantasy, action, and comedy intertwine. You play as the rambunctious pink-skinned demon prince, Beelzebub, a video game-obsessed fiend who's as good as gold despite his protestations otherwise. Alongside the stern-faced Sheriff Rao and your wise old pal, Thief, you embark on a quest to uncover a rumored water source that will hopefully restore Sand Land to life. The second half of the game's narrative covers the brand-new events featured in the recently released anime adaptation. While the first six episodes of the show rehash the familiar ground of the manga, the last seven episodes function as a sequel to the original story, with Toriyama conceptualizing a fresh tale that sees Beelzebub, Rao, and Thief embroiled in a lopsided war after venturing into the neighboring Forest Land.
Sand Land might not be as popular as Toriyama's other works, such as Dragon Ball and Dr. Slump, but despite its niche nature, its recent resurgence isn't without merit. The characters and world-building found in Sand Land are its greatest strength, and these elements are seamlessly translated into the game. The relationship between Beelzebub, Rao, and Thief is just as charming as it was on the page, while the game's open world gives their conversations and banter space to breathe as you travel between locations. These moments excel when pulling lines straight from the manga, but pockets of incidental dialogue have a habit of repeating over and over again, which quickly becomes grating to the point where I wish I could've muted it completely.
Fortunately, the story itself is well told, meshing a whimsical child-like wonder with more profound explorations of prejudice, trauma, corporate greed, and the ecologism that exists in a world ravaged by humans. One of Sand Land's main themes is a self-reflective notion not to judge a book by its cover, and Rao's backstory focuses on the horrors of war and genocide and how they can still impact people decades after the fact. The entire core cast of characters is also well-layered, informed by their past lives while learning and growing as they unearth more information about the world and each other. The plethora of optional side quests tend to be verbose, even when their contents aren't particularly interesting or original. Some of these tales do at least expand on Toriyama's world-building, though, showing how regular people live and survive in the harshness of Sand Land's vast desert landscape.
Aside from its narrative, another area where the game captures one of the manga's core aspects is its focus on imaginative vehicles. You have access to various two- and four-wheeled machines that can be swapped on the fly as you traverse Sand Land's open world. The iconic tank is the star of the show, sputtering fumes from its exhaust pipes as its undulating treadwheels glide over the sand; it's surprisingly nimble despite its bulky frame, lending combat a sense of fluidity as you dodge incoming fire and pepper enemy tanks with your own booming cannon. You also have access to a secondary weapon--typically something automatic like a Gatling gun--that can be used to dispatch foot soldiers and some of the smaller beasts you'll encounter. This creates a satisfying flow to combat as you swap between weapons while one is reloading and outmaneuver your enemies using the tank's speed boost and inherent agility.
Customization is a significant part of the experience, allowing you to swap out either of the tank's weapons with new and upgraded parts. There isn't much variety in how these weapons handle, however--one cannon might fire slightly faster than another or inflict burning damage, but they still feel very much the same. Crafting new parts is also overly cumbersome, as the game doesn't let you compare what you're building with what you currently have equipped. Enemies scale to your level, too, so there isn't a tangible sense of progression, even as you install new parts with higher damage output. This is disappointing and takes away from the customization's potential. Even so, Sand Land's tank-based action is still fun, with rewarding shooting, despite a lack of evolution. Additional cooldown-based abilities--of which you can equip one--add another element to combat. These can be focused on defense, granting you extra armor or an interception system that shoots down incoming missiles, or they can be more offensive abilities like an explosive laser or an outrigger that locks the tank in place, allowing you to rapidly fire the main cannon while stationary.
Additional vehicles include a motorbike, hovercar, dirt buggy, and jump-bot, among others. Each has its own set of weapons for use in a pinch, but these vehicles are primarily focused on traversal. The motorbike, for instance, is the fastest way to get around Sand Land's open world, to the point where it can cross quicksand without sinking. The jump-bot, meanwhile, is a lumbering two-legged machine that lets you leap great heights to navigate the game's various platforming sections. You might try the motorbike's shotgun or the car's guided-missile system in combat, but considering you can just swap to the tank at any time, the other vehicles feel superfluous once bullets start flying. The Battle Armor you unlock towards the end of the game is the only exception, mainly because it lets you uppercut enemy tanks into the air.
When you're not piloting one of these vehicles, Sand Land takes a notable dip in quality. Being a demon prince, Beelzebub is no slouch when fighting hand-to-hand. There's a typical mix of light and heavy attacks, plus a dodge, and you can unlock both passive and active abilities for Rao and Thief, including a personal tank Rao will pilot to help you out. Not that you'll need much assistance. Sand Land's melee combat is simplistic, with a string of light attacks all that's required to defeat most enemies. Sometimes you'll need to dodge incoming attacks--telegraphed by your opponent glowing red--and Beelzebub has a few unlockable abilities for dealing extra damage to more formidable enemies. Fighting multiple threats at once is its greatest challenge, only because there's no way to swap between targets when locked on, resulting in an awkward back and forth. It doesn't take long for this ponderous dance to grow stale, with the only saving grace being that melee combat isn't too frequent.
The same can be said for Sand Land's rudimentary stealth sections. Trial and error is the name of the game here, with an instant fail state present whenever you're spotted. Fortunately, these clandestine moments are straightforward enough to navigate without attracting prying eyes. The main issue is that your crouched movement is slow and monotonous, offering a change of pace that wasn't desired. Stealth also tends to occur in samey military bases, which is also an issue elsewhere. You're forced to traverse the innards of near-identical crashed ships multiple times throughout the game, which only adds to the inane repetition of its stealth and melee combat.
The abundance of side quests are similarly bland, often tasking you with killing a certain number of enemies to either save someone or acquire crafting materials. Sometimes, you might have to search ancient ruins for a specific item or win one of the desert races, but you're mostly just repeating the same tasks for different reasons. Most of these quests revolve around the town of Spino and your efforts to make it somewhere people would want to live. You'll complete quests for the likes of traders and farmers that lead to them joining the town and gradually growing it throughout the game. The quests themselves might be dull, but watching the town's progress is rewarding, especially when it comes with the convenience of putting everything you need in a single hub. It's just a shame the process behind the town's resurgence isn't more engaging.
The story behind Sand Land's creation is funny but also sad in a way. Toriyama initially made Sand Land for his own personal enjoyment, devising a short story about an old man and his tank. However, the tank proved more challenging to draw than expected, and since Toriyama stubbornly insisted on drawing everything himself, he came to regret the idea. He persevered anyway, eventually releasing the manga for public consumption, and his pain was certainly our gain. Toriyama's love of vehicles shines through in Sand Land and is where its most enjoyable moments reside. It's disappointing that it flounders in other areas, particularly when it comes to stealth and melee combat, but ILCA has still managed to capture the heart and spirit of the original manga through its story, characters, and vehicular combat and traversal. Sand Land is bittersweet in many ways, but it'ss a testament to Toriyama's talents as both an artist and storyteller that, despite its numerous flaws, it's still worth playing.
What we let inspire us and what we pay homage to says a lot about the creations we make. Stellar Blade's influences come from the last two generations of character action games and it wields them proudly, channeling not just ideas but themes, designs, and even stylistic flourishes from games like Bayonetta and Nier Automata. It is only through understanding where Stellar Blade comes from that one can begin to discern what it improves upon and where it falls short of the giants that developer Shift Up's title wishes to stand on the shoulders of.
Stellar Blade puts you in control of Eve, a human arriving at a far-flung future Earth riddled with monsters known as Naytibas. EVE possesses superhuman powers, having been raised on a space colony and trained specifically to free what few survivors remain on the planet from the oppression of this omnipresent and existential threat. Along the way, the story takes a few twists and turns but largely stays in the realm of pulp science-fiction that is sometimes undermined by its own need to one-up itself. Characters change motives in service of plot twists at the drop of a hat and then resume their previous mindset without acknowledgement or comment. There are times that I wished the writing showed a bit more self-restraint rather than feel like the first season of a TV show throwing a hail-mary for a second.
The weight of the inconsistent quality of the writing tilts heavier towards Stellar Blade's disadvantage, as occasional head-scratching side quests are followed up by decidedly compelling ones, though not as often as it should. Just when you feel fatigued with following waypoints, the game serves a side quest with unique content and boss fights or a narrative beyond looking for someone who it turned out already died. The main story grazes the surface of subject matter like transhumanism and moral relativity, but it does little with them. Stilted and stiff voice acting also does little to help you take the story seriously and often brings you out of it. Historically, the quality of a character action game's story has scarcely mattered to the overall package, but those expecting something above the genre average should readjust expectations.
Where Stellar Blade does shine is in its moment-to-moment gameplay. The act of doing things, be they running full speed down the slope of a desert dune or fighting a cockroach monster that leaps out at EVE from behind a box, is genuinely quite fun. EVE is generally given a mission that involves her, a fair amount of dynamic set pieces, and a large number of monsters, and that formula is successful more often than not. There are a handful of missteps among these moments--jumping sections, occasional puzzles that task EVE with playing an arcade-like pipe-connecting game, a keypad variation on Simon Says, or a long Sonic-like tunnel surfing segment--that either do not synchronize with the game's inherent floatiness or feel like diversions that never end, but it understands its own strengths most of the time.
Gameplay is bolstered by an interesting and exciting combat system that leans heavily on parries and dodges as its core foundation. Far from a combofest, Stellar Blade puts meat on the bones by feeding all your actions in battle into ultra-powerful special moves. Surviving through an enemy onslaught by deflecting attacks or dodging out of the way does more than keep your life bar intact, as it cranks up the dial of the moves you use to respond when you're finally given that frame of opportunity. Defeat at the hands of an enemy can rarely be attributed to a surprise attack or a pattern that defies reaction time, but rather a lesson in understanding how it moves and how to employ your myriad options in response. Most of EVE's deaths in combat suggests an invitation to come back armed with knowledge you did not possess the last time you crossed that threshold.
The larger issue, and what keeps Stellar Blade from surpassing its well-known muses, is that Shift Up's title does not demonstrate a particularly learned display of pacing. This is not to say that Stellar Blade is too short; for the genre, it sits on the higher end of hour-counts. The problem is that individual sections of the game are entirely too long. Nearly every door you need to go through is locked or unpowered, leading to a detour to find the key or press the switch that opens the door you hoped to go through ages ago, making it a rarified occasion when you do simply walk through the path you expected. Things that should feel like set pieces you are meant to tear through start to feel overlong in their execution when tasked with fighting 30 enemies before you can get to the anti-air turret you're meant to destroy while being fully aware that it is one of nine that need to be sought out before the level can end. Sections like this needed a hammer, not a scalpel.
In that sense, it is often like Stellar Blade wants to have its pacing both ways. On one hand, the game is constantly pushing you in a direction that feels like progression from a top-down perspective. On the other hand, a fair proportion of the game's enemies feel like genuine threats that can destroy EVE in one strong combo and, by contrast, they take a fair number of special moves and attacks to finally rout. But by putting so many of them between you and the objective, those little moment-to-moment instances of fun begin to feel unwieldy and slightly tedious when stacked on top of each other. When the only real punishment for death is retreading the same combat-filled path once again, at some point that feels punitive enough.
The game's structure sometimes allows for you to make your own pacing by completing missions largely centered in the game's open fields. While large, these areas mostly funnel you down existing paths regardless of whether or not you can imagine a more creative trail. Most frustratingly, there are only two of these zones and both are themed after deserts--one subtropical, one semi-arid--meaning a prime opportunity for variety is wasted. A minimap desperately needed to be included for these more open areas rather than a separate and ill-used map screen. Moreover, the cutoff for side quests is surprisingly early into the game and explicitly warned to you, meaning you have to pack a lot of these missions in when they would feel better spread out over a longer period of time.
A mitigating factor for that occasional tiresomeness is the game's soundtrack, which consists of banger after banger. Cruising through the desert doing sub-missions for hours feels almost zen-like when accompanied by the soft interjections of a vocalist's crooning. Boss fights run the gamut from heavy metal to pop, all making appropriate aural partners to the sound of steel clashing against steel.
Similarly, Stellar Blade can often impress graphically, between giant set pieces that dazzle to rather stunning character models. The NPCs were clearly prioritized in different categories, with some looking like living plastic dolls and others reusing bits and pieces of other less-prominent characters, but the main cast generally impresses in both fidelity and animation.
While Stellar Blade's non-linear areas offer little in the way of environmental variety, the main story stretches itself a little bit further. The game as a whole, barring a last-minute jaunt into a visually exciting new frontier, tends to take place in the ruined buildings and the tunnels beneath them. The post-apocalyptic setting allowed Shift Up to create any combination of elements and ambiance they wanted, so it is disappointing to delve into samey tunnels so often. A globetrotting adventure in the middle of a sci-fi world should inspire awe, but Stellar Blade only manages this with its environments in rare instances.
While exploring, you will also find mountains of loot from both treasure chests and enemy drops, but it never gets overwhelming. The vast majority of collectable items are resources given to various shopkeeps, with the occasional equipment drop hoping to fit your playstyle. Each equippable spine or gear can slightly alter the way EVE plays, but nothing makes such a dramatic difference that stats are completely unignorable. If you wish not to bother with them and only care about bigger numbers, Stellar Blade is happy to oblige.
As for the game's controversial sexiness, I found it to largely be nothing notable as either a pro or a con. The only time it became anything more than window dressing for me was a twinge of annoyance when quests or exploration yielded naught but another dress that gives no stat benefits. I would have preferred something that makes me stronger rather than yet another skintight suit, as if I did not already possess an inventory full of them. That EVE has breasts was immaterial to the rest of the game beyond her character model and only really novel in its opening hours.
Stellar Blade has a dreamlike quality in a way, which shouldn't be misinterpreted as saying everything about it is fantastic. Rather, it is like one of those half-remembered dreams that sticks in the back of your mind the entire day. You recall vague details--a collapsing train yard, a ruined opera house, an Asian garden--and forget the blips in between. I came away from Stellar Blade having enjoyed the game quite a bit despite its foibles on the back of its incredibly strong systems. That its biggest weakness is that its tribulations can go on too long is perhaps praise from another perspective not my own.
There is a nagging question, though, that sticks in the back of my mind: Does this game rise to the heights its inspirers achieved? The conclusion I came to is no, but that it attempts so without falling on its face is remarkable enough. That it manages to be a great game in that pursuit is a true testament to the power of being galvanized by those that came before.
Tales of Kenzera sees you play as Zau, the fictional hero of a story that a father wrote for his son just prior to the father's death. Zau, similarly, is working through the grief of a lost father. Unable to get past the pain, he calls upon the god of death, Kalunga, and offers him a deal: If Zau successfully brings the three great spirits that have resisted Kalunga to the land of the dead, then Kalunga will bring Zau's father back to life. The god agrees and the duo set out, Zau relying on the shaman masks and training he inherited from his father to overcome the dangers of nearby lands. As a metroidvania, the game features moments where Zau must backtrack and use newly unlocked abilities (freezing water, for example, or a grappling hook used to swing over large pits), which Kalunga helps Zau master to navigate the distinct biomes of the map.
Inspired by Bantu mythology, Tales of Kenzera's map is a beautiful maze that pulls from African culture to characterize and flavor the interconnected areas. The myths of the Bantu color the undertones to the story, equating Zau's battle against larger-than-life monsters with a spiritual journey--you don't question how or why Zau's efforts to beat up a mother helps convince her to come to terms with leaving her daughter behind. Within Tales of Kenzera's lore, these actions make sense, reframing the physical space of the world into something more akin to a mental palace. That reframing contributes to the explosive battles, too, with the sound design and orchestral score of the soundtrack transforming each fight into a frenetic dance of emotion and spiritual energy where flame-infused shockwaves are stand-ins for violent outbursts and well-timed dodges equate to a carefully considered counterargument.
Each locale feels distinct from the others, both in color scheme and challenges. The sickly green swamps and massive trees of the forest to the west test Zau's acrobatic abilities, for instance, while the volcanic heat and dry oranges and reds of the desert to the north features plenty of endurance-focused challenges that force Zau to withstand large groups of enemies or solve multi-step environmental puzzles. The structure of these areas interweave with the story, enriching the narrative in rewarding ways. The aforementioned desert sees Zau come to understand that grief isn't something that can be simply overcome--it continues to wash over you in waves, much like the waves of enemies he has to contend with. And sometimes grief can waylay you by showing up in a recognizable but slightly different form, much in the same way the numerous environmental puzzles in the desert region are larger, more convoluted versions of what Zau had to solve in previous areas. We as the player overcome these obstacles alongside Zau working through his pain--he grows as we do, strengthening our connection to his journey.
The mentor/mentee relationship between Kalunga and Zau is front and center throughout, with Kalunga regularly appearing to Zau to provide insight and guidance to the lands' history and culture, as well as to help Zau process his bubbling emotions. Actors Abubakar Salim and Tristan D. Lalla lend incredible gravitas to their respective performances--Salim seamlessly dips back and forth between hot-headed arrogance and barely contained sorrow in voicing the grieving Zau, while Lalla lends a power and authority to Kalunga's fatherly tone. The two characters' growth over the course of the game is surprisingly wholesome despite the dour plotline, making it easy to invest into Zau's development as a shaman.
The other characters in Tales of Kenzera aren't as fleshed out, only appearing a handful of times and always being relegated to narrative devices that tell Zau what macguffin he has to chase after next. The voice acting for these characters is still superb, but the supporting cast--both the humans and the great spirits--is let down by its minimal presence in the story.
The framing device for Zau's story--that this is a story left behind for a grieving boy in the real world--also feels disruptive. Near the end of Zau's adventure, you're abruptly yanked back into the real-world to be reminded of this framing device, which felt incredibly jarring. Zau's story of working through loss was working as a healing experience for me and the game felt the need to stop to explain its own premise, as if it were directly telling me that media can help people overcome grief. And, yes, I know. I was experiencing that sensation. The game broke its own illusion to specifically remind me that it was an illusion, and that lessened the impact of the final moments of Zau's journey. It didn't ruin the ending, but it certainly disrupted the narrative flow leading into Tales of Kenzera's conclusion.
Tales of Kenzera's combat mechanics, however, are fantastic all the way through. Zau can instantly swap between wearing the mask of the sun and the mask of the moon, each granting him different mechanics. The sun mask focuses on melee while the moon mask prioritizes long-range attacks, but the cadence of each bleeds into the other, rewarding you for chaining together the movements of both masks with devastating pirouettes. One of my favorite combos is slamming down into a foe with the summoned spears of the sun mask, switching to the moon mask to blast them away, dashing toward them, and switching back to the sun to hit them with a four-hit melee combo that launches them skyward, giving me a chance to switch back to the moon and juggle them in the air with ranged attacks.
Zau is powerful, but his enemies are numerous, transforming combat into a puzzle where situational awareness trumps power. As such, the game encourages you to dance between targets, overcoming overwhelming odds by being nimble. The movements of both Zau and enemies are sharp and the game makes good use of color--blue and orange for Zau and green and purple for enemies--to keep the fast-paced fights readable. Rarely does it feel like a loss is due to poor luck--the visual clutter of particle effects can become a problem if you're ever standing still long enough for enemies to surround you, but that feels more like a consequence of a mistake on the player's part rather than a detriment of the game itself.
You don't get many upgrades to Zau's combat throughout the adventure. There is a skill tree, but unlocks are geared toward improving existing mechanics--charging the projectiles of the moon mask to unleash a more substantial attack, for instance, or increasing the sun mask's combo chain from three to four strikes. Instead, most of the combat's evolution is based on the enemies that Zau has to fight. You initially only face warriors armed with simple melee attacks or slow-moving projectiles, but you quickly have to take on enemies who shield themselves or fast ball-like foes who willingly explode to take you down with them. And none of them compare to the dastardly fireflies who sap your health to heal other enemies.
Tales of Kenzera's easy opening belies its surprising challenge, especially its tough latter half. There is a difficulty slider that allows you to adjust how much Zau can endure before dying and how much damage he has to deal in order for an enemy to perish, so there is some control in how tough combat is (you can adjust the slider at any time as well, so you won't be punished for accidentally picking a setting too tough or easy at the start). Instant-kill hazards are not affected by difficulty, so there's no way to make traversal challenges easier, but the game is generous with the checkpoints (save for a few exceptions, which we'll get into in a bit), preventing any seemingly insurmountable walls from becoming frustratingly so.
Zau's efforts to pull the great spirits into the realm of the dead culminate in boss battles, and the combat is at its best during these. Most of them see Zau clash with monstrously large beings who are grieving in their own right. Their emotional state informs not only how they fight but what Zau must do in order to get through to them and defeat them. A great spirit overcome with rage angrily lashes out at everything around him, for example, creating huge walls that push out at Zau and threaten to force him off the ledge of the arena unless you use his recently acquired ability to blast through obstacles. This also causes the spirit's own attack to explode and briefly stun him--his anger literally blowing up in his face makes it harder for him to fight you.
The drama and tension of these encounters are amplified by powerful musical scores. I had to step away from Tales of Kenzera and compose myself after battling the great spirit who is overcome with fear, as the escalating rhythm of the score and tension of the string instruments playing through the boss fight made an already stressful fight a more unnerving experience than I expected. The true strength of these fights is how they are emotionally resonant as well as mechanically satisfying--they're the moments when the game is firing on all cylinders, using combat and traversal mechanics, enemy and sound design, and music to emulate one of the more pivotal steps in one boy's struggle with grief. They're all powerful spectacles that I'm still marveling over.
On the other hand, Tales of Kenzera has a few chase sequences that veer toward irritating. These cinematic platforming sections are a common inclusion in the metroidvania genre, a staple that goes back to the original Metroid and Samus' scramble to escape Zebes after killing Mother Brain. In most cases, however, these sequences either afford you a chance to recover from your mistakes (like Metroid) or incorporate numerous autosave checkpoints throughout the section (like Ori and the Will of the Wisps or Hollow Knight). Tales of Kenzera does neither, meaning a mistake usually results in a death that sends you back to the beginning of the sequence, forcing you to redo it over and over. There's a particularly tough sequence near the end of the game where Zau is being chased by something that will kill him instantly, which requires hopping between narrow platforms and over lava that will also kill him instantly to escape. Maybe I'm just getting old, but it took me nearly a dozen attempts to get through that part of the game and by try number seven, I was really frustrated that I had to start over each time.
Thematically, you could say that these sequences emulate working through the fear and anger parts of grief, as both sections deal with the great spirits that embody those emotions, as well as the idea that false starts are an inevitable part of the healing process. And in the same way that there are no save points in working through fear or anger, there are no checkpoints to these platforming sections. That comparison loses value when the rest of the game is hypervigilant about autosaving your progress, however. It's in these moments that there is a conflict between the fun you expect from a metroidvania and the potential desire to convey an emotional state. Tales of Kenzera cleverly blends the two through most of its elements (especially its world and boss design), but falters when it comes to these traversal challenges--the sheer frustration of these platforming do-overs results more in a lack of fun than it summons a sensation of anger or fear. Thankfully, these moments are few and far between, meaning they're only a small irritating blip to what's otherwise a fun game.
Harold Halibut does an incredible job in exploring its many themes and concepts by putting a magnifying glass on its setting. The FEDORA is a spaceship that was designed to leave Earth during the Cold War and set forth on a 200-year journey to seek a new planet to live on, but the new world it found was devoid of any landmass. With nowhere to go, the FEDORA crashes onto the planet, plunging its occupants into the watery depths, which they've learned to colonize. Meanwhile, Harold's mentor and resident scientist, Mareaux, attempts to find a power source to launch the ship back into space to find a more suitable planet to live on.
In the meantime, as Harold, you interweave through the lives of the FEDORA's inhabitants, the ship's politics, and its inner workings. It's a monotonous process that involves checking off Harold's tasks on his PDA-like device, as you move through his day-to-day life in the quirky retro-future spaceship. But Harold's life takes an abrupt turn after discovering a humanoid fish-like being has boarded the ship, creating a whole new perspective on the planet they've, in fact, been sharing all these years. It's in this moment that Harold's seemingly monotonous life is turned on its head, inspiring curiosity in what lies beyond the only world he's ever known.
Harold Halibut is striking in its visuals because it's entirely handmade. Characters, articles of clothing, pieces of furniture, teapots, mugs, floorboards, and everything else was handmade in our real world and digitally scanned into the 3D game. Its visuals instantly distinguish Harold Halibut as one of the most visually interesting games of the year. But while it's easy to get swept up in the awe of its look, the strongest characteristic of the game is the world itself and the characters within it.
Harold Halibut is entirely focused on exploration, conversational choices, and the occasional challenge-free minigame. At its core, Harold Halibut is focused on the world and the characters that inhabit it, which, story aside, is where the game is at its best. While you may play as Harold, it's the characters you interact with who give the game a sense of intimacy and, over time, a feeling of density that shows there's actually a lot going on--these are the game's biggest achievement.
Across my 18 hours, I met nearly two dozen characters, each with their own story to unpack, and I loved all of them. More than the discovery of an alien species, or the urgency to find a power source for the ship, my biggest motivation was to get to know each and every person aboard the FEDORA. Whether it was the comical musings of the sports store owner Slippie, or the by-the-book Major who enforces the ship's laws, each character is multifaceted, with deep personalities to learn, explore, and oftentimes see challenged.
While most of the time spent with these characters is completely optional, the game's most important and consequential moments, both hilarious and heart-wrenching, start and end with the citizens of FEDORA. The conversations can feel inconsequential in the grand scheme of the game's plot, but are invaluable to making this handmade world feel alive and lived in.
With the abundance of characters also comes a desperate need to keep track of them. Early in my time with the game, before I had become well acquainted with the cast of characters, I was often confused with who was who and where they were located. The game's lack of waypoints was to its benefit, however, as this kept me engaged in using the ship's signs to navigate its many sectors, but also better learn and remember these characters, as I would with people in real life. However, those early stages also created unnecessary friction by causing me to bumble around and waste time. This could have been alleviated with the addition of an in-game glossary to remind me who is who that could have existed in Harold's PDA.
Each character is as distinct in their looks as they are their views on life--even with the shared perspective of living in the confines of a small colony underwater. It's their stories that gives the FEDORA believability and lends the game a prevailing heart and soul that overshadows all of the game's other plotlines. But its achievement of creating a rich cast of characters also gives rise to struggles in properly exploring them under the weight of its other story ambitions.
Aside from the thoughts and feelings of its very broad cast of characters is an abundance of ideas and narratives driving the main plot. These range from unpacking a corporation's ulterior motives, to a secret society lurking in the shadows, to the urgency to locate a power source for the FEDORA. And while they are no doubt necessary to tell an overarching story, they feel like ideas that are too big for the dollhouse-sized nature of Harold Halibut.
As Harold's world aboard a spaceship begins to collide with the alien world he's been living on, he makes friends with the planet's inhabitants, which are known as the Flumuylum. The fish-like humanoids' philosophies are a complete contrast to that of humans, though also pretty much what you'd imagine what it would be like if fish were humans: a species that simply floats along through life, existing and observing, giving little to no meaning to anything. This mentality crashes head-on with Harold's everyday existence: a life that boils down to routinely taking orders and doing what other people expect of him, often in service of the ship's corporation-based ethos and in adherence to arbitrary rules like having a curfew or paying for its water tube transportation system. The duality between Harold's and the Flumuylum's lives are juxtaposed for several hours in the game, until Harold is forced into a crash course in existentialism towards the latter half of the game, causing him to question whether or not he was ever in control of his own life. The scene was a tonal whiplash as the game made a hard turn to answer questions that it had only just begun to ask, and in doing so, felt more clunky than enlightening.
Harold's abrupt journey of introspection is sandwiched on top of and between the stories and ideologies of other characters, as well as the game's overarching plots and conspiracies. No one idea or theme felt like it had the breathing room it needed or deserved, which means they can feel more like fleeting concerns instead of food for thought. For example, one scene hints at themes of the industrialization, pollution, and consumption of animal products by the human race, only to never refer to it again, or even set up a satisfying throughline for its purpose in the first place.
In trying to weave its characters, story, and themes together, I found its focus to become muddled. With such an emphasis on all its characters, and by making them an integral part of the game's core experience, Harold ends up being the only character that has a substantial narrative arc--he sees his world through the lens of a mere errand boy but has his world turned upside down, creating a perspective that gives his life more meaning by the end. But in spending the time to do this, the game, in turn, leaves many threads for the other characters I had grown attached to feeling unfulfilled. By the time the climatic end unfolds, I was less interested in the conspiracies behind the events that transpired and more focused on the growth of the characters.
Harold Halibut is at its strongest when intimately exploring its characters, their inner workings, and their relationships with one another. But in attempting to build towards a dramatic conclusion, many of the hours spent fostering relationships with the characters took a backseat to plotlines that were less interesting.
To quote one of the game's own characters, Buddy the mailman, "each person aboard this ship is a world their own." In a story about a man trapped on a ship, who is trying to understand himself better, their lives and perspectives should be the most important stories to tell for Harold's journey. Harold Halibut's world and the people that inhabit it were literally crafted by people that cared about him and his story. And while that story struggles under the weight of its ambitions, the human touches on every part of it are evident. Those are the heart and soul of the game, and they imprinted on me too.
It only takes a single bullet to burn down an empire. That's the ethos behind Children of the Sun, an excellent supernatural puzzle-shooter from solo developer René Rother and publisher Devolver Digital. Like many of the games in Devolver's vast library, Children of the Sun is wonderfully stylish, violent, and built on a unique gameplay hook; think Sniper Elite mixed with Superhot and you're on the right track without quite telling the whole story.
You play as a protagonist known simply as The Girl, a one-woman wrecking crew waging a vengeful war against the eponymous cult that ruined her life. As one cultist after another is turned to mincemeat behind the vindictive crosshairs of your sniper rifle, you gradually make your way up the food chain until coming face-to-scope with your true target: The Leader. While embarking on this blood-soaked killing spree, hand-drawn flashbacks reveal tidbits about the atrocities committed by this mysterious cult and The Girl's reasons for seeking revenge.
There's no dialogue during these cutscenes; instead, the narrative is intentionally minimalist, bombarding you with unnerving memories that are both terse and chaotic. This scattershot approach makes it difficult to glean all of the available information--perhaps deliberately so--which means you might feel lost and slightly detached from the story at times. It's all complemented by a discordant soundscape of ambient white noise that matches the game's striking art style--composed of deep purples and vivid yellows--and gritty, surreal tone. The game's arresting aesthetic paints a picture of a brutal world of saturated filth, where cultists defile seedy motels, gloomy forests, and derelict apartment buildings, spreading their deceitful disease like plague-infested rats.
For as evocative as Children of the Sun's story, visuals, and music are, it's the innovative gameplay where it truly shines. At the beginning of each level, you're able to move The Girl either left or right on a predetermined path. Sometimes, you can navigate around a level in a full 360-degree circle, while other times, you may only be able to move a few yards before being impeded by a fallen tree or steep riverbank. From here, you can get a lay of the land, mark enemies, and determine the best position to fire from. Once you've aimed down the scope and pulled the trigger, the camera snaps to the crown of the bullet as it hurtles through the air. Blood spatter and disintegrated flesh usually follow, but the catch is that this is the only shot you'll fire for the duration of the level.
The Girl's backstory pulls from a classic fiction trope where a young girl discovers she has latent supernatural powers once she reaches puberty. Each time a bullet is propelled through a cultist's skull, time slows down to a crawl, and The Girl's psychic abilities let you take control of the round and re-aim, allowing a single bullet to cleave through an entire enemy compound in one fell swoop.
Initially, you can only move the bullet in a straight line from one enemy to the next, ping-ponging between them like a murderous pinball machine, and this makes your first shot the most crucial. From that initial point of impact, you need to chart a course through every other enemy until none are left alive. This is easier said than done, of course. While some enemies remain stationary, others are walking around, circling the entire map in a car, and sitting out of view of your initial vantage point. Considering all of this, you might have to finish a level by ensuring that the penultimate kill provides a clear sightline of the final cultist, who was hidden until now. There are wrong ways to do this, but there isn't a definitive right way, so experimentation is incentivized and rewarded.
As you progress through the story and more enemy types are introduced, you're given additional powers to counteract the likes of shielded and armored cultists and the increasingly elaborate environments they're inhabiting. The first of these powers lets you take direct control and gently curve bullets like James McAvoy in the 2008 film Wanted. This is useful for firing over walls and bending the shot so it lurches downwards and hits the cultist on the other side, or simply tweaking the bullet's trajectory to guarantee it lands on-target.
Another ability reveals enemy weak points, which, when destroyed in a hail of slow-motion blood, grant you the power to redirect the bullet in mid-flight. Using this, you can fire past a shield-wielding enemy and then spin the bullet around to nail them in the back of the head, entirely negating their bullet-proof protection. Other times, you might use this technique to escape a building and re-enter it elsewhere or fire into the sky to provide a better view of the area and uncover a previously elusive enemy.
Armored cultists, meanwhile, provide an altogether different challenge. The only way to penetrate their thick armor is by using a power shot--achieved by holding down the trigger for the duration of the bullet's flight. These shots necessitate a large enough distance between targets to build up the requisite velocity needed to blow through armor, so figuring out how to remove these enemies is a unique problem. Doing so is always a thrill, though, as you get the gratification of seeing the bullet reach supersonic speeds before blasting through the cultist's now-useless defense.
Finding a solution to each level's grisly puzzle is immensely satisfying, especially when trial and error is abundant. Your first few attempts might revolve around tentatively exploring to find where all of the cultists are located and then figuring out the best way to carve through each one. You can sometimes use the environment to your advantage, too, shooting vehicles' fuel caps and gas canisters to eliminate multiple enemies in one vehement explosion. You could blow up a car just to attain a better angle or snipe a pigeon flying overhead to gain a bird's eye view of the area. I wish there were more opportunities for environmental kills besides destroying vehicles and explosive barrels, but restricting how you can interact with the world around you adds to the challenge and sense of achievement when you emerge victorious.
At around three hours in length, Children of the Sun is a relatively brief experience. Usually, this would be a blessing in disguise for a game that doesn't diversify from its core conceit too often, yet I still found myself desperate for more. Fortunately, replayability is rife, as the game's scoring system encourages you to go back and replay previous levels to achieve a better rating. Headshots are scored differently from leg wounds, just as you earn more points for better timing and efficiency, while leaderboards create a sense of competition. Completing a level also reveals an excellent snapshot of the flight path of your bullet, which the game makes easy to share on social media for some extra fulfillment.
Children of the Sun's unconventional approach to sniping is consistently thrilling and wholly satisfying. It might be full of gruesome blood spatter and cracked skulls, but it's also the thinking person's shooter--more of a delightfully macabre puzzle game than anything else. It's admittedly short, and the game's longevity will largely depend on how hard you fall for its inventive and bloody puzzles. That shouldn't be a problem when it's so difficult not to. And even if it's relatively one-note, Children of the Sun plays that note with such morbid aplomb that it's easy to recommend.
Pandemic Studios' Battlefront and Battlefront 2 (not to be confused with EA DICE's 2015 Battlefront and 2017 Battlefront 2) are both shooters that focus on Star Wars' Clone Wars and Galactic Civil War periods, seeing you step into the boots of ordinary soldiers who participate in the conflicts. Mechanically, both games play very similarly to one another, though Battlefront 2 adds to the first with space battles, playable heroes (who are notable characters from the Star Wars movies like Yoda and Darth Vader), and a more story-driven campaign that ties into Revenge of the Sith.
Each army features four standard soldier archetypes. You've got your assault rifle-wielding standard trooper, long-range sniper user, heavy-hitting rocket launcher demolitionist, and a support soldier who excels at short-range combat and fixing up vehicles. Beyond those four, each army has additional special units--the Republic Clone Army has the jetpack-equipped Jet Trooper, for example, while the CIS has the roly-poly Droideka. Because the main units all handle the same for the most part, you don't have to learn entirely new mechanics for each class, while the more specialized troopers add a bit of distinct flair to each army. I like it--it makes it easy to pick up both games while also ensuring the gameplay doesn't grow stale quickly.
The collection includes six maps that were added as post-launch content to both games (one for Battlefront and five for Battlefront 2) as well as two playable heroes in Battlefront 2 who were previously Xbox-only DLC (Kit Fisto and Asajj Ventress). Beyond that, there are some changes to the gameplay, such as to Hero Assault, a Battlefront 2 game mode that sees all the playable Star Wars heroes face off against the villains. In the original Battlefront 2, this mode could only be played on the game's Tatooine map, but the Battlefront Collection makes the mode available on all ground-based maps. In addition, the collection adds cross-gen multiplayer support (but no cross-play, unfortunately) and increases the number of players per match to 32v32.
It's those improvements that irk me, as they're evidence that Aspyr Media did make efforts to change and improve aspects of the original games. And that's good! Great, even. But this decision throws what wasn't adjusted into stark contrast and highlights how outdated Battlefront and Battlefront 2's gameplay is. It locks the Battlefront Collection into this weird space where it's neither a good remaster nor a completely accurate preservation of the original games.
But even without that observation, it's clear that what was once great gameplay for a console shooter has lost its luster after 20 years. Battlefront 2 fares a tad better than the original game, given how it was able to make improvements to the first Battlefront's mechanics back in 2005--soldiers can sprint, the details of characters are sharper so it's easier to discern targets from further away, and maps are larger so firefights are more spread out. Plus, Battlefront 2 just has a more compelling campaign. Even if the story is no longer part of the Star Wars canon, witnessing the rise of the 501st Legion during the Clone Wars and subsequent transformation into Vader's Fist during the Galactic Civil War is still a compelling viewpoint for the Clone Troopers' view of the Star Wars movies, strengthened by the chilling narration of actor Temuera Morrison (Attack of the Clones' Jango Fett, The Book of Boba Fett's Boba Fett). His monologue of the troopers' silence as they march into the Jedi Temple to execute Order 66 is still one of my favorite moments from any Star Wars story, and 20 years later, it hasn't lost its impact.
Even if the story is still interesting to experience, however, the act of playing through it isn't all that fun. Movements are sluggish and aiming isn't precise, promoting the use of soldiers armed with automatic weapons over the others. The other classes are serviceable, but the gameplay clearly pushes you away from them, making every firefight feel increasingly the same. There's no incentive to branch out and master the other classes--victory is achieved by whittling down the other team first, so killing as many people as fast as you can is ideal, and that's just easier with an assault rifle or minigun than a sniper rifle or pistol.
Battles in the offline campaign and online multiplayer also suffer from imbalance--once one side takes the lead, they almost always win. It's clear there's meant to be some sort of tug-of-war element to each match, as each side fights over command posts, but it rarely plays out that way. Your side can only spawn from command posts your side has captured, so once one side has more command posts than the other, it's easier for that side to pressure the losing side as the number of places where the losing side can spawn shrinks. This creates a slog where it becomes quite clear about halfway through a match which side is going to take the win, and you're just left playing out the rest of the time to witness a conclusion that you saw coming. Heroes alleviate this a bit in Battlefront 2. If a player does well enough before being killed, they can spawn as their army's hero for that map, and certain heroes can change the tide in an instant (especially the villains on the CIS and Empire, who are all around stronger than the good guys for the Republic and Rebellion). This would be a great counterbalance to the uneven nature of Battlefront 2 if heroes could be summoned more regularly but, as is, they're just too tricky to unlock if you're on the losing end of a battle. It's hard to do well when the enemy is closing in around you. This issue is even worse in the original Battlefront, which doesn't have playable heroes.
The moment-to-moment gameplay of each match isn't all that fun either. Firearms aren't very precise, relying on a generous auto-aim feature that feels like it's rewarding me for pointing my gun roughly in the right direction instead of actually landing a precise shot. When I was a kid, I was always just happy that my friends and I won, but now as I see the "victory" message splash across the screen, all I can wonder is how it happened. I can't point to what in my performance led to my team winning as opposed to losing, leaving little opportunity to think back and improve. There's an uncomfortable amount of luck associated with victory--more than I want in a shooter.
The space battles in Battlefront 2 don't feel much better. It's telling that the campaign still lets you skip them outright if you want, like an admission that they aren't very fun (which is true). Though the concept of manning a starship and flying out to meet the enemy, whittling away at their capital ships or flying into their hangar to sabotage their systems from the inside is initially thrilling, it very quickly loses its appeal once you realize all matches play out pretty much the same. There's next to no variety to Battlefront 2's different space maps, so your strategy for one tends to work on all of them--you don't have to adapt, leaving the gameplay feeling stagnant. Plus, the starships in Battlefront 2 don't handle very well, making it frustratingly tricky to maneuver through dogfights.
The biggest detriment against the Battlefront Classic Collection is that we've had more Star Wars games since their release that all improved upon what Battlefront and Battlefront 2 did. EA DICE's two Battlefront games have sharper shooting mechanics that better reward precision and huge battlefields that prevent one side from quickly surrounding and destroying the other. 2020's Squadron's aerial dogfights are huge improvements over Battlefront 2's space battles, with more responsive controls and greater variety to the maps. Sure, Battlefront Collection brings these elements together, but not in a way that's strong enough to make this a more compelling experience than what's already out there.
Star Wars: Battlefront Classic Collection is ultimately just disappointing. It's unclear whether it wants to be a remaster or a collection that preserves two major games from Star Wars' history, but in both instances, it fails. This is neither an accurate representation of what Battlefront and Battlefront 2 were, nor does it make enough adjustments to bring two decades-old games into the modern era. The result is a collection that's not really fun to play, and well worth skipping.
As such, I have a particular fondness for mother-daughter stories and the catharsis they can offer. When I heard the team behind Gone Home would be tackling the subject in their upcoming game Open Roads, I braced for a beautiful cross-country journey that would inevitably hit too close to home. However, while Open Roads has moments of relatability that are powered by solid dialogue, charming characters, and nostalgia, I was ultimately left underwhelmed by the walk-and-click exploration game. With a runtime too short to truly pull players in and an abrupt ending that leaves things feeling hastily resolved, Open Roads feels more like a pit stop than an adventure.
That's not to say the game's premise isn't interesting. Open Roads begins shortly after the death of the Devine family matriarch, Helen, and follows her daughter Opal and her granddaughter Tess as they cope with loss and what to do next. Throughout the entirety of the game, we play as Tess, a 16-year-old high school student who is every bit as strong-willed, cheeky, and hopeful as most 16-year-old girls are. On top of her grandmother's death, Tess is also processing her parents' recent separation and the loss of her home, as she and her mother lived with Helen but were not given the house upon her death.
While cleaning out her grandmother's home, Tess and Opal stumble upon a suitcase buried within the attic walls and find what appears to be evidence of Helen's secret life and a passionate love affair. With a week to go until the house is sold and an empty agenda, the pair set off on a series of short trips to get to the bottom of Helen's mysterious life.
At each of the game's handful of locations, you walk around as Tess and interact with objects from different time periods ranging primarily from the late '60s to the early 2000s--the time the game is set in--that are sure to be familiar to many American millennials. Occasionally you'll be able to pocket the items to use later, adding a slight puzzle element to what is otherwise a game driven by simple exploration, though these moments are few and far between. Certain items will also prompt you to call for your mom, who will chime in, add context, or mull over your findings with you. All this makes for straight-forward gameplay that can, unfortunately, start to feel a bit dull as the game goes on.
Outside of exploring the game's dusty abodes and dimly lit motels, Tess spends most of her time riding shotgun in her mom's late-'90s sedan. There, she'll have the chance to cycle through mostly static-filled radio stations, chat with her mom, or use her trusty flip phone to text her father or best friend. Yet for a game titled Open Roads, your time spent on the road is extremely brief and only happens a handful of times, which ultimately takes away from the road-trip experience and doesn't help to break up its repetitive gameplay.
This is a recurring issue, as the game in its entirety is too brief to effectively address everything it sets up or fully establish a deep sense of relatability and emotional connection. This is a shame considering the underlying plot is interesting and the game's characters are very endearing. Though Kaitlyn Dever and Keri Russell might be known for their live-action careers, the pair bring a lot of personality to Tess and Opal respectively. Even Helen, who has no speaking parts and appears in the game only through grainy photographs, has a lot of personality. In fact, her vivaciousness is a frequent subject of discussion between Tess and Opal, who both exhibit her more free-spirited behavior, albeit in different ways. This is another aspect of the game I really enjoyed, as it's all too often that mothers are written as protective, worrisome, uptight, and relatively flat--Open Roads avoids falling into that trap.
However, I also think Open Roads pivots a bit too far away from this mother-daughter tension. Sure, Tess and Opal do have their spats and Opal frequently expresses frustration towards some of her late mother's actions, but for a pair going through grief, divorce, major life transitions, and betrayal, there's a lack of drama that turns into a lack of evolution and catharsis. Between its overall brevity and hesitation to dig into messiness--humanness, even--Open Roads puts up a bit of a wall between the player and its story. As a result, I found I liked its characters, but I didn't feel much towards them. While they were relatable enough, I didn't find myself in them.
Sure, not all mother-daughter relationships are contentious or imitate Lady Bird, but in shying away from the emotional, you lose, well, emotions. For example, even with all the big plot points unraveling around them, the most impactful conversation in the game, to me, was the one Tess and Opal have after Tess accidentally leaves her phone at the hotel and demands they go back. As an adult, you're able to see the situation rationally: It makes sense to finish up the drive and grab the phone on the way back--it'll only be a night without it, after all. But Tess's dialogue options are limited and a bit more intense than usual--she needs her phone. And despite being 30 years old, I still felt that desperation.
It's clear that Open Roads wants to have meaningful conversations about generational trauma, the oft-dismissed complexity of mothers, and how humans have different ways of showing love, a fact that can lead to pain when misunderstood, and I wanted to have them too. Yet it doesn't offer the time or vulnerability to dig into these interesting topics. And while some of its story beats are unique, or offer at least a slight variation on ones we've perhaps seen before, all of these stories end somewhat abruptly and without much fanfare or introspection.
Where the game does succeed in storytelling, however, is in its environments. Presumably thanks to the studio's pedigree and history of working on exploration games like Gone Home and Tacoma, you can tell there is an understanding of how to make locations nostalgic without pandering, interesting but not overwhelming, and immersive but not disjointed. Though I'm slowly discovering that a lot of first-person exploration games make me a bit nauseous (definitely a "me" problem here, so I don't fault Open Roads), I really enjoyed walking around the environments the studio created. There were so many objects and pieces of decor that reminded me of the ones I grew up with, and it was interesting to note how these objects--and the memories attached to them--moved me more deeply than a lot of the game's conversations.
At every location, there were little reminders--be it newspaper clippings, a Blockbuster copy of Clueless, or a CorningWare-style casserole dish--of the time that had passed. Sure, this sense of place is aided by some of Tess and Opal's conversations--I particularly loved the one in which Tess admits to her less-computer-inclined mother that her idea of a wild Friday night consists of pizza rolls and The Sims, because same--but a heavy amount of lifting is done by the artistry and detail put into creating these locations.
I also really enjoyed Open Roads' character art, which feels inspired by the animated films '90s kids grew up watching. The style stands out against the more realistic-looking environments and works well with the game's voice acting, though the lack of proper lip-syncing did feel awkward at times. More awkward, however, was the game's sound, which felt almost incomplete. I had expected to hear songs and sounds that would take me back to 2003, yet they were noticeably absent. While I wasn't expecting to hear "Stacy's Mom" or "Hey Ya!" pop on the radio, having multiple radios and TVs that you could interact with that did effectively nothing was a bit of a letdown.
It's unfortunate that "letdown" and "underwhelmed" are words I've used multiple times when talking about Open Roads because there's still so much about the game that works. The overall narrative touches on some meaningful topics, there's a fair amount of intrigue, plenty of well-crafted dialogue, some interesting characters, and a lot of heart. Yet most things fall frustratingly short or are cut off far too early, making the whole experience slightly lackluster. Despite being a game about a mother-daughter road trip, the game doesn't go too far and that relationship is left only slightly altered rather than meaningfully examined and changed.
It only takes a glance to understand Pepper Grinder's inventive gimmick. A small girl named Pepper--a pirate by trade--wields a drill named Grinder that's roughly the size of her entire body. The gear allows her to grind through soft surfaces with ease, complete with the ability to launch out of the surface with a leap. That might have been enough to carry the game by itself, but what's most surprising about Pepper Grinder is its sheer variety. Though it's short, that brevity helps to make the campaign a no-filler thrill ride that continuously pushes the boundaries of its central mechanic.
It turns out Grinder is a pretty versatile tool, even regarding its most basic function. You can burrow through the ground, which immediately feels natural and smooth. At the same time, you can't simply turn on a dime with an instant about-face like a typical platformer--you have to handle turns by curving an arc out of your drilling path. Additionally, when you pop out of the surface of the dirt, you won't gain much distance unless you jump just before breaking through. Those little touches give the core mechanic a sense of finesse, imitating the feeling of a playful dolphin--or at least, a dolphin video game like the classic Ecco.
Once you get the hang of it, drilling through soil and leaping out of the surface in a perfect arc, only to catch another piece of soft ground in the distance and continue your digging, feels thrilling and acrobatic. The drillable surfaces are nicely differentiated from hard environmental pieces, so you quickly learn to read a level and see the path through it, evoking a feeling similar to performing a great run in Tony Hawk. Collectibles like gems are scattered strategically throughout the stages to both subtly guide your eye along the path, while also sometimes setting traps for your greed.
Aside from being a traversal tool, Grinder is also your primary and often only weapon. It's not enough to simply run into most enemies with a spinning drill, though--they often have their own specific approach to defeat them, like beetles with a hard upper carapace who need to be stabbed from the underside by burrowing underground. The main enemies, a breed of vicious narwhal-like creatures with horns on their head, are just as capable of hurting you with a head-on collision as you are of hurting them. None of the regular enemies are terribly tough by themselves, but they introduce new ways of approaching stages and obstacles as you need to get around them or through them to continue on your path.
A platformer with a standout hook like this one probably could have coasted on it, but Pepper Grinder doesn't rest on its laurels. Instead, it consistently introduces new elements to master. These either integrate with your balletic burrowing or provide a change of pace from it. Grabbing a key with your drill will make it turn a lock, and you can use the kinetic energy to power machines. You'll also shoot from cannons, drill holes into the bottoms of ships to make them take on water, carve through skyscrapers to make them collapse as you traverse through, and even pilot a giant mech. What appears at first to be a simple tool gives way to constant delightful little surprises.
A series of boss battles ramp up the difficulty nicely, taking the skills you've learned and putting them to the test. The first is relatively straightforward, as you dodge projectiles by moving through the soil and wait for the opportune moment to attack from the underside, while the second severely limits the amount of soft ground available and challenges you to leap high into the air to do damage. They progress from there, including one tough encounter with another human-like character that has roughly your size and agility. All this leads to a final boss encounter that is one of the most tense and difficult retro platformer bosses I've seen in a long time, which felt satisfying to overcome.
And on top of all this, Pepper Grinder carries itself with a cute, pixel-punk personality. Pepper's diminutive sprite artwork has a charm to it, like how she revs up her trusty drill threateningly when coming face-to-face with a boss, or how she raises her pirate flag to declare victory in an area. The enemies can sometimes be seen doing their own pirate duties before you crash their party. And though story sequences are few and far between, they were just enough to explain what was going on with mimed, dialogue-free action. A short story sequence just before the final boss even made me laugh out loud.
At such a breakneck pace of new ideas, Pepper Grinder doesn't last very long, which is to its credit. I finished the campaign in roughly four hours, which is a relatively short playtime. Every stage also has a time-trial option, and there are still collectibles and cosmetics to unlock like stickers and hairstyles. The most important collectibles are Skull Coins, a limited resource--five per stage--that can be used to unlock special bonus stages in each of the four worlds. These are used to further explore gameplay concepts that had been introduced in the main stages. The first one, for example, takes the cannon mechanic to its logical conclusion with an entire stage built around ping-ponging from cannon to cannon, which felt pleasanlty reminiscent of Donkey Kong Country's famous barrel stages.
Perhaps because of its brevity, I enjoyed every minute, and I appreciate the rare instance of a game that doesn't overstay its welcome. Rather than slog through filler stages to pad its length, Pepper Grinder is bursting with new ideas for exactly as long as it can sustain that momentum. There's something admirable about approaching its length with that level of confidence. I would have loved to play even more, if it could have sustained that pace, but this felt like a conscious choice to let the best ideas shine.
Pepper Grinder is here for a good time, not for a long time. Every piece, from the core drilling mechanic itself to the various ways it manifests with cannons and mechs and more, feels meticulously engineered to teach you a new concept, wring the fun out of it, and then move on to the next. That sense of propulsion makes every moment fun and engaging. It's a great little gem of a game which, like its heroine, may be small in size but makes every bit count.
A lot of people will tell you that Hank Aaron is the greatest to ever play the game of baseball. Bob Kendrick, President of the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum, is one of those people, and it's easy to see why. You only have to look at Hammerin' Hank's stats--755 home runs and 3,771 hits in Major League Baseball--his outstanding consistency across 23 big league seasons, or the fact that he achieved all of this after such humble beginnings. Growing up, Aaron had few opportunities to play organized baseball. In fact, he had few opportunities to even use the right equipment. Instead, a young Henry Aaron would take his mom's broomstick and use it as a makeshift bat to hit bottlecaps--it's no wonder he ended up being so good.
I knew of Hank Aaron's incredible career, but supplemental details like this are part of what makes Storylines such a captivating and enlightening experience. If last year's game was all about introducing this brilliant and groundbreaking new mode, then MLB The Show 24 is more about fine-tuning the existing framework. This isn't an uncommon approach for annual sports games, and while Sony San Diego's latest baseball sim might not seem as fresh or exciting as last year's offering, it still plays an excellent game of baseball while possessing a tangible reverence for the sport's rich history and inherent romanticism. Players are more than just stats and numbers, after all.
This is where Storylines comes in, and it's once again the highlight of the whole package. Like any good TV series, MLB The Show 24 returns with a second season of The Negro Leagues, exploring an era of baseball that has often been overlooked and forgotten. At launch, there are four stories to play through, shining a spotlight on the aforementioned Henry "Hank" Aaron, as well as Josh Gibson, Walter "Buck" Leonard, and Toni Stone, with more set to arrive in forthcoming updates.
Bob Kendrick's charismatic and insightful narration brings these tales to life, aided by slickly produced videos that weave in historical photographs, original artwork, and archival footage to paint a portrait of these players and their profound impact on baseball and American culture. In between these video packages, you'll play through pivotal moments from each player's career, from Aaron's first hit as a member of the Milwaukee Braves to Josh Gibson's decimation of MLB pitching in exhibition games--where he batted a ridiculous .426. Perhaps the most interesting collection of episodes focuses on the career of Toni Stone, a true trailblazer who became the first woman to play for a professional baseball team when she took Hank Aaron's roster spot after he departed the Negro Leagues for the MLB.
Alongside these eye-opening tales, MLB The Show 24 also expands on the Storylines concept by adding a series on legendary New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter. By using a New York subway motif as the backdrop for Jeter's story, the former captain recounts important moments from the first few years of his storied career as you travel along the tracks from 1996 to 2000. Starting with his first steps as an unheralded rookie to achieving legendary status as the Yankees won three consecutive World Series titles, Jeter gives you an insight into his and the team's mindset during this monumental run. There are also three side stories that center on the other members of the Yankees' Core Four: Mariano Rivera, Jorge Posada, and Andy Pettitte. These stories are brief, consisting of a single video package, but completing each additional mission unlocks their player cards for use in Diamond Dynasty.
As a Yankees fan, I enjoyed Jeter's retelling of the era's events, along with being able to recreate moments like his iconic jump-throw and a number of his clutch hits. Admittedly, however, it's not the most interesting collection of stories. This is a team and player that won four championships in five years with little to no adversity, while Jeter himself was relatively drama-free off the field. It doesn't make for the most compelling narrative, but the inclusion of Jeter's Storylines does at least set a precedent for the series where we'll hopefully see more engrossing tales in the future, whether the focal point is on a single Hall of Fame player or an entire team.
Road to the Show, meanwhile, lets you create and play as a woman for the first time. There are specific video packages that differ from those in the male career, with MLB Network analysts embracing the historical significance of a woman being drafted by an MLB team. A separate narrative based around you getting drafted alongside a childhood friend also differentiates the female career from the male side--which lacks any kind of story--while considerations like a private dressing room add an element of authenticity. The majority of cutscenes play out via text message, however, replacing the series' previous narration with a hackneyed alternative.
The only other new addition to Road to the Show is the return of the Draft Combine, which gives you three games to improve your draft ranking by playing well against other prospects. While it's good to see the combine back, it's a fairly superfluous addition for those who simply want to choose which team to play for rather than leaving it up to fate. It also doesn't take into account starting pitchers, dropping your draft stock because you're only able to play in one of the three available games. The inclusion of women is a positive one, but Road to the Show is still in desperate need of an overhaul to its tired loadout system and bland presentation.
Franchise remains mostly the same, aside from one new addition with the potential to completely alter how you engage with the mode. Custom Game Entry Conditions is a setting that lets you simulate games until certain conditions are met, at which point you're able to take control. You can customize these conditions based on how critical the situation is by tinkering with a situation-importance slider that ranges from low to very high.
You're able to pick the earliest inning you're willing to enter games, and can also ensure that you'll always jump into player-highlight moments, such as finishing off a potential no-hitter or extending a batter's hitting streak. With this setting, you might decide you only want to enter games during high-leverage situations in the ninth inning or play from the seventh inning onwards in tight games. This alleviates the grind of a full 162-game season while keeping you invested and making sure you have an impact on games that might mean the difference between making the playoffs or missing out on October baseball. The one side-effect of this addition is that Road to October and its truncated seasons now feel obsolete, but improving Franchise makes this a worthy trade-off.
Diamond Dynasty, the card-collecting and squad-building mode, is also not too dissimilar from last year's game. The implementation of Sets and Seasons has been tweaked, with longer seasons giving you more playing time with season-limited cards. The amount of top-rated cards attainable at the beginning of a season has also been reduced to give you something to build towards.
Cards will now gradually escalate in power over the course of a single season so you won't be rocking a 99-rated team after a single week. These are positive changes in what remains the most approachable of the many card-collecting modes in sports games, such is the ease with which you're able to acquire great players without spending a dime. The plethora of single and multiplayer modes is also a feather in its cap.
MLB The Show 24's on-field action remains stellar. For the first time, new rules like the pitch clock, slightly larger bases, and limited pick-off attempts have been implemented. Impact Plays, a new addition that emphasizes great defense, are also new, reinforcing the impact of spectacular diving catches and difficult throws. Impact Plays are possible anytime you're player-locked, such as in Road to the Show. If there's a possibility for a highlight-reel play, the game will slow down and task you with completing a quick-time event. How you perform here determines how successful the play will be. It feels great each time you're able to rob a batter of a base hit by plucking the ball out of the air moments before it touches the ground or firing a laser beam to first base to beat a runner. I only wish Impact Plays were more frequent and were included as an option when controlling a full team.
The continued absence of an online Franchise mode and the stale nature of Road to the Show are disappointing aspects of this release, but MLB The Show 24 still maintains the series' commendable output with fantastic gameplay and another collection of fascinating stories exploring The Negro Leagues and its players. A journey through the exalted career of Derek Jeter might not be quite as gripping, but it builds on Storyline's established framework and lays down an exciting blueprint for the mode's future. The addition of women in Road to the Show is another positive step, further reinforcing the overarching theme that baseball is for everyone, while the ability to customize how you play Franchise mode makes it a much more palatable proposition for those embarking on a 162-game season. MLB The Show 24 might not swing for the fences, but it's still a great way to spend the looming summer months.
Princess Peach, the prototypical video game damsel in distress, has had limited success with her own solo adventures. On the rare occasion that she's playable, she has typically been a sidekick in a larger adventure, like Super Mario RPG. Though she did land a starring role in Super Princess Peach, the game and its core mechanic—in which her powers were defined by wild mood swings—were a miss. Princess Peach Showtime is the latest attempt to make her own story, with nary a Mario or Luigi in sight, and this time she has come more into her own as an adventurer. More importantly, this solo outing seems primed at introducing new players to a wide variety of game genres. While veteran gamers will likely find the pacing too lethargic, it's nice that Nintendo is making such a clear overture to welcome new players.
And when I say that there's no Mario or Luigi, I mean at all. Nintendo's most iconic characters aren't even present in the intro, when Peach receives an invitation to come see the Sparkle Theater in a land occupied by Theets, little yellow creatures with bulbous noses. Upon arrival, the theater is taken over by a sorceress named Grape and her Sour Bunch goons, who kick out Peach's loyal Toad companions, misplacing her crown in the process, and proceed to corrupt all the plays. Peach finds a guardian of the playhouse, a fairy named Stella, who accompanies peach by taking the form of a ribbon in her hair. (When Peach puts her hair up into a ponytail, you know it's getting serious.) Stella is Peach's default weapon, letting you use a whip-like motion to magically change objects and enemies in the environment, and it's also the enabler for Peach's various transformations.
When Peach steps into a corrupted play, she finds a spark that lets her take on the role of its hero. These are broad archetypes like Swordfighter, Cowgirl, and Detective, and the 10 costume types allow for a broad range of different gameplay types. Once you've found your costumes in the first version of a stage, future stages of that type will start you with it already equipped. Each floor has four plays to conquer, after which you'll fight a boss and gain access to the next floor. It's all very easily understandable and flows nicely.
Since every stage is a sidescroller, I found that the plays felt most natural and familiar when they hewed closest to familiar sidescrolling action game mechanics. But even within those, there was some variety at play. The Swordfighter plays are modeled after a very traditional action game, light parry system included. The Cowgirl, on the other hand, is focused more on ranged attacks with your lasso, and the Kung-Fu stages included some lightly rhythmic fighting game mechanics. My personal favorite was Mighty Peach, a cute take on the henshin hero genre like Ultraman, in which Peach gets a robotic-looking power suit that she uses to fly through the air, take out invading UFOs, and lift buses over her head to throw at enemies or use as makeshift bridges. Those stages played almost like a shoot-em-up, with a unique focus on ricocheting ships and aliens into each other.
Some stages are less combat-focused but still handle like simplified platformers. The Ninja stages are centered on stealth, letting you hold up set dressing to blend in with the grass, or duck underwater and breathe through a reed while sneaking up on enemies. The Dashing Thief is focused mostly on a grappling hook as you run across rooftops. Other stages stray further from the platformer formula, like the Figure Skater stages that let you glide gracefully across the ice as you hit icon-coded stunt points to grab collectibles and ultimately defeat the evil Sour Bunch figure skater rival. The Mermaid stages take place almost entirely underwater and consist mostly of directing your siren singing voice--either to direct a group of fish where to go for solving puzzles, Pikmin-style, or to collect special singing-note fish to compose a song. They're all variations on a theme to some extent, but they have enough slight differences to act as a rudimentary introduction to disparate game genres.
Then there are the costumes that stray furthest from traditional platforming mechanics, to mixed results. The Patissiere (pastry chef) stages are modeled after timing-based cooking games, as you bake batches of cookies or carefully apply frosting to cakes. These are a nice change of pace that really show the flexibility of the concept. The same can't be said for the Detective stages, which are the weakest of the bunch. These consist almost entirely of walking around, talking to Theets, and then holding a button to point out an inconsistency with some object in the relatively small room. Even keeping in mind that these mysteries are aimed at younger children, the pace of these segments is particularly dull. From your movement speed to tracking something with your magnifying glass to holding the button to call out an inconsistency, everything feels just a little slower than it should be.
That said, the Detective stages, like all of the stages, carry an excellent eye for set design. Princess Peach Showtime works on two levels, as you have to both visually understand the goals and mechanics of the stage itself, while also taking notice that these are ultimately supposed to be stage plays. Many of the props and backgrounds are designed to look like stagecraft, and moving parts like Mighty Peach's alien enemies or your Cowgirl's trusty steed are made to look like puppetry, with seams and barely-visible strings. It's a lovely, subtle touch that really sells the worldbuilding of the Sparkle Theater. The boss designs are equally inventive, as they're built to look like pieces of behind-the-scenes stage pieces that have been cursed into fearsome beasts, like a massive snake made out lighting rigging to make up its segmented body.
As you proceed through each stage, you'll find coins, as well as sparks that are ultimately used to gate access to each boss. These are plentiful enough that I never had to backtrack for more, which is a welcome change from other recent Nintendo games with similar gating structures. Your coins, meanwhile, can be used to purchase additional dress designs for Peach and ribbon colors for Stella. This isn't very impactful, given that most of your time is spent in plays where Peach will be changed into her stage-appropriate costume, but it's nice to see your customized Peach when she's exploring the main floors of the theater at least. As you progress, you'll also unlock special stages to rescue Sparklas, the Theet embodiment of each of the play's characters, as well as elements like timed challenge stages. These serve as the culmination of the individual stories, and while they still aren't very difficult, they are among the most challenging parts of the game. That should be enough to give the target audience the sense of a difficulty ramp. Plus, all of these collectibles means there's plenty to do for completionists, but the gating isn't so aggressive that it's likely to frustrate players--especially the younger players who seem to be the target.
And just as Mario games have never been known for their strong stories, Princess Peach doesn't escape that issue in her own solo outing. Grape is a typical evil cackling villain with a barely-stated plan or motivations. We never even get a clear idea of whether she intended to attack the theater while Peach was there, or if that was happenstance. This is too bad because the final confrontation is a gameplay highlight, ending on a high note that would be even better if we'd been given a more compelling villain to defeat. If anything, the stories in the individual plays themselves are often more interesting, thanks in part to some great, so-goofy-it's-fun writing and animation work.
Princess Peach Showtime is a friendly, inviting game that's made to be easy to digest. Some of the genres work better than others in this format, but none of them are too tricky or off-putting, and most of it will come down to personal taste. None of these stages are fleshed out enough to support their own game, but they're an invitation for novice gamers to explore a bunch of different game types, with a charming (and apparently polymath) princess offering her gloved hand to welcome them in.
If someone tells me a game takes several hours to "get good," my immediate feeling is that I will never play that game. Who has hours to waste waiting for the good part of anything when there are so many other games to play? But my opinion of Rise of the Ronin changed drastically over the course of my 50 hours of playtime--in the first five or 10 hours, I didn't really like it. By the end, I was planning to dive back in to clear out side quests and replay key moments to see how the story might change. It's a game that takes its time getting good, but once it finds its footing in samurai-sword duels and character-focused missions, your investment pays off.
The thing that turned the tide for me is the way Rise of the Ronin focuses on telling small, character-driven stories that weave together into a large, history-shaping narrative. The entire game is built on its "Bond" system, where doing side quests big and small builds your relationships with everyone, from the different provinces of Ronin's massive open-world Japan, to the many characters you meet throughout the course of the game.
Though the Bond system isn't particularly different from building up faction reputation, liberating map segments, or growing relationship stats with characters like you might see in other games, the focus on investing in all those things and people is illustrative of Team Ninja's approach to the entire game. Your personal connection to everything in Rise of the Ronin is what makes it work, and the reason it's worth it to power through its learning curve and less remarkable opening hours.
Rise of the Ronin puts you into the role of a samurai trained alongside another warrior from childhood to be an unstoppable, sword-wielding fighting duo for a group called the Veiled Edge. It's the 1860s and Japan is opening itself to foreign powers, including the United States and England, creating political strife. On a mission to assassinate a powerful American, your "blade twin" sacrifices themselves so you can escape. Soon after, the rest of the Veiled Edge is wiped out for rebelling against Japan's government, the shogunate. You set out alone, a ronin warrior without a clan, but soon discover your blade twin is rumored to have survived. What ensues is a lot of politics, intrigue, and adventure.
With no clan to serve, you essentially become a sword for hire and lots of people want your help, which you exchange for leads in finding your blade twin. The main part of Rise of the Ronin's gameplay is stealthily sneaking up on enemies to assassinate them, and fighting duels. Combat has a similar fast-paced feel to games like Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice and Ghost of Tsushima, with an emphasis on parrying enemies at the right moment and using different fighting styles to counter your opponents. Fights are frenetic, but for that early portion, they're also frustrating thanks to a combination of weird controls and enemies who will often deploy intense, overwhelming force against you.
You and every fighter you come across have both a health bar and a Ki gauge, which is akin to a stamina meter. Ki powers every blow, dodge, and block, and if you run out of Ki and are struck while blocking, you'll be dazed for a few seconds, opening you up to more punishment. Your goal in every fight--especially with tougher opponents--is to strike blows while parrying their attacks, breaking their rhythm and whittling down their Ki to stagger them. When staggered, most normal enemies can be executed, while tougher foes and bosses take a big hit, then get their Ki back to go another round. It sounds pretty standard, especially with the ubiquity of Souls-likes and similar styles of swordplay focused on parrying, stamina, and breaking an enemy's posture. Rise of the Ronin has its own take on the approach, though, and it took me a while to build up the skill to actually enjoy it.
The main two elements of sword fights are Martial attacks, which are powerful special moves, and Countersparks, which are flowery parry moves. Like Sekiro and its posture system, your main goal in Rise of the Ronin is to parry enemy blows until you can stagger them. But Countersparks are kind of weird, especially at first. They're not just straight parries; they're fast, short-range attacks with their own forward momentum. Missing the timing on a parry usually means you still hit the opponent and the opponent hits you, but there are plenty of times when a Counterspark can move you past the enemy altogether. It creates a strange flow to your fight movements that takes a lot of getting used to.
Rise of the Ronin borrows a bit from Souls-like combat in that enemies will sometimes power through your strikes with their own attack animations, so you need to recognize when to attack and when to hold back. Yet Ronin wants fights to be fast and aggressive, so if you Counterspark certain attacks, you'll knock the enemy off-balance and open up a brief counter-strike opportunity. This also creates an unusual rhythm--you can Counterspark most of a combo chain from an enemy to no benefit, because the only attack that truly matters for parrying is the last or strongest in the chain. That means your strategy should actually be to safely block your way through a series of attacks, and Counterspark only the final move.
That requirement makes Countersparks unintuitive because the urge to parry has to be strategically resisted. Sometimes you can skillfully parry a bunch of moves in a row and wind up being punished for it anyway; other times, you may be rewarded just for hammering the button against a tough opponent. Mostly, though, you're spending the first few battles against any tough enemy trying to figure out when the correct time to parry is and getting demolished by quick, relentless strikes in the meantime. It's not a bad parry system--I came to enjoy Rise of the Ronin's approach quite a bit once I understood how it worked and could start to read its enemies and their attacks--but the extra motion and timing are at odds with similar games, so you'll have to unlearn a few things to acclimate yourself.
Enemy Martial attacks are marked by a red glow that indicates you can't just block them like you can with normal strikes. That means you have to avoid them with a well-timed dodge, or knock them down with a perfectly timed Counterspark for big Ki damage. You have Martial attacks of your own that are great as counterattacks when you successfully knock an enemy off-balance, but they're not unblockable like enemy ones are and cost extra Ki to execute.
Martial attacks are cool additions to your repertoire, but in enemy hands, they add to the learning curve and pile on some frustration in the early game, as fighting in Rise of the Ronin is usually very fast. You'll often get hit with a series of attacks you have to block your way through, taking a ton of damage to your Ki, only to get blasted by a devastating Martial attack that cuts your defenses and hurts you even more. Then you get staggered, leaving you open to further walloping, or knocked off your feet and subject to a standing-up animation that lasts just long enough for the enemy to lay into you again with no defenses. One screw-up can lead to a beatdown that's tough to recover from.
Especially early on, this combat pacing is annoyingly brutal--one particular early boss fight had a massive difficulty spike that held me up for a couple hours. For a game that easily lasts more than 50 hours and has a similar fight at the end of every single mission, being stuck on the same boss for that long was grueling. Fortunately, Rise of the Ronin lets you change the difficulty whenever you want, so you can drop to its easier mode if a fight is giving you trouble, then increase the challenge once you're over the hump.
It was only later that I started to appreciate the combat system's combination of elements. That includes the timing of Countersparks, as well as things like the ability to change your fighting style on the fly once you've learned new ones. When you approach an enemy, an icon will appear next to their name that indicates both how tough a fight they'll be and whether their fighting style is strong or weak to your own. You can have two main weapons equipped at any time--which include katanas, odachis, European-style sabers and greatswords, and spears--and three styles for each one, which can be quickly swapped to deal with just about any opponent. Picking the right style to deal with an enemy greatly enhances the effectiveness of your Counterspark, so once I got the hang of parrying and using the right styles and weapons for certain enemies, battles started to click, becoming intense, hard-fought duels that also made me feel like a legendary swordsman.
Against the toughest of enemies, it also pays to make use of your allies. You'll meander through the open world alone, but just about every major story mission or side quest is an instanced level where you have one or two computer-controlled allies backing you up, playing into the Twin Blade concept. You can play cooperatively with other humans in the place of AI buddies, but when you play alone, you're able to swap between characters on the fly. The AI characters all have their own styles and moves that you can learn and take advantage of, but the best part is the way they enable you to overwhelm an enemy, quickly swapping around to get behind their guard and take advantage of their divided attention. It's another aspect that takes a while to get good at using, but which sets apart Rise of the Ronin's combat and makes it intense and chaotic in a good way--most of the time.
What makes fighting a bit wonky is Rise of the Ronin's control scheme, which is convoluted and unintuitive. Blocking attacks is done by holding the left bumper, but parrying is done with the triangle button. The separation of your defensive moves requires specific training for your brain: Hold this button for this kind of attack, tap this other button for another kind, but mix the two together as well. It's enough to jumble you up until you've spent time getting used to this specific approach.
The same is true of the swapping controls, which require various bumper holds combined with control stick movements or d-pad presses. Changing between loadout items, like healing pills and status-removing salves, is done while holding the left bumper, and so is swapping between characters. Holding the right bumper, on the other hand, lets you change your main weapons, your sub-weapons (like pistols, bows, and rifles), and your fighting styles. Again, it's just a lot of really specific, esoteric controls to hold in your mind at once, and tough to mentally page through while a guy with a sword is slicing away at your face. Eventually all these controls became natural for me--but it took a while to get there.
The blade twin story isn't a particularly compelling one, and while it's the framing device that's supposed to drive your character, it doesn't get a lot of screen time. But Rise of the Ronin picks up quite a bit as your investigation pushes you to start making friends with various people, who either support the stability of the shogunate or think the country needs a new government. As time goes on, those different people develop into separate factions that will require your help, and which you can choose to aid.
However, it all leads to an open-world setup that's somewhat unremarkable. A lot of the open-world content in Rise of the Ronin feels set to the standard of 2010s-era games, with some repetitive activities that will pop up randomly in front of you, some collectibles to chase down, and some side quests to complete that tend to end up with you killing some random baddies.
The more minor activities you do and collectibles you find in each of the small provinces in an area, the higher your bond with that location, which unlocks various minor bonuses. Later, completing these same activities will increase or decrease a faction's hold on that location, which can have a bearing on story missions as you take them on--although that exact effect is somewhat opaque, especially because you change allegiances multiple times through the course of the story. Generally, though, the open-world activities of Rise of the Ronin are somewhat uninspired. It's not particularly engaging to clear out yet another group of five bandits, two of which are mini-boss-like "formidable opponents," to lower a faction's hold on a province, but Rise of the Ronin will give you a ton of these activities to knock down, alongside small side missions and random activities like muggings. It's a lot of stuff that seems like filler content in a game that's already brimming with things to do.
Story missions and side quests are more interesting and involved, although they also get repetitive. Most of these put you into a level where you infiltrate a location, sneak around assassinating rank-and-file soldiers, get seen and fight some guys, and then defeat a boss. These missions suffer in part because Rise of the Ronin's stealth is a bit undercooked. It can be unreliable, with enemies sometimes spotting you from far off with little issue, and other times being totally oblivious as you fight pitched, protracted battles with their friends 10 feet behind them.
Missions always end with excellent, challenging boss fights, though, and once you get good at Rise of the Ronin's dueling system, every fight becomes a combat puzzle mixing twitch-reactions and strategic responses that continually make them exciting. Stealth breaks up the fighting just enough to help mission pacing, while rewarding you for analyzing the environment and planning your approach, even if it'll sometimes annoy you by failing at key moments. Stealth is more a nice-to-have addition than essential to the formula.
The best of Rise of the Ronin's levels are its Bond missions. You'll meet a ton of samurai and join many of them in missions as allies, creating ongoing relationships. You can then enhance your friendship with those folks by completing side missions that flesh out their stories and engaging in conversations or giving them gifts. Building stronger Bonds unlocks new fighting styles as well as passive bonuses when you bring them on missions, but the most interesting part is the way each character's individual stories expand across missions and add to the overall narrative. The characters are all well-drawn, dealing with their own principles and motivations, and their stories are worth experiencing on their own.
Having personal ties to all these characters makes the overall story a lot deeper. Rise of the Ronin tells a fictionalized version of the historical end of the shogunate and the samurai lifestyle in the 1860s, with the characters and events you're engaged with eventually pushing Japan toward civil war, and your own principles and relationships causing you to switch sides numerous times. That means a character you brought as an ally on one mission might be a boss you have to face down in another, and your connection to all Rise of the Ronin's characters does a lot to raise the stakes and make the entire narrative feel personally important.
So while Rise of the Ronin has some elements that can frustrate or require some investment to make sense of, and weaker elements like some open-world design that comes off as dated or some repetition in level design, it does a great job of getting you invested in what's going on and the people involved. Bond missions in particular are a standout, but a mix of personal stakes and large-scale politics make the historical story compelling all the way through. The longer you play Rise of the Ronin, the more characters you meet and spend time with, and the more you learn about its combat and its world, the better it becomes.
It's not without some flaws, but I finished Rise of the Ronin with much more left to do, and even after 50 hours, I want to head back in to see what I'd missed and attempt to change history. The parts of the game that work more than balance out its weaker elements. And while it took a while to find the rhythm of Rise of the Ronin's combat, its speed, complexity, and intensity make for some phenomenal fights that always feel great to win. Rise of the Ronin is a game that might take a bit to get good, but the commitment is worth it.
Dragon's Dogma 2 doesn't have a traditional fast-travel system. For most open-world games, this would be a death sentence--an affront to the player's valuable time. Yet somehow, Capcom has turned the absence of this quality-of-life feature into a resounding strength. It's the game's tremendous sense of adventure and discovery that accomplishes this. Every time you leave the relative safety of a village or city, there's no telling what will happen; you just know it has the potential to be spellbinding and will be well worth your time.
As a sequel, Dragon's Dogma 2 is an extension of everything the first game achieved 12 years ago. It's an enchanting open-world RPG with varied, exciting combat and a player-created companion system that's still unlike anything else. It doesn't do much beyond what the original did, but advancements in technology have enhanced its anomalous strengths, breathing new life into its massive open world and the ways in which you and everything around you can interact with it. New ideas and innovation might not be at the forefront, but the things it does are still relatively distinct.
After a brief but intriguing prologue, your adventure begins in the country of Vermund, a land of lush green forests, alpine peaks, and the flowing currents of its many winding rivers. The royalty and noblemen of Vermund reside behind the fortified walls of its capital city, and it's from this bustling location that you can board an oxcart to a small village in the north or a checkpoint city in the west. The latter sits on the border with Battahl, an arid land, home to the humanoid cat-like beastren, where gondolas provide an occasional route over the craggy canyons below. Beyond traveling via oxcart or climbing aboard one of these sky lifts, you're left to explore this sprawling world on foot, traversing dense forests blanketed by canopies that blot out the sun, elven ruins carved into the sides of mountains, and shifting sands bathed in harsh sunlight and circled by deadly harpies.
There is a method of instant fast travel available, but it works in much the same way as it did in the first game. You can exhaust a costly resource known as Ferrystones to travel to any Portcrystal in the world, but these fast-travel points are few and far between--either as a permanent fixture or an item you can pick up and place anywhere you desire. You'll use them sparingly and spend the vast majority of your time covering large swathes of land on your own two feet. Considering the 12-year gap between the original game and its sequel, this approach to fast travel and seamless exploration feels like an even bolder decision now than it did in 2012. The open-world genre has become more codified in the interim, yet Dragon's Dogma 2 makes a concerted effort to ensure that the journey is just as important as the destination.
This is a game defined as much by the trek through an undulating gorge as it is the battle you encounter when you reach the bottom. The quests you embark on are diverse, tasking you with venturing off to rescue a boy who's been taken by a pack of wolves or accompanying an elf on their rite of passage. These quests are sometimes generic but the way they play out is anything but. You're never just engaging with one singular objective at a time; Dragon's Dogma 2 is filled to the brim with emergent moments that consistently dazzle and surprise. I could regale you with myriad tales from my 40-hour adventure without even mentioning an actual scripted questline. Defined objectives might give you the impetus to head in a particular direction, but this then unravels a thread of distinct events that occur naturally, challenging you with enormous beasts to topple or piquing your curiosity with a cave tucked away to the side of the main pathway.
I once embarked on a lengthy journey that began with the usual ambushes from resourceful goblins and roadside bandits. I thought a first encounter with the three-headed, magic-wielding chimera would be the most noteworthy part of this venture, only for a monstrous griffin to swoop down and introduce an entirely new set of problems. After hacking at the chimera's wailing goat head until it eventually collapsed in defeat, I focused all of my attention on the fearsome griffin. The immense force of this mighty creature made the nearby foliage rustle and shake every time it reared back and flapped its wings, but I managed to clamber on top of the beast and dig my sword into the back of its skull before it launched into the air and sent me spiraling to the floor.
After a time, the griffin made its escape, retreating back to the skies above, so I spent the night camping to recuperate my depleted health bar. I set out again in the morning, only to be interrupted by the same griffin, presumably with a newly formed vendetta against me. This time, after much hardship, I defeated the mythical creature before it could flee again, yet my journey was far from over. A pair of colossi sprang an unpredictable attack in the tight confines between two rocky outcrops, while the next night brought about a horde of undead skeletons whose glowing blue eyes pierced the suffocating darkness.
[Dragon's Dogma 2 is] an enchanting open-world RPG with varied, exciting combat and a player-created companion system that's still unlike anything else
None of these encounters related to one another or pertained to the quest I initially set out on, but that's the magic of Dragon's Dogma 2's open world. You're constantly pulled in numerous directions at once and it's up to you to decide which avenues to pursue. It might be a quest given to you by a villager in need, an enticing structure looming on the horizon, or a locked gate and the potential to find an alternative way inside. Backtracking is fairly common, but no one journey is exactly the same as another, so it never feels like a chore when you're retreading familiar ground.
Of course, none of this would work nearly as well if the game's other elements weren't up to snuff. Fortunately, combat is excellent across the board, providing you with a variety of unique vocations to choose from. These classes range from the sword and shield-wielding Fighter and long-range Archer, to new additions like the Mystic Spearhand--a melee/magic combo build--and the jack-of-all-trades Warfarer. It's entirely viable to pick a vocation and play the entire game as that class, but you're also rewarded for experimenting. Each vocation has special Augmentations to unlock which grant passive buffs that you can apply regardless of what class you're currently using. This means you can make a Mage sturdier, or give a Warrior greater stamina usually reserved for the Thief.
Whichever vocation you choose, there's a fantastic sense of impact behind your attacks. Axes and greatswords meet flesh with a glorious crunch--the game slowing down to let you bask in your most impactful strikes--while enemies burst into flames and tumble off cliffsides behind the power of a Sorcerer's stave. There's a hint of Devil May Cry to its most stylish and over-the-top moves, and hacking away at colossal beasts with slow but purposeful blows can't help but bring to mind the protracted battles of Monster Hunter.
Even when you're swirling through the air and conjuring piercing ice shards, the combat still feels grounded thanks to the world reacting realistically to everything that occurs within it. When I toppled a colossus and it stumbled towards a small chasm, it didn't just fall down the gap, but grabbed onto the other side, creating a desperate, makeshift bridge. Only after hacking at its fingers did it lose its grip and tumble to its demise. The camera sometimes has trouble keeping up with all of this explosive action, usually because a mage has filled the screen with fire or ice. In that sense, it's a somewhat acceptable trade-off. What's not quite as forgivable is when the camera becomes unwieldy in tight interiors or when you're clinging to the back of a terrifying beast, but at least these instances aren't too frequent and are only a minor inconvenience when you consider the ensuing thrills of Dragon's Dogma 2's fantastic combat.
In terms of story, you're once again cast as the Arisen, repeating a cycle that has occurred for generations. A fearsome dragon rules over the land and chooses you as a worthy challenger to its reign by plucking out your still-beating heart and consuming it. Your ultimate goal is to take up arms and slay the dragon, but before that can happen you need to build up your strength and contend with the disparate politics of both Vermund and Battahl. In Vermund, the Arisen is revered as a sovereign and champion of the people, tasked with protecting the land from the ominous shadow of the dragon. An imposter sits on your throne, however: a False Arisen, put in place by a queen who doesn't want to lose her power. In attempting to claim what's rightfully yours, you'll gradually unravel a mystery that threatens to impact the fate of the whole world.
It's a decent tale that propels your adventure forward, although it's light on characterization, which contributes to a persistent feeling of detachment. This makes it difficult to care about the overarching narrative, aside from an interest in unraveling the core mystery. The awe-inspiring scale of its later moments somewhat makes up for its shortcomings, while exploring the differences between the cultures of Vermund and Battahl is also compelling. The beastren nation casts the Arisen as an outsider, fearful as they are of your entourage of pawns and the misfortune they portend.
Much like the first game, these user-created companions are the game's most exceptional feature. Up to three pawns can join you on your journey, though one is a permanent fixture and your own creation. You can set their vocation and change it as you see fit, equipping skills and upgrades for them just as you would your own character. The other two members of your party are hirelings you can recruit and replace on a whim and are typically created by other players. Choosing which pawns to hire primarily comes down to a matter of party composition. Whether they're leading from the front, imbuing your weapon with magic, or blanketing the battlefield in meteors, it's hard not to love the impact they have on combat. But there's also more to them than simply being hired guns.
The time a pawn spends with other players is retained in their memory. They might recall a treasure chest they opened in another Arisen's world and then lead you to it, and they do the same when it comes to navigating quests as well. If you prioritize an objective and one of your pawns has completed it before, they'll offer to lead you to wherever it is you need to go. Rather than being weighed down by having to constantly revisit the map, you can let a pawn naturally guide you, creating an ebb and flow to your adventure that removes the need for menu screens and waypoints. They can sometimes lose their way when you're interrupted by combat, but I found that hitting the "Go" command would reset them back on the right path.
Pawns perform a similar function after defeating a certain number of a particular enemy type, too. If a pawn has sufficient experience beating, say, an ogre, they'll relay pertinent information on weak points and the nature of their attacks. You can also find and then equip different specializations for your pawn, maybe granting them the ability to translate Elvish, or forage for materials so you don't have to bother. They can still be overly loquacious at times, expressing child-like wonder at the world with a barrage of Ye Olde English dialogue. Their remarks are nowhere near as repetitive as before, though, and they're much more personable this time around, chatting among themselves about other players they've traveled with and creating a palpable sense of teamwork and camaraderie.
The most noticeable misstep derives from Dragon's Dogma 2's performance on PC. My current rig exceeds the recommended specifications (aside from the CPU), and the game generally runs at around 60fps using the game's "High" preset. Sometimes it dips into the 40s and drops even lower inside villages and cities, but it's certainly playable, if a little unstable. The problem is that this performance is consistent across all visual settings, which leads me to believe it's a matter of poor optimization. I could've used the performance bump from lowering shadow quality and the like, but doing so has no effect. Ideally, this will be rectified with a day-one patch and driver updates, but it's not ideal at the time of writing.
Even so, these performance issues did little to deter my love for this game. It's not often that a cult classic gets the green light for a sequel, especially 12 years after the original game was released. Capcom hasn't tried to make Dragon's Dogma 2 more palatable to potentially attract a wider audience, either. It stuck to the first game's core values and expanded upon them to create a bigger and better game that consistently delights in its approach to seamless exploration and the thrill of adventure. This means it feels very familiar in a lot of ways, but it's a game for those who fell in love with the original, despite its flaws, and will hopefully find an entirely new audience who perhaps never gave the first game a chance. Even after 40 hours, my heart continues to grow fonder for this special game. It's an exceptional achievement that's quite unlike anything else, and I wouldn't hesitate to place it amongst the pantheon of Capcom's very best.
When I think of the survival-horror genre’s best games, I often wonder if they were made better by their frequently unwieldy combat mechanics. The inability to reliably defend yourself heightened the terror in anti-power fantasies like Silent Hill, and the awkwardness of taking on the undead in Resident Evil became core to its tension. With that in mind, could a modern horror game benefit from having similarly janky self-defense systems? Alone in the Dark, the 2024 reboot project from THQ Nordic and Pieces Interactive, emphatically resolves this question for me; as it turns out, the answer is no--it's certainly worse off.
Alone in the Dark centers on characters and a haunted house all named the same as they were in the original 1992 game, but it mostly ditches that game's original story and old-school adventure game leanings in favor of a third-person, over-the-shoulder horror experience in line with modern counterparts. The game's writing pedigree flaunts Soma and Amnesia: The Dark Descent's Mikael Hedberg, and the story even plays out like an Amnesia game at times, to its credit. Much of what it does well is also derivative, but a larger issue is that it can’t do these aspects of the game well consistently. And all the while its worst parts are ceaselessly unenjoyable.
Chief among the blemishes is the aforementioned shoddy combat. There are three guns in total, and though wielding them feels cumbersome in the way a horror game wants to, so much else about dispatching monsters in the Derceto mansion’s hallways and bedrooms is a chore. Many enemies feel uniform in their behaviors and are often comically unaware or incapable of reaching you due to getting stuck on geometry or even each other when they show up in groups.
Even the few that do behave differently, like a monster that lurks on all fours and pounces or flying bug-like creatures that swarm down onto you, are so easily killed off that I quickly felt like the game might've been more enjoyable if there weren't any combat at all.
Melee combat feels worse than gunplay, with a swinging mechanic that behaves more like a directionless flail. I found that for best results I had to button-mash the melee weapon and just hope that I took down the enemy I was targeting before they got to me first, and I wasn't always successful.
But neither guns nor melee can outdo the confounding use of throwable weapons. Scattered around environments are bottles and Molotovs that can be thrown at the many monsters in your path. But you can't add them to your inventory: You have to throw them from where you find them, and the game's way of telling you this is to prompt you to pick one up (RT/R2) and watch as your character immediately tosses it without a care. That teaches you that the next time you want to use one, you should instead hold the button down, thereby allowing yourself to aim the throw. But you still aren't meant to actually move with the object in your hand, and if you try, the character will slowly walk in the direction you point, all while the throwing arc still sits on your screen. It's easily one of the most undercooked combat mechanics I can recall in a horror game.
It's also odd and distracting how the first shot of any round of gunfire suffers an unmissable audio delay of a second or two. Whenever I'd fire a gun, the enemy would react to the damage, and a moment later, I'd hear the gunshot. It was always the first shot and never any subsequent shots in a series of them. It didn't break the game but it was jarring for all 15 hours I played. I should mention that this occurred on Xbox for me, but not for a colleague playing on PC, though they did report other issues such as game crashes.
Alone in the Dark also features the other gameplay tentpole of the genre, as the elaborate home it takes place in is littered with puzzles. This is actually an area where the game sometimes shines, but not consistently. Some early puzzles in the mansion-turned-rest-home are fun to piece together and offer a sense of reward not just for advancing the story, but for letting you piece it together and feel like an investigator, like one of the two playable characters is.
I enjoyed exploring the mansion and opening up new avenues through which to solve its roundabout puzzles, and it was great to mix in a few otherworldly sections that pulled me out of Derceto and into various nightmarishly twisted memories. The transitions between the mansion and these other places were mostly done smoothly and caught me by surprise, albeit not without an occasional stutter, but I never found this as distracting as the gunfire audio delay.
But other puzzles were obnoxiously obtuse, with solutions that didn't feel like they were available in the game's context clues. Many of these revolve around determining safe codes or piecing broken objects back together. In one example, I had to infer a three-digit code from a letter I'd found, and the eventual solution didn't feel logically telegraphed. Alone in the Dark is sometimes more of a headache than it needs to be.
Thankfully, the doom jazz soundtrack is a nice cure for what ails you. I loved the game's atmosphere, strongly aided by the great music and good performances by Jodie Comer (Killing Eve) and David Harbour (Stranger Things). Ultimately, however, I never felt like the familiar faces from Hollywood raised the game's quality level to a degree that justifies their inclusion beyond the marketability of star power. They aren't bad in their roles by any means, but I didn't feel like they brought an element to the game that couldn't have been granted by other talented folks, making their involvement feel like simple stunt casting.
You can choose either character--Comer's Emily Hartwood or Harbour's Detective Carnby--and play the full campaign as either. For large swaths of the story, these campaigns are the same, but they each involve gameplay and story moments unique to them, like puzzle sections and some hauntings unique to each of their backstories, along with a true ending for players who finish both versions. These alternate pathways feel like a fun added wrinkle to the full story, but the allure of playing the game a second time is dampened by its issues. I liked the game's story for the most part, but I did witness a jarring sequence near the end where it so plainly and brazenly pulls a plot detail from another major horror game that I found it hard to imagine how it got through editing. You can't just repeat another game's twist, can you? Alone in the Dark suggests you can.
I found that to be such a perplexing choice, given how much else Hedberg has done well in the horror world and even does well here. Whenever the combat bored me or the puzzles left me totally stumped, I persevered, in part, because I wanted to see how the story shook out.
Led by the game's mysterious Dark Man, an entity resembling a Pharaoh, Alone in the Dark mixes in the same kind of ancient history element that the Amnesia series has done so well. It initially feels so out-of-place that it actually serves the game better in the end. You think you're getting a period-piece haunted house story, and suddenly the game is making nods to much greater supernatural oddities and blending reality and fiction in ways that make it hard to trust anything you're seeing. It makes the world of Alone in the Dark feel more uncertain, and thus, less safe. Save for the story beat that feels too close to another game's big moment, I found the story to be Alone in the Dark's best, most consistent quality.
With its reality-bending story, parade of puzzles, and unwieldy combat, Alone in the Dark is, in some ways, more faithful to some turn-of-the-century horror games than their own revitalized modern remakes. I enjoyed the game's story, setting, and abundant lore, and I felt smart when I'd overcome some of its puzzles. But others proved so obtuse as to be frustrating, and nothing about the combat even climbs to a level I'd call serviceable--it's consistently poor. This isn't Alone in the Dark's first revival attempt, and it's probably not its last, but it isn't the one that will put the series' name in the same breath as the all-time greats it originally helped inspire.
There are few gaming experiences more engrossing, engaging, and satisfying than a quality strategy-RPG. They offer the joy of building up a little ragtag army, bit by bit, into a gang of storied warriors with precision-specialized skills; the tension of seeing what sort of wrenches the next combat stage will throw into the mix; the utter thrill of eking out a victory with a wild strategy--or having an army that works so well together that they lay waste to all before them. Unicorn Overlord, the latest collaboration between developer Vanillaware and publisher Atlus, seeks its place among strategy-RPG royals--and, despite a few small missteps, lays claim to an honorable spot among its peers.
In its narrative, Prince Alain was spirited off to a faraway island a decade ago as his mother, the queen, was deposed from her throne by the wicked tyrant General Valmore and the Zenoiran Empire. Now, the Empire has all but conquered the continent of Fevrith, and an older Alain sets out to reclaim his throne and liberate the populace from their oppressors, all while bolstering the ranks of his Resistance army. But a mystery lies at the heart of everything: How did the Zenoiran Empire conquer all of the kingdoms so easily? Is there a much darker power at play?
The visuals in Unicorn Overlord dazzle right from the opening cutscene, with Vanillaware's well-loved 2D art bringing a detailed fantasy realm to life. There are a great many characters and environments throughout so there's plenty of variety to the eye candy--but even if that hadn't been the case, it would be hard to draw your eyes away from the attractive character designs, exquisite backgrounds, and weighty battle animations that are there. Occasionally, things can get a bit cluttered and confusing--some parts of the UI are messy to navigate--but after a while, it becomes no big deal.
You can't just stare at the pretty visuals, however--not while evil is afoot. Fortunately, if you want to take your time with seeing all the game's sights, you can go straight through the crucial story battles, or stop and do all manner of side-questing. Taking the time to explore and help those in need is a good idea, too: When you begin Unicorn Overlord, Prince Alain's army consists of a handful of close companions, and it feels like the entire world is against you. Only through fighting small skirmishes, liberating towns, forts, and cities from their Zenovian captors can you gradually reclaim territory. Many of these places are decimated from years of war and neglect--but the prince can bring the materials needed to repair the damage, often with a bit of careful overworld exploration. As you do this, your Honors and Renown grow, and you can recruit and hire more soldiers for your army--as well as expand the number and capacity of your current units. It's a fun gameplay loop that encourages you to explore and rebuild.
But ultimately, games in this genre live and die by how fun the actual strategy and combat is, and Unicorn Overlord passes this test with flying colors. Battles are a mix of real-time unit movement and turn-based battles that play out whenever two units engage one another. Unlike many other games in this genre, each unit consists of a group of up to six different characters, arranged in a 2x3 grid. A designated leader determines elements like map movement speed and what kind of assistance they can provide allied units: If you want to move fast to intercept an enemy or conquer a garrison, a cavalry leader is an ideal choice, but if you want to be able to provide combat spell or projectile backup to a nearby squad then you'll need an archer or magic user leading the way.
Movement and positioning is critical, since many fights revolve around taking control of key areas on the map--usually towns, forts, watchtowers, or other structures--and using them as recovery, defense, and deployment stations. Sometimes you'll be blessed with devices like catapults and ballistas that a unit can man and cause serious damage with--if the opposing army doesn't get there first and cause you a massive headache. Buildable barricades and traps can hold forces at bay while you muster strength, but a winged unit can fly right over them without a care. Finally, stamina determines how many times in a row a unit can attack, be attacked, or assist--run out of energy and that team can't move until they rest for a while. There are so many options and factors to consider when it comes to something as simple as map movement, allowing you to devise your own unique approaches to combat. When an allied and enemy unit engage, the view switches to a side-view, turn-based battle that plays out automatically. Units will take turns attacking and using skills based on the abilities and criteria you've set for them.
The characters themselves come in a variety of classes, each with its own unique traits, abilities, and weaknesses. For example, a Hoplite is a tremendous tank that can significantly reduce damage from many physical attacks and protect other characters, but they suffer when up against defense-lowering Housecarls and armor-penetrating magic users. A spear-wielding Knight cavalry unit can attack a row of enemies at once, while a similarly mounted Radiant Knight is strong against magic, but both are vulnerable to weapons and skills targeting horse-riders. When crafting units, you can carefully concoct a balanced mix of defense, offense, mobility, and support--or you can go all-in on an ultra-specialized team designed for a singular purpose. Weapons and accessories can grant extra boosts and abilities to individual characters, which you can then further customize by setting specific criteria for when and how skills are used in battle. Micromanaging so many factors can be very daunting at first, but Unicorn Overlord is excellent at encouraging experimentation and discovery, and it offers you myriad opportunities to test out new units or character builds outside of key battles.
Team-building is a delight, but what also helps keep your attention rapt is how the combat scenarios you face keep on evolving throughout the game. Besides adding elements like new units and assorted traps and hindrances over time, the unique scenarios of major story battles often present surprises that require you to change your approach. You'll just be marching along, only to be greeted by a siege of surprise reinforcements, or perhaps a new ally drops in and wants to help--or needs your protection. And maybe, just maybe, that enemy general can be reasoned with if you have the right person speak to them.
Unicorn Overlord's combat is the standout element of the game--which is good, because it manages to carry the weight of a disappointing story. If you've played any RPG where a group of rebels reclaims the land from a despot with the powers of darkness fueling him, you probably know where the story is headed. I frequently found myself wishing that the cutscenes were less frequent and wordy so I could get back to the fun of moving a bunch of little guys around a map. The individual characters aren't much better, with one-note personalities and motives that don't offer much in the way of development or interesting interactions. There's a whole affection system among characters that opens up brief little side conversations when relationships reach a certain point, but even these typically fail at making the characters appealing beyond mere utility like "that dude looks cool and hits like a truck, so maybe I'll use him more."
But even though the story is lackluster, the core gameplay of Unicorn Overlord is more than compelling enough to make you want to see the story of Prince Alain to its conclusion. There's so much satisfaction and gameplay depth here to sink your teeth into that you may find yourself thinking deeply about the game's team dynamics even when you're not playing. When the primary feeling a game leaves you with is wanting to play more of it, you know you have a gem on your hands.
More than almost any other game from its era, Contra made its name on being brutally difficult: a legacy with an impact that can still be felt today. Even cultural touchstones like the Konami Code owe at least some of their fame to the Contra series--after all, half the reason we memorized that particular sequence of button presses was to get extra lives for our battle against the alien hordes. With Contra: Operation Galuga, WayForward had a peculiar challenge: Sand off the rough edges of the original Contra to make it tolerable to modern audiences without losing the mystique that owes so much to its absurd difficulty. Thanks to some smart improvements, it's found an enjoyable balance, although it's not enough to elevate Galuga to greatness.
This is a retelling of the first game, which means that once again you're Contra operatives Bill and Lance dispatched to the island of Galuga to get to the bottom of strange goings-on there. After a slightly too-wordy introduction in Story mode, you're dropped right into the run-and-gun action, and despite looking and feeling very similar to the first game, the differences will quickly become apparent to series veterans. To start, you have a double jump by default, as well as a dash maneuver that can be used on the ground or in mid-air. Together, these make you much more nimble at dodging enemy fire, allow more room for error when crossing chasms, and turn combat into a quicker, more acrobatic experience.
Despite borrowing the most iconic weapons from the first three games--the Machine Gun, Spread, Laser, Flame Thrower, Homing, and Crush weapons--your arsenal has gotten an upgrade, too. Each signifies a considerable power boost from your default gun by itself, but each can also be upgraded by stacking another weapon pick-up on top of it. Picking up another Homing power-up when you already have Homing equipped makes it a Homing Lv 2, for example. Sometimes this extends the range or breadth of the weapon, like in the case of the Spread and Flame Thrower, while other times it can change a weapon's behavior more significantly. An upgraded Laser will ricochet off targets, while the upgraded Crush changes the weapon from an explosive missile to a firearm that opens small black holes that do continuous damage. And in a welcome quality-of-life tweak, picking up a new weapon will automatically replace a blank weapon slot if you have one. I spent half the game manually switching out of habit before I realized that little nice-to-have.
The weapons all feel rewarding and powerful, but in true Contra tradition, that also makes you feel all the more vulnerable if you happen to lose them. By default, if you're playing with the life bar option, getting hit once will downgrade your weapon, and fully dying and losing a life will cost you the weapon altogether. This encourages you to think and fight somewhat strategically or potentially contend with Contra's difficult fights without an upgraded arsenal.
This also feeds into Operation Galuga's other major update: a shop to buy various perks with the credits you earn during missions. You earn more credits the more risks you take, like playing on higher difficulties or turning on one-hit kills. Then you can use those credits to expand your health bar, purchase extra lives, or even start with a particular weapon--all of which you can buy for a relatively low sum. The bigger purchases, however, are absolute game-changers. I immediately saved up for the upgrade that automatically transforms any weapon you pick up into the upgraded version. With that secured, I began saving for another that would let me keep that upgraded weapon after sustaining a hit. Another, which I considered but ultimately bypassed, lets you keep your weapon even upon death. You can only equip two perks at a time, but finding a combination that suits your play style adds a light layer of character customization to what is otherwise a very straightforward action game.
The game balance feels built around these perks, finding a sweet spot of challenge that was satisfying. Even with everything working in your favor, it can be tough dodging reams of enemy fire while taking out various aliens who are both firing from a distance and charging straight at you, all at once. At the best of times, combat can be breathless and exciting. But the ability to select stages individually in Story mode makes it easy to fail out of a stage, reorganize perks, and try again. It also has a fairly generous checkpoint system, so even if you do mess up, you may not lose all your progress. The result is a game that recalls the feeling of overcoming the tough Contra challenge of yesteryear, without venturing into becoming too frustrating or reliant on perfecting a single run.
For those who do want the challenge, though, you can play with classic mechanics, including one-hit kills and even 8-direction aiming rather than the default omnidirectional aim. A separate Arcade mode skips the story sequences and just presents the levels back-to-back, granting a high score, with an increasing multiplier of credits to spend on the in-game shop the further you get. Finally, there's also a set of optional Challenge stages to fulfill objectives like getting through an area or beating a boss within a time limit, usually without ever getting hit.
The story is nonsense, but it's an enjoyable kind of nonsense. The original Contra was inspired by over-the-top action movie tropes of the 1980s, and this runs with that premise with anachronistic glee. Many of the story sequences go on at least a little too long, but it plays its absurd machismo for laughs and packs some strangely amusing surprises. If anything, it could stand to be even more on-the-nose with its satirical inspirations.
Throughout the story, you'll meet other characters fighting on the side of the Contra, and for the most part, they'll ultimately become unlockable characters--either through the course of the story itself or as purchasable characters from the shop. Each character has a single specialized ability to buy in the shop as well--like a short dash invulnerability window for Bill, or a higher double jump for Lance--which makes a series of mostly identical army-men action figures play somewhat differently. The special abilities at least invite some mechanical reasoning for choosing a favorite playable character, but for the most part, your chosen character will likely only come down to which character model you like to look at the most. There's not enough difference between characters for any true strategic benefit.
And like action figures, these character models look shiny and plasticine, along with their backgrounds. The visual style is perhaps the least attractive aspect of the entire presentation because it often looks so generic and dull. There are individual moments in some stages that appear more visually distinct and interesting, and you can occasionally sense there may have been a seed of an idea to make these oily-looking character models reminiscent of a walking G.I. Joe. On the whole, though, it fails to show the panache that WayForward has become known for, which is disappointing for the revival of such a storied franchise.
Still, Contra: Operation Galuga has it where it counts. It feels like classic Contra in all the ways that matter, and a series of changes and upgrades--from minor tweaks like auto-equipping weapons to major new elements like the perks shop--are just enough to make it feel smooth and modern. This may not be a modern classic, but it shows how a classic series like Contra can feel fresh again.
I was a bit apprehensive before playing Disney Dreamlight Valley. Although I've been a huge fan of Disney's animated films since I was a kid, developer Gameloft is primarily known for developing mobile titles, some of which have egregious microtransaction systems, such as Disney Magic Kingdoms. After playing Disney Dreamlight Valley for roughly 30 hours, I realized that it wasn't microtransactions that I had to be concerned about, as there were no paywalls or progress-blocking instances that required me to pay cash. The more prevalent issues with the game were the extremely grindy progression system and restrictions coming from the real-time systems.
Disney Dreamlight Valley begins just as my character was whisked away into a magical fantasy kingdom. Approached by Merlin, it was revealed that a curse known as the Forgetting turned the once-whimsical land into a realm of despair and darkness. Merlin provides a tutorial through the basic mechanics such as removing obstacles called Night Roots and using tools like the pickaxe, shovel, and fishing pole.
At first, I was worried since regular tasks like mining ores with the pickaxe or removing clumps of roots quickly drained my character's stamina. My initial concerns were quickly assuaged, as stamina is regularly refilled whenever I leveled up, ate food, or spent just a few seconds in my character's home.
Needless to say, I was surprised at how player-friendly this mechanic is. From here, the game opens up, as you collect more resources used to craft new items, find ways to decorate the village, and sell materials to earn additional coins. The village itself can be redesigned to your fancy, as you can move around buildings and objects to make way for other structures.
The best part about Disney Dreamlight Valley is its inclusion of fan-favorite characters, along with their respective themes or locations. The initial batch consists of Merlin, Mickey, Goofy, and Scrooge McDuck (Goofy and Scrooge act as vendor NPCs, too), but you soon gain access to the Dream Castle, which has portals that lead to realms populated by other notable characters from Disney and Pixar films. These include Simba, Nala, and Scar (The Lion King); Moana and Maui (Moana); Ariel, Eric, and Ursula (The Little Mermaid); Elsa, Anna, Kristoff, and Olaf (Frozen); Mirabel (Encanto); and many more.
These short romps have fairly straightforward tasks, such as planting crops in a dried-up oasis to help Nala trap the hyenas, which then led to using the shovel to find bugs that she and Simba could eat. In Moana's case, you collect resources to repair her boat and then remove obstacles so you can sail to another area together. The vast majority of quests in Disney Dreamlight Valley lean more toward the easy or leisurely side of things, but there were also a few tricky puzzles which I liked.
Completing quests in these mini-realms allows the corresponding characters to be recruited to your village, where they become villagers or potential companions. They also provide a source of additional side quests after befriending them by giving them gifts. For example, after Kristoff moved to the village, I found him in the forest biome where he gave me a quest to rescue Donald Duck in a portal zone.
This gameplay loop--one where you meet characters, max out their friendship levels to unlock new quests, leading you to meet even more characters--kept me engaged. As I ventured forth into certain areas, I also wanted to tackle the tasks therein, and perhaps gain new villagers or companions along the way. My village, once a rundown and cursed place, eventually became a busy locale, full of people just milling about and interacting with one another. Interactions that added to the ambience and atmosphere also happened regularly. For example, characters like Ursula and Ariel might show up while I was fishing, or Simba and Nala might play around only for Merlin to scold them. These ambient interactions also include photo mode, which causes characters to pose for selfies. There truly were moments in Disney Dreamlight Valley that gave me a sense of wonderment as I recalled my younger days of first seeing some of these characters, thinking of what it'd be like if they were all in the same place.
Sadly, Disney Dreamlight Valley has its own share of fundamental issues. Chief among these is that the overall progression of unlocking realms and characters, while also doing quests, remains unclear and downright confusing. This is compounded by realm and biome unlocks that primarily require a currency called Dreamlight, which often comes from general tasks listed in a panel. Examples include mining X number of rocks/ore deposits in Y biome, preparing a certain number of meals, bringing gifts, adding decorations in a particular biome, catching/cooking/selling different kinds of fish (sometimes in a specific biome), buying/planting specific types of seeds (and harvesting them), and many more.
I recall when I amassed a lot of Dreamlight to unlock a new realm in the castle. Although biomes and realms have their respective Dreamlight costs, I opted to prioritize the slightly more expensive Frozen Realm. I met up with Elsa and Anna and thought I'd be done with the objectives in a jiffy. Unfortunately, I needed Iron Ore to progress. It just so happened that Iron Ore comes from other biomes in the village that I hadn't unlocked yet. That meant I had to redo the aforementioned gathering and mining tasks to earn more currency.
This checklist-based approach turned what could've been a grand adventure into monotonous drudgery. While there’s no strict method of progression, there’s still an optimal one. A single mistake--unlocking realms in the wrong order--was all it took to turn my relaxing playthrough into a by-the-numbers grind where I repeatedly looked at the Dreamlight panel to ensure that I could still amass as much currency as possible. In other instances, I accidentally used a material for a particular task or craftable item, not knowing that it's also needed for various quests. The biggest factor that bars progress now is something none of us can avoid: time.
The in-game time in Disney Dreamlight Valley is synced with your local real-world time. Certain crops need to be watered repeatedly, and you can only harvest them after many minutes have passed. In other cases, you might run out of a particular resource, only to realize that these nodes also won't respawn until later.
Worse, characters follow a particular schedule. You might see them roaming around the village, in which case you'd be able to talk to them, give gifts, do quests, or ask them to hang out with you (which nets you bonuses based on an assigned task). However, if they're asleep, you have no choice but to wait, as there's no in-game option to advance time. Although it's possible to set your system clock further ahead, doing so can cause adverse effects, such as mineral/resource nodes no longer appearing.
There were instances when I could only play late at night and found the NPCs that I wanted to interact with weren't available, as each one followed a predetermined schedule. While this added a degree of reality to the village, it just didn't make sense that I had to adjust my schedule because Buzz Lightyear and Mirabel are asleep from 10 PM. to 2 AM These restrictions negatively impacted my progress and enjoyment with the campaign overall.
In the end, Disney Dreamlight Valley still managed to captivate me thanks to its wonderful cast of characters and their magical worlds. The cozy life-sim concept allows you to gather, farm, and build at a leisurely pace. Unfortunately, I was also disappointed by the decision to have a real-time sync feature and an unclear progression path that’s compounded by repetitive tasks. The quests that you undertake aren't skill-based either--they're patience-based, so to speak, as any mistake made when unlocking biomes or spending materials can be downright exasperating. Two concepts clash here: the delightful and whimsical themes that spark the joy of your inner childhood, and the frustrations of time management as you experience the monotonous daily grind as an adult.
Poker has endured as a popular and immensely enjoyable card game because of how malleable it is. The purest form of poker is predominantly played in your hand, with you deciding on cards to discard and redraw in the hopes of creating a better hand than your opponents. Texas Hold'Em, by far the most popular variation on poker, eschews these rules by giving all players five shared cards on the table, and two cards in their hand to try and outwit other players with. A small change like this has a dramatic impact on how the game ultimately plays out, inviting the assumption that other small tweaks might have similar effects. Balatro operates directly in this space. It creates distinct scenarios through both deck building and randomization that force you to think about poker hands differently during short, captivating runs in its roguelite structure. It injects new life into the fundamental rules of poker without requiring any previous knowledge of the game, feeling deftly balanced for both newcomers and experts of the card game alike.
Balatro is deceptively straightforward. Each round you play features a blind, which here is a total score you need to beat in order to progress. Each card has its own chip value, while different poker hands add on multipliers to the total score you hand tallies to. Play better hands with better cards, and you'll progress from the small blind to the big blind and ultimately a boss blind before the ante is raised and you're challenged to repeat the process with more challenging totals to topple. You're limited to a certain number of hands you can play during each round, as well as a limited amount of discard opportunities that let you toss away cards you don't want to use. A handy glossary makes the action approachable even if you're unfamiliar with the basics of poker, and the means to progress through each round aren't fundamentally rooted in a deep understanding of the odd differences between each hand.
Knowing the odds of different poker hands and why you might want to pursue simple straights and flushes over the combination of the two will probably help initially in earlier rounds, but as you go on, Balatro exposes its random roguelite elements to great effect. Joker cards are Balatro's big modifiers, offering a suite of effects that can quickly define a build that will ultimately influence the theme of your run. The combination of a joker that adds multipliers for playing Club cards with another that rewards the use of only face cards (Kings, Queens, and Jacks) can turn otherwise simple flushes or straights into incredibly high-scoring hands--a strategy you may need to progress through more challenging blinds. Other jokers can be delightfully chaotic, like one that randomizes its multiplier each time you play a hand or another that consumes other joker cards and adds their value to its overall multiplier. The game quickly starts encouraging you to strategize around the jokers that you're given access to (each new one you purchase gets added to the pool of potential reappearances) and adjusting the hands you play around them in order to progress, making each run feel distinct in spite of the simple mechanics underpinning them.
A shop that's available between rounds stocks jokers for you to purchase with money you earn based on your performance during each blind. In addition to jokers, there are a variety of different card types that can have an equally important impact on your run. Arcana cards are consumables that you can use for a variety of effects, many of which alter the nature of cards in your deck. Some might swap the house that a card belongs to or promote a card up a rank. Others can turn cards into different materials entirely. Glass cards provide higher multipliers when played but have a chance to shatter permanently, while steel cards have their rank and suit stripped but provide chip and multiplier bonuses. These are just a handful of examples, and knowing when to use certain Arcana cards is as important as knowing which to discard depending on the balance you've formed with your inventory of jokers.
Planet cards provide more holistic changes, increasing the rank of particular poker hands which provide more chip and multiplier bonuses when you play them. Like Arcana cards, Spectral cards are consumable, but have much greater effects on your deck, sometimes altering numerous cards at a time at the expense of one, as an example. The combination of Arcana and Spectral cards, coupled with the effect of Planet cards, provides a deck-building element to Balatro that is engaging to interact with. It's far less involved than many other deckbuilder roguelites, especially when you consider that all deck construction is determined by randomization throughout each run, so it's more a system to complement your growing collection of potential joker pulls rather than the fundamental strategic element throughout each run.
Each ante consists of three rounds: a small blind, a big blind, and a boss blind. The boss blind is the only one where the rules can be twisted and changed, with the modifier exposed at the start of each ante. This gives you the chance to acknowledge and prepare for the boss ahead, but the two blinds and their associated shops sometimes don't offer the tools for you to adequately change your build if you foresee a big challenge. Some bosses nerf entire suits, which can quickly end runs that depend on that for big scores. One particularly nasty one limits you to just playing a single hand, which has been the death of many of my own runs when appearing in early antes. You can opt to skip blinds (including the cash you might earn and a trip to the shop) in exchange for tokens that can, in some cases, completely change the boss modifier before you reach it) but given that this and, seemingly, the modifiers that bosses are assigned are completely random, it can be frustrating to have an otherwise great run ruined by what seems like rotten luck.
But as much as any roguelite is rooted in random (but carefully calculated) luck, you can have runs where you feel virtually unstoppable. Each element, from jokers to Planet cards, has a substantial impact on both how you approach each new round and the scores you're able to obtain with single hands. They also force you to vary the way to play each run, as simply sticking to the same traditional poker hands will very quickly prevent you from reaching higher antes. A run where you focused on transforming all your cards into hearts and using jokers that rewarded the use of them could be followed by one where the emphasis is instead on playing just three cards with each hand, with a joker and Planet card both synergizing with that. Throw in a joker that allows you to complete straights with just four cards and another that lets you skip missing cards to create one and you've got a whole other avenue to try and beat the game's finale, the eighth ante. It is immensely satisfying to watch your score soar upwards as multiplier upon multiplier is added to each of your hands, with the scoreboard being set ablaze when you've conjured up a particularly gigantic one. But ultimately the variety keeps each of Balatro's runs surprisingly fresh given the simplicity of its underlying mechanics, urging you to take on another run immediately after you've completed one.
Overall progression doesn't end once you've beaten the game's eighth ante either. Instead, you can continue onwards through an endless run and see just how far you can get, with each new ante getting exponentially more challenging to pass. As you unlock jokers, pass certain milestones, and use particular cards, you'll unlock additional decks that provide new starting parameters to experiment with. Some might be as simple as increasing the number of hands of discards at your disposal, while others activate abilities at the start of each run to help you predetermine what direction you can take it. Once you've completed Balatro with five different decks, a challenge tab unlocks that provides even more reasons to continue running through it. All of this is to say that Balatro provides enough reasons to stick with it for hours on end even after clearing it, making it a great game to both be continuously engaged with and one that you can return to periodically for a long time to come.
Balatro ticks all the boxes for a roguelite that creates a feedback loop that's difficult to draw yourself away from. Its fundamentals are incredibly easy to understand, even if you're unfamiliar with poker, but the ways in which it works within the game's boundaries (and often breaks free from them) injects a level of depth to each hand to play that's both challenging and rewarding to continually engage with. It's a game that will melt away time as you hit play on one run after the next, with each defeat never stinging long enough to dissuade the possibility of victory on the next. While a handful of boss antes annoyingly end runs prematurely, they're nowhere near detrimental enough to take away from the immensely satisfying balance that Balatro strikes in every other aspect.
The WWE 2K series has had a multi-year arc not unlike something you'd see watching WWE's shows on TV. Its 2020 installment was so broken, poorly received, and ultimately meme-ified that the team actually took a year off to fix its jobber-esque series--a rare sight in the world of annualized video games. But since then, it's been on the rise, getting pushed like a WWE superstar to the top of the card, and though WWE 2K24 doesn't yet finish the story, it seems like it's well on the path of cementing a new legacy for itself.
WWE 2K24 adds appreciable, albeit not revolutionary, improvements to last year's solid foundation across the board. The in-ring action is paramount, and WWE 2K24 thankfully builds on the already-excellent mechanics in that regard. There's more fluidity to chaining moves together, and it feels like, at any point in which your character has the upper hand, you can reliably emulate the escalation of a real-life match, with a deep assortment of move sets depending on where you are in the ring. An intuitive control scheme lets you set up a rival sitting atop the turnbuckle, staggered on the ropes, or lying on their back in the middle of the ring for an ankle lock with similar ease. The game simply always feels great to control.
Pairing those contextual attacks with a deep move set for every wrestler in which the left stick and face buttons combine to create excellent variety, 2K24 feels like it rolls out much of what made 2K23 already fun in my hands, but with a few new touches that I enjoy. This includes top-rope maneuvers onto a group of opponents rather than just one; Super Finishers, like Rhea Ripley's belt-winning Riptide from the second rope at last year's WrestleMania; and the ability to throw weapons. These are subtler changes than the complete overhaul the series received when it emerged from its darkest days a few years ago, but they're each welcome to the game and help further emulate the real-life product.
One thing the in-ring action still needs to be fixed is the way wrestlers can warp to complete animations, particularly during top-rope maneuvers. In real life, when a superstar goes to the top rope before a dive attack of some kind, what you don't usually see on TV (due to the cameras purposely hiding it) is how the wrestler receiving the attack will shift their body to help their rival perform the move safely--this avoids things like knees to the head or groin, for example. But WWE 2K's top-rope maneuvers still include a lot of awkward warping of the leaping wrestler to stick the landing. This is not only backward from reality, but often looks janky. This has been in wrestling games for years, and though 2K24's in-ring action is overall excellent, these moments do betray the otherwise commendable level of realism.
The wrestlers themselves usually look good or even great, albeit with the long-present issue of long hair behaving erratically once again rearing its head. The degree of how authentic an in-game model of a WWE superstar looks rises and falls in step with how long their hair is. Baldies like Kurt Angle and Stone Cold Steve Austin look excellent. Short-haired folks like Cody Rhodes and Rhea Ripley benefit from their less-than-luscious locks, and the longest-haired wrestlers like Becky Lynch and Roman Reigns tend to express the most jank atop their domes, with strands often flailing around unrealistically or clipping through their clothes. Like the warping top-rope maneuvers, hair is a long-standing problem in WWE games.
The roster has now ballooned, welcomely I should say, to 200+ current and past talents. Almost anyone you would expect who is not tied up in real-world issues--like being on another brand or otherwise scrubbed from wrestling's all too commonly shady history--is present. A few big current-day talents are sorely missed, but in most cases, they seem to be tied to late arrivals to the brand during the game's dev cycle, such as CM Punk, Naomi, and Jade Cargill. Punk has already been announced as a DLC character, which stings given how important he is to the roster. Naomi and Cargill may one day be on that same tier, but for now, I find their inclusion as DLC characters to be more acceptable and in line with past WWE DLC packs. Punk, however, feels like he should come via a free update.
Several gimmick-heavy match types have been added, including ambulance, casket, special referee, and gauntlet matches. These match types have been present in some past wrestling games, and I think their returns are worthwhile. Though I don't feel a strong fondness for any of them except special referee--which allows for some hilarious multiplayer betrayals--it's nice to have them all back, mostly for some of the game's longer-tailed modes or PvP online where usually everyone wants to put on something more than a standard exhibition match.
Nearly every game mode has improved, but for me, it starts with GM mode. It gamifies running the business more than actually fighting the matches, though that's an option for those who want to do both. In 2K24, GM mode is awesomely deep. Signing free agents now uses a scouting system in which you hone in on the type of superstar you want--say, an established star working as a brawling babyface in the women's division. It costs money to do this, so you're motivated to have a plan, because ideally, you'll spend money to identify someone who fits your needs, and then sign them on the spot.
You can acquire superstars via other new means too, such as trading with rival brands after each premium live event. I've not found the CPU offers me trades I want to execute, but I can initiate my own, and I honestly think I was universally opposed to their offers because I get so attached to my roster and the stories I've created. Still, it's nice to be able to offer cash for wrestlers in trades, like contract buyouts, letting me lose no personalities in the exchange.
The mode's economy is also fleshed out with an overhaul of how you improve the production of your show. Before, you'd need to spend money per show to improve things like the pyrotechnics or lighting, but now you save up to permanently unlock these over the course of the GM mode's multi-season, multi-year arc. I prefer it, because while spending on scouting and trading makes the mode more money-hungry in other ways, it feels like increasing the production value is ultimately less costly and balances out some of that spending, which, by the way, is never done using paid currency, thankfully.
Each superstar in GM mode also now has their own skill level that you upgrade by putting them to use. It essentially measures how good they are in the ring, and they'll unlock new match types for you to use across your show as they level up. This combines with the previously established popularity and stamina systems to help guide (and challenge) your booking as you seek to be the best weekly product in the WWE machine. I've always loved drafting my superstars, creating rivalries, and telling stories over many months just like I see on television, and the new skill system adds more ways for me to feel like I have a clear direction for my show. When I strapped the proverbial rocket to Tiffany Stratton, improving her in-ring work and her popularity with the fans, her value to my show was obvious and rich with rewards, both monetary and otherwise.
For those who want a less business-focused sandbox in which to play, Universe mode returns and is, like GM mode, better than last year's, though its new toys aren't as important as GM mode's. Universe mode is designed as the ultimate WWE simulation, allowing you to book every show, every week, make roster decisions, tell stories with new in-game mechanics you play out like run-ins and post-match beatdowns, and essentially pour over every aspect of the WWE name.
I love the addition of double title matches since this is something common in real life that wasn't available until now. You can also perform Loser Leaves Town matches as a way to write a superstar off your show for some time or even permanently. Like GM, Universe mode asks you to bring some headcanon to the mode--a rivalry has an in-game metric, but you don't actually see the promos being cut, so it's best enjoyed by the players already in deep with wrestling as their weekly hobby who enjoy fantasy booking. With unique mechanics like momentum and power rankings, it scratches a different itch from GM mode even as they both appeal, at the highest level, to players who want to book matches like they're heading up the creative team.
GM and Universe modes are heavy on player-driven and emergent narratives, but for players who prefer their storylines to come scripted like an episode of Raw or Smackdown, MyRise returns with two new storylines and some nice touches to both. The Undisputed and Unleashed storylines offer players story modes in the men's and women's divisions, respectively. They both benefit from a lot more voice work this year, which can vary in quality, but since these are wrestlers and not, say, football players, the delivery isn't usually distractingly bad and sometimes it's even good.
Better than the voicework is a new side-questing system that allows you to work shorter programs with rivals off the main path, like briefly feuding with Kevin Owens in exchange for a permanent skill increase before you return to your mainline feud regarding the WWE Universal Championship. The rewards are so worthwhile that I skipped none of them in my playthroughs.
Of the two stories, the women's storyline is more compelling. It sees you start as a Face That Runs The Place-type of star for an indie promotion before you get poached to the big leagues of WWE. I love indie wrestling and attend shows often, so I found myself smiling at how well these cutscenes painted the picture of such a show. It's meant to have an ECW-like quality to it, and the story drills that home with a small but raucous crowd and the DIY nature of the entire promo. The men's story is good too, but its focus on a mid-carder finally getting their push to main event status is just inherently less interesting since it feels much more commonplace in reality.
For the best scripted storytelling in the game, Showcase mode is where to spend your time. Like when NBA 2K revisited its concept of a Michael Jordan legacy mode, WWE 2K foregoes spotlighting a single superstar and opts instead to run back the Wrestlemania-centric Showcase mode it previously attempted 10 years ago. 21 matches across four decades are given the Showcase treatment, which this year includes narration by WWE commentator and former in-ring star Corey Graves, lots of archival footage, and a few talking-head segments with folks like Hulk Hogan and Kurt Angle. I wish there were more interviews to contextualize each match by the people who lived it, as there seemed to be too few even once the mode carries into the modern day where wrestlers are still alive to speak on their matches.
On the bright side, the stylish delivery of Showcase mode returns for a third consecutive year. The matches seamlessly transition from in-game action to live-action footage from years gone by. It never gets old, and I found myself routinely mesmerized by how the matches would blend gameplay and real-life footage. The result is a playable Wrestlemania documentary that caught me up on some of my historical blind spots.
A lot of what makes WWE 2K24 is its best-in-class creation suite, which further separates itself from the field with create-a-referee and an immediately meme-heavy create-a-sign. The WWE 2K community is incredibly dedicated to bringing in every famous face not there today using create-a-wrestler, like MJF, Sting, and Guilia, to reviving old shows like WCW Monday Nitro in create-a-show, to even creating custom championship belts or Money In the Bank briefcases.
The tools run so deep that every creation sub-suite is full of amazing content for the larger community to enjoy thanks to the work of a small percentage of players. With all of these tools, it's entirely possible to use WWE 2K24 to play out entirely different brands like NJPW or AEW, unofficially making it the best game based on those brands, too. It's truly astounding. A lack of custom music continues to hinder the mode slightly, but I sense this is due to the complexity of music rights in the streaming age, so even as its absence is felt, it's also forgivable.
MyFaction returns as the card-collecting live-service mode meant to keep players logging in daily for XP rewards and the lure of spending real money. Given how much else there is to do in 2K24, it feels like an afterthought to anyone but the mode's already-established fans. MyFaction uses similar progression loops as counterparts in other games like Madden Ultimate Team or NBA 2K's MyTeam. It's rife with predatory and uninspiring economies where you can slowly grind through ladders of endless content to marginally improve your faction of superstars, or quickly buy randomized card packs for real money and enjoy much faster gains.
There are ways to target specific superstars and ensure you get what you want, but both the grind of the mode and the dizzying nature of its four separate currencies leave a bad taste in my mouth. I don't have any desire to engage with my faction, The Fudgement Day, beyond what it took for me to review this aspect of the game. Like most sports games doing this kind of content, it feels like meaningless busywork, where the reward is not the gameplay, but watching the numbers in the menu get bigger.
It's meant to activate some probably intensely researched parts of our brain where we're compelled to repeatedly run these mazes to find crumbs of cheese at the end, spending money as we go, and my only hope--since this mode is still relatively new and not as embedded as it is in Madden or EA FC--is that the WWE 2K team can drop this mode or outsource it, thus freeing up more time for meaningful parts of the game. It's already doing so much so well, and yet MyFaction's disappearance would be an addition by subtraction for the series.
It was last year's WWE game that rekindled a years-absent obsession for pro wrestling within me. I'd not be writing this review if that game weren't impressive, and so as a rejuvenated fan of the medium, I've been elated to see how this game improves on the high bar set last year. As both WWE and the wider format of pro wrestling live through a new golden age, it's fortuitous timing for fans that this year's game is so great. While the MTX-heavy mode feels tacked on like a publisher mandate, there are thankfully several other modes that each feel like they deserve to be played for many months ahead, making them the true centerpieces of your personal WWE universe.
One of the hardest reviews I've ever had to write was for Outlast 2. The game was so unnerving that it was hard to psych myself up enough to play it sometimes. The Outlast Trials, Red Barrels' first game since then, doesn't consistently reach those same heights, but it is memorably scary at times, and when it's not frightening, it's plenty rewarding in other ways. Taking a single-player horror series like Outlast and repurposing it as a four-player PvE game sounds like the kind of publisher-mandated live-service experiment too many teams have been tasked with lately. But as an indie team, Red Barrels seems to have steered its own course, and that may be why The Outlast Trials still feels like Outlast rather than a cynical project bearing the name.
The Outlast Trials is set in the Cold War, where you'll customize your figurative guinea pig for a lengthy series of vicious experiments within the Murkoff Facility. The game's opening moments, along with the lore, paint a scene so gruesome and wicked that'll be familiar to series veterans, but disquieting to those new to the Outlast universe.. After training to become sleeper agents who are psychologically deconstructed, tormented, and then brainwashed, you're eventually let back out into the free world awaiting your activation as a secret weapon. The context of your overarching mission is at least as dark as anything this team has done before--and it's set its bar quite high previously.
In practice, these experiments play out on various large maps like a police station, a courthouse, a carnival, and more. Each one is propped up as a facsimile of the real thing as you run through the Murkoff-made mazes like a lab rat. This involves many signature Outlast elements, none more emblematic than carefully crawling through the dark in first-person while desperately seeking salvation--or at least batteries--before your night vision runs out of juice.
Like its predecessors, The Outlast Trials is still very often set in the dark, but it uses the light more than its predecessors. It's a clever way to torture you. Though you'll often wish you could find that next battery pack before you have to resort to feeling around for walls in the dark, oftentimes you'll also need to move through well-lit areas, which betray you in the opposite way of making your escape obvious to patrolling enemies. It reminds me of how, in brutal heat, one may wish it were winter, but then in the snow, they may dream of summer. The light and dark are used to diversify the obstacles in your path, much like the noise traps, failed minigames, and naked giants looking to smash you into the carpet. Yes, what would an Outlast game be without monstrous men swinging their pendular arms and penises alike?
The minigames will seem familiar to players of other multiplayer horror games, like Dead By Daylight and The Texas Chain Saw Massacre. Starting generators or picking locks quickly but quietly is nerve-racking but implemented fairly, so that your screw-ups feel like your own and not the game forcing drama where it ought not have been. The minigames are challenging enough to provide the drama already, and the idea of a masterful or even perfect run--avoiding traps or failed minigames, taking no damage, and perhaps even never being sighted by enemies--is a fun reward to chase for players who play long enough to get acquainted with the game's more frightening bits.
You'll need to contend with all manner of vile AI enemies, including a prison guard all too happy to use his baton, a supernatural entity called The Skinner Man which haunts you whenever your mental state deteriorates, and Mother Gooseberry, a grotesque shattered-mirror version of a nursery school teacher who dons a face akin to Leatherface's Pretty Woman mask, but supplements it with an unnerving hand puppet duck with a menacing drill hidden in its bill. In Outlast, nearly every villain is an icon--this has long been true and continues in The Outlast Trials.
Furthering the game's uneasy feeling is the level of nauseating detail found in every corner of every map. Bodies are left crammed into trash cans, or quartered like a butcher shop's display. The walls are plastered with propaganda furthering your in-universe descent toward submission and brainwashing. Creepiest of all, and something I find to be a true stroke of horror genius, is that every map features Murkoff researchers clad in white lab coats observing you from behind safety glass. So while you may be running for your life, losing your mind, or bleeding out on a bathroom floor, the cold and cruel scientists simply observe and report. The Outlast Trials continues to prove its studio has a knack for being sincerely sinister.
One new wrinkle to this reimagined Outlast is that you can throw bricks and bottles to distract or briefly stun enemies. That's the simplest means of self-defense in a series that has only ever let you run and hide before. But the more evolved version of fighting back, built for a game that wants to be infinitely replayable like this does, is your rig--a cooldown-enabled special ability of your choosing with many upgrades to unlock slowly over time. There are a few different rigs, such as abilities to heal your team or throw mines that deploy smoke to cover your tracks, and the best use of any one of them is to combine it with those belonging to other players who may be loading into matches with different rigs than yours. Collectively, you are whole as a group.
This design winds up revealing that a more traditional Outlast is tucked away inside this multiplayer-focused prequel. Though many mission objectives scale for your team size, such as needing to turn on multiple generators in a pitch-black basement when you're on a team rather than needing to activate just one as a solo player, the game is nearly as scary as I found Outlast 2 to be when played alone. That's a good thing, as it means anyone turned off by the new direction of this series can still find something close enough to the classic Outlast experience if they want it.
Missions can take much longer when played this way too. A mission that might take 90 minutes solo can reliably be completed by a full team in a third of the time, in my experience. I'm fine with either case, depending on how I want to play at a given time, but it's frustrating that the always-online nature of the game means I can't truly pause it even when playing alone. I resorted to hiding in lockers, barrels, or under beds if I needed to step away for a moment, but that ran the risk of being kicked for inactivity.
The Outlast Trials becomes less scary with each additional person you add to your group. It's a little bit "strength in numbers" and a little bit "misery loves company." Simply put, the unimaginable horrors this game throws at you become more digestible the bigger your group is. When played with people you know, it can take the shape of a haunted hayride--the screaming becomes equal parts laughter and fright. It's fun to be vulnerable with your friends. The Outlast Trials isn't as scary with multiple people playing along, but it becomes a memorable time in a way previous Outlast games weren't intended or able to be.
Still, I do find this to be a strange outcome; the game designed for four players loses a lot of its horror luster if it's actually played that way. This review is based on the game's 1.0 build that launches on March 5, but both this week and in earlier sessions--some of them from months ago during the game's Steam Early Access run--I've experienced some missions in which everything was trivially easy because the three players I joined up with were, on some occasions, experts. It was like they had figuratively broken out of the boundaries set by the wretched facility and were able to game the system to max out rewards. To them, it became not a game of co-op horror, but a climb up a steep rewards tree.
That's not as satisfying to me, as someone who wants to play an Outlast game to be terrified, but it hasn't been common, thankfully. It's possible to have such an experience, but more often my team was composed of a few unlucky souls who struggled to do just enough to limp out of the exit doors before they shut for good. That's more like it, and thankfully more common.
Still, if you're going to chase that skill ceiling for the game's rewards, there are plenty. As each player builds up their character, unlocking new cosmetic decor for their personal "sleep room" and character, as well as new passive skills and rig abilities, it's quickly obvious just how numerous they are. There's not one skill I felt like I could do without, from learning to slide, to bashing open locked doors more quickly, to increasing my stamina or battery life. For most players, the odds will feel stacked against you, so choosing a new skill is both hard in a choice-paralysis kind of way, and also somehow easy too, since ultimately you really can't go wrong. Every improvement is welcome when you're otherwise so powerless. I wanted them all, and continue to chase some of them today.
Rewards are earned each time you level up, which would turn your victim into an overpowered super lab rat in time, except the missions do well to advance in difficulty alongside you, with endgame content and weekly limited-time missions that serve as out-of-reach rewards for many hours and eventually become the long-tailed excuse to return to the game regularly.
The game even uses an almost Call of Duty-like prestige system, in which you graduate a character through the endgame trial and release them into the world--in the lore this allows them to join society and await their activation phrase, which I find deliciously dark. You'll retain your unlocks and start anew with another character, or Reagent, which means this process is light on both rewards--the only such example in the game--and consequences, but at least the story justification is creepy. I only wish there was more story put front and center. Beyond this contextual understanding and an opening cinematic, you'll consume the narrative only via collectible text logs found in each level randomly.
The Outlast Trials is a surprisingly rewarding multiplayer horror game. It's capable of being as terrifying as previous Outlast games, and though you'll trade away some scares when playing with a bigger group, they're likely to be replaced by nervous laughs as you and your allies narrowly evade monsters in the dark. Surviving and returning to the hub facility means you'll then unlock great metagame content like more punishing missions and skills that are helpful no matter what you unlock. These gameplay loops are hard for seemingly most live-service teams to figure out, so it's especially impressive that a small, traditionally single-player horror studio found a formula that works so well.
It's initially jarring to witness an Outlast with things like cooldown abilities, cosmetic customizations, and upgrade trees, though it doesn't take long to appreciate this new look. The Outlast Trials, like the lineup of villains at the heart of it, wears many faces, but each of them is memorable.
Penny's Big Breakaway is a loving homage to a somewhat awkward period in gaming history. The early days of 3D mascot platformers were defined by garish saturated colors, exaggerated character designs, and a variety of gimmicks as the genre found its footing in this new environment. Penny's Big Breakaway fits right into that legacy, like a lost gem that just got a shiny new remaster. But while its stylized look will probably be an acquired taste, it makes good use of its gimmick to avoid some pitfalls of the era it emulates.
The story revolves around Penny, an aspiring yo-yo performer who goes to a talent show audition put on by a stodgy Emperor. Along the way, her toy prop fuses with a creature, becoming a sort of sentient and voracious pet. The creature grants her all sorts of special abilities but also causes trouble at the talent show, angering the Emperor and putting her on the run from his army of penguin goons. Her "big break" turned into a breakaway, get it?
That sets the stage, so to speak, for a few different elements. For one, it sets the expectation that stages will be propulsive with constant movement. You're a wanted fugitive! As a result, stages aren't wide open worlds to explore so much as they are courses to navigate, often with great speed, as you stunt and trick your way past traps and obstacles. You can occasionally pause to catch your breath or find a collectible, but for the most part, each stage has you running from Point A to Point B as fast as you can.
The premise and stage design ethos also facilitates the major threat of the penguin army. While there are standard enemies and a life bar like you might expect from any 3D platformer, this is a more novel element. Instead of having your health whittled down by enemy crash damage, the penguins are trying to capture you. They don't damage you at all, but they do cling onto you and slow you down, and if too many swarm you at once, you'll be captured. You can fling them off in small doses, but it's easy to get overwhelmed if too many come at once. They aren't a constant presence in the stages, but the threat allows them to be peppered in at key moments to keep you on your toes or lightly encourage you to pick up the pace. It's a clever little move that I appreciated more as I saw the way the stage design slyly inserted them at key moments.
Finally, there's the yo-yo. This is the major gameplay gimmick of Penny's Big Breakaway, and the impetus for your whole suite of special moves and abilities. You can fling it at enemies, naturally, but you can also use it to cling onto ziplines, to spin giant screw-machines, ride like a unicycle, and facilitate acrobatic mid-air moves. You can yank yourself forward for a pseudo-air dash, or make the yo-yo stick in mid-air a single time to swing off it like a grapple point. It's a versatile set of moves that feels very natural after only a few hours, which helps you feel properly equipped throughout the progressively increasing difficulty.
On top of your regular abilities, the yo-yo can also get a variety of special abilities when it eats certain foods. A hamburger will make it extra heavy and able to knock down walls, and a red pepper gives you a speed boost for your unicycle ability, while a cake lets you spin into the air and flutter your way down. Like the standard abilities, these are scattered throughout stages to add a little spice and variety.
By default, the standard yo-yo attacks are mapped to the right stick, which means you have no camera control. This is mostly fine, as the levels are built to move in one direction and the automated camera tracks your movements well enough that it isn't often a problem. But the very rare occasion that I did hit an obstacle or pit I didn't see made me wish for my own camera control, and besides that, I didn't actually use the stick-based yo-yo controls often anyway--aside from the spinning maneuver, which can only be performed with the stick controls, I favored button-based controls. The right-stick control does allow you to fling your yo-yo in one direction while running in another, which is a nice touch, but not often necessary. Maybe it's just because I'm used to the standard jump and attack button placement, but I used those much more often, so the trade-off for full camera control left me wanting.
Sometimes, though, and especially in later chapters, the level design is a little too sparse with its checkpoints. Since levels are designed to be chains of traversal, tricks, and stunts, it's easy to get sent back to a checkpoint and then have to fight your way back to where you died just to try it again. Fortunately, there's no real penalty for death other than a cost to your high score, since even if you run out of life, your checkpoint spot is retained.
Then, of course, there's the visual style, the most direct homage to the era that it's imitating, and the one that leaves me with the most mixed feelings. The transition to 3D was a particularly thorny one in gaming history, as the rudimentary polygon-pushing could only do so much with its power and settled on simple shapes and saturated colors--think series like Banjo Kazooie or Klonoa. It's a distinct style, but it's one that was defined by very early limitations, and so it's not one that has aged gracefully. Penny's Big Breakaway approximates this style well, with characters who are often little more than bulbous spheres with faces drawn on and draped in a few other bubbly clothes. I'm not nostalgic for video games having that look, so I didn't find this visual style appealing, but I can imagine it will feel cozy for gamers who came of age alongside the N64 and PlayStation.
The story comes to a sweet little conclusion, though I couldn't even begin to explain much of what happens in between. The story meanders, sometimes seeming as if it's coming to a head only to jump off in some other direction. One of my favorite boss-baddies was a strident, by-the-books judge, but his part was so minor and quick that I wished for more time with him at the expense of less memorable antagonists.
But then, even a hazy, dreamlike story could be interpreted as a tribute. Penny's Big Breakaway is a loving tribute to a bygone era, warts and all. Its new and inventive ideas, like the acrobatic yo-yo mechanic or the penguins hot on your tail, show a level of cleverness, but it is also a sweet, earnest throwback. I'd like to see Penny return, though maybe next time, this lost-gem motif can be applied to a less restrictive era in 3D platforming.
In the final moments of Final Fantasy 7 Remake, Cloud finds himself at Destiny's Crossroads. Sephiroth has torn a hole in the fabric of reality, and a thrashing gateway into an unknown future beckons. It's a daunting prospect that is made even more so when Aerith says the next step in their journey will involve "changing more than fate itself." This was a statement of intent from developer Square Enix that suggested its retelling of one of the most beloved stories in video game history may not play out how fans expect, or perhaps want. It's a moment in which characters and players alike share in the unsettling nature of uncertainty. Before they step through the gateway, Tifa asks Aerith, "What will we find on the other side?" to which she replies, "Freedom. Boundless, terrifying freedom." And she was right.
Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth is a game about a struggle between fate and freedom, but also the delicate balance between authorship and agency. Through gameplay systems that encourage exploration, Rebirth empowers players to discover the world around them and chart their path through it. And through its story, it presents a compelling narrative about the destructive impact of exploiting natural resources, as well as the human causes and consequences of radical environmentalism. But it's a story that, ultimately, is defined and destined to end in very specific ways, for better or for worse. The equilibrium between contrasting ideologies is rarely perfect, and that's evident in Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth, a game that is rewarding for the dozens of hours it enables agency, but is frustrating in the few hours that author the series' future.
While the events of Remake were confined to Midgar and largely linear, Rebirth pushes back the borders to let players explore new horizons on their terms. Across 60-plus hours, Cloud, Aerith, Tifa, Barrett, and a few other party members follow in the footsteps of the mysterious pale-skinned and dark-robed individuals briefly encountered in Remake. Although they are largely incapable of communicating beyond pained groans, they are nonetheless key to tracking down Sephiroth and stopping him from destroying the world. Their slow onward march is what plots the group's course through the game's various locales.
The journey begins in the verdant fields of the Grasslands just outside Midgar, an immediate and stark contrast to Remake, which takes place primarily in the greys of a city built upon industrial machinery and under the boot of the Shinra Electric Company. The Grasslands are lush, with quaint homesteads to stumble upon, Chocobo ranches to visit, and dangerous wetlands to negotiate. Like every location in the game, it's all brought to life with an eye-catching vibrancy accentuated by a rousing orchestral soundtrack built on instantly recognizable musical motifs. The Grasslands are the ideal place to instill the sense of openness that Rebirth uses to differentiate itself from the previous entry in the series, while also driving home the magnitude of the task that lies ahead.
From there, it's off to the lower reaches of Junon, a transport hub that exists in the shadow of Midgar. It's a place that was given life and opportunity by Shinra and its industry of siphoning mako from the planet but is also stifled by it. The red rocks and majestic geological formations of Cosmo Canyon and the thriving jungles of Gongaga further display the planet at its most beautiful and show that communities can form a mutually beneficial harmony with nature. Costa Del Sol, meanwhile, is an exotic hub of tourism where people have an easygoing attitude and Gold Saucer stands as a monument to opulence built upon the exploitation of a precious resource.
Traveling between them involves navigating treacherous mythril mines, sailing on cruise ships, taking cable cars, and using other forms of transportation that bridge regions in a way that creates the illusion of a connected world. The seams between them are noticeable even when it becomes possible to freely move around via land, sea, or air, but it's never a problem because they are substantial enough to create an overwhelming sense of scale. They also have a diversity of aesthetics that makes each region distinct and are given continuity through narrative-driven pathing. It might not be an open world in the traditional sense, but its vastness certainly makes it feel like one.
While it may be more appropriate to say Rebirth is made up of open zones, the things you do within them are typical open-world genre fodder. What makes Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth remarkable is that it executes a familiar design template in service of reinforcing key themes of the game. It's all driven by World Intel, which returning character and hyper-boffin Chadley uses to build a database of the world. Completing what is essentially busywork and generating world intel allows Chadley to develop and enhance Materia, items that bestow magic abilities and skills on characters.
The gameplay loop involves finding Remnawave towers, scaling them, and then activating them so they reveal more activities to do in the surrounding area. From there, you can do combat assignments, grab treasure from excavation sites, take on powerful fiends, investigate sanctuaries, or collect resources. On paper, it's the ordinary and uninspiring Ubisoft formula many grew tired of years ago, but its implementation is more thoughtful than it seems.
Final Fantasy 7's story as a whole is about the damage a parasitic corporation is doing to the planet by draining it of mako, which in turn is harming the lifestream, an ethereal energy that gives life to the planet. Remake explored the consequences of this on a small and very human scale by focusing on Midgar and its people. Through Cloud, we witnessed how the lives of ordinary citizens have been destroyed by Shinra and how its ongoing excavation of mako has allowed it to gain complete control over every facet of society. This perspective was essential to justifying the actions of Cloud and Avalanche, who are effectively eco-terrorists. By empathizing with people, Avalanche's actions and fight for the people became righteous.
Rebirth broadens that perspective to show the fight is also for the future of the planet. To illustrate how much higher the stakes are, it needs to show the impact that Shinra is having on the world beyond Midgar and how people in all corners of that world have had their lives turned upside down. It successfully does this by engendering a deeper connection and understanding of the world in the player. On a fundamental level, it asks them to explore their surroundings to find activities, which helps mentally map out the topography of each location and develop familiarity with it, but then each activity feeds into strengthening that connection to the world in exchange for tangible rewards and character growth.
Lifesprings, for example, are locations where the lifestream has manifested as natural, raw mako. Until now, mako has only been presented as a fuel or as materia, but the areas around lifesprings are where nature is thriving, with an abundance of natural resources that can be collected and utilized to craft healing items, thus reinforcing the idea that the lifestream and mako are precious and life-giving. Excavation sites require players to use a Chocobo to sniff out buried transmuter chips that can be used to forge equipment, but these locations are also the scars of so-called progress that comes at the cost of diminishing the power of the lifestream, so players get a first-hand look at what Shinra is doing to the planet. Combat assignments involve defeating specific fiends in the world, but the player is presented with in-depth information about targets that contributes to an evolving understanding of the ecology of the world and how abuse of mako has transformed it.
The combat simulator is also where summons can be challenged and, if defeated, called to provide aid in battle. However, they live up to their legendary status by being incredibly difficult to fight, taking very little damage, and even unleashing attacks that can instantly wipe out the entire party. Beating a summon is nigh impossible for all but the most patient and skilled players and rarely a realistic endeavor to pursue. However, one of the activities out in the world involves finding Sanctuaries, which contain crystalline knowledge of these mythical beasts. Gathering information from a summon's designated sanctuaries provides Chadley with insight that can be utilized to make the battles easier. With each additional sanctuary, the summon battle becomes less punishing until the fight is very manageable. Again, this is an extremely smart way of taking a rote activity, imbuing it with narrative significance, and also paying it off with gameplay implications.
Finding some of these activities can be tricky as they are often tucked away in dark corners of the map or placed at heights that require scaling structures to reach, but the game uses in-game signposting and guidance to direct the player without making it mindless. Springseeker owls will come to you and hoot to get your attention, then lead you in the direction of a lifespring, much like the foxes in Ghost of Tsushima. For fast-travel points, an adorable baby Chocobo will excitedly bounce over to lead you to Chocobo Stops that have fallen into disrepair so you can fix them up and get them working again. All the while, unlocking towers and completing activities will generate intel points that Chadley can use to make new materia or enhance them.
The gameplay in these activities is repeated across each region and rarely takes unexpected turns into new territory or puts a unique spin on the process, so it says a lot that even then there isn't a single part of Rebirth's overworld activities that comes across as throwaway or pointless. Whether you enjoy doing them is a matter of personal preference, but they consistently felt valuable to me. Every activity is paired with a gameplay system that is impacted by completing it, and the loop of completing world intel in a region is difficult to break out of. It's an almost entirely frictionless experience that has meaningful rewards and contributes to the feeling of growth. But, more than that, it fosters a closeness to the game world and gives weight to the larger struggle to save the planet.
Remake brought a disparate group of people together with the unified goal of stopping Shinra. But that was a process of discovery that involved peeling the layers back on each member of Avalanche to find what they're fighting for and why. In doing so, the group grew closer together, old friendships were renewed, and new ones were forged as they resolved to fight for their futures. In that pivotal moment at Destiny's Crossroads, Aerith pleaded for her friends' help in ending the lifestream's suffering and saving the planet from destruction. "I know that, together, we can do this," she said. Call it earnest or saccharine, but at the soul of Final Fantasy as a franchise is the bond between people and what they can achieve together. And that's another theme that is also emphasized through Rebirth's gameplay--specifically its combat systems.
The game largely plays the same as Remake; that is to say, it is an expertly constructed suite of systems that blend the responsiveness of a satisfying action game with the considered and methodical nature of a turn-based strategy game. This hybrid was a revelation in Remake, and it has only been enhanced in Rebirth. The improvement comes from a focus on the synergy between characters, which ratchets up the dynamism of combat while also introducing new mechanics to employ in the heat of battle. While every character has a basic attack that can be executed repeatedly by hammering a button, special actions are governed by an ATB bar that is split into segments. Abilities, spells, and the use of items each have a cost associated with them. The only way to pay that cost is to fill up segments of the ATB bar by attacking or defending. That's how it goes in Remake, too, but in Rebirth the rate at which the ATB fills up is noticeably slower, which means that each character will face more of an uphill struggle when going it alone. However, Rebirth introduces synergy skills that combine the efforts of multiple characters and, when used, speed up how quickly the ATB bar fills up.
Synergy skills can be offensive or defensive and are free to use repeatedly. They alone won't win you any fights since most aren't particularly damaging, but they can have utility beyond topping up the ATB quickly. Aerith can, for example, request another character step in front of danger to defend her briefly, giving her enough breathing room to use an item or fire off a spell uninterrupted. Cloud can have his sword enhanced by Tifa's destructive power or Aerith's magic and deliver a charged overhead slam, increasing damage a bit. These synergy skills are essential to being successful in battle.
Rebirth is noticeably harder than Remake because it makes specific demands of players. The previous game's pressure and stagger system returns, but it's much harder to push enemies onto the back foot since the game is strict about exploiting weaknesses to reach the pressured and staggered states. Enemies also pack a much harder punch this time, so it's imperative to figure out their weaknesses using the Assess ability and then hammer away at it as quickly as possible. The only way to do that is to execute synergy skills to quickly build ATB bars, then fire off elemental spells, buff other abilities, or put teammates in a position to do the same. As an added wrinkle, the use of certain normal abilities that are marked with an icon also builds towards the use of a drastically more powerful synergy ability. When two characters hit the required amount of synergy, they can combine for a flashy cinematic move that looks cool, but also deals significant damage and applies buffs.
Cloud and Tifa can combine for Relentless Rush, during which he launches her toward the enemy so the duo can attack in tandem. If used on a staggered foe, it will lengthen the amount of time they stay in that state. Red XIII and Barret can pair up for Overfang, during which Barret throws Red XIII at enemies at high speed to do damage but also raises both of their limit levels, quickening the process of accessing the super powerful limit breaks. Repeated use of synergy abilities increases the cost, incentivizing variety so you can always be ready to turn the tide of battle should you need it.
Rebirth's combat is built on a proven framework, which means the underlying systems have been established and set in place. However, the addition of synergy allows the game to create conditions where careful strategies need to be employed, and they can even enable ridiculous combinations of abilities that are borderline game-breaking, but so much fun to pull off. The skill ceiling is pretty high for those interested in really pushing the systems to their limits. Overall though, battles are less like freeform action and more like combat puzzles, and the gameplay is better because of it. There are also situations where keeping it simple and mashing out basic attacks until you can fire off a spell works, too, so there's a good mix of demanding and mindless combat.
Seeing characters relying on each other constantly and having back-and-forths as they tear down enemies brings an exhilarating new depth to the way combat plays, feels, and looks. It leverages the events of Remake and the many battles these characters have gone through together to show the closeness that party has with each other, making a narrative dynamic and the lynchpin of its combat, which is a little stroke of genius. It's another fantastic execution of the idea that themes can be leveraged to strengthen gameplay mechanics.
Rebirth also carries over progression systems from Remake. Characters level up by accruing experience in battle that will, in time, improve stats such as attack and defense. On top of that, AP is generated and contributes towards leveling up materia, strengthening the potency of magic and unlocking higher tiers of spells--the only way to use the firaga spell is to make sure the fire materia is developed, for example. Similarly, weapons have unique abilities that, when used, raise your proficiency with said weapon. Once mastered, the unique ability of a weapon can then be utilized even when you're not wielding it.
New for Rebirth, however, are weapon skills and the Folio system. The former is the ability to unlock unique weapon skills by raising the overall weapon level. These skills are slotted into weapons in the same way materia is, and provide a variety of bonuses such as raising stats, increasing the effectiveness of character-specific states, or buffing magical abilities. It's another small way to enhance that sense of growth. Folios are themed manuscripts specific to each character: The Art of Swordplay for Cloud, Way of the Fist for Tifa, Sharpshooter's Companion for Barret, and so on. As you level up, skill points become available and can be spent to define a style for characters by unlocking certain stat boosts or gauge behaviors. For example, it's possible to create a defensive approach for Cloud that bolsters his ability to take damage or to focus on getting the limit bar filled as quickly as possible by making him an offensive powerhouse. The system isn't open-ended to the point where there are lots of possible builds and for the most part it is quite easy to unlock the majority of upgrades, even if it can be a slow process to do that. As a result, it's beneficial to focus on a more specific build and adjust for the situation by resetting and redistributing the points. The Folio is also where additional synergy abilities are unlocked, as well as elemental spells that are executed using ATB instead of MP. This might not seem like a big deal, but ensuring everyone can always do an elemental spell should tell you about how important exploiting weaknesses is.
The biggest question going into Rebirth was how it would handle its story and characterization. In particular, if and how it would change how the story has already played out. For the most part, it doesn't make any drastic alterations, and the broad beats of the story that happen after Cloud and Avalanche leave Midgar are the same. Rebirth does what Remake did and brings color and richness to the narrative that simply wasn't possible before by delving deeper into its characters. The find-Sephiroth-and-save-the-world narrative thread gets pushed to the background and left dangling for significant stretches of the game so the main cast can take center stage, and it works very well.
Although Remake alluded to backstories and explored them on a very surface level, Cloud was always the main driver of the narrative. It was the story of a mercenary who only ever fought for himself learning to fight for and with others. This time, he effectively plays a supporting role in the story of the other characters up until something Sephiroth-related happens. Much of his story is told through the lens of Tifa, a childhood friend who has slowly developed a closeness with him. Cloud's history is murky, even to himself, but Tifa has the clearest recollection of it, and as his mental state begins to spin out of control under the manipulation of Sephiroth, she serves as his anchor and it leads to some tender moments. But at the same time, she has her own traumatic history to deal with, having lost her father as a consequence of Shinra and Sephiroth's actions. Importantly, the backstories and the exploration of them don't do anything to diminish the characters, and in fact, make each character more human and deserving of empathy. While Tifa has her moments of weakness, she also rises above the challenges to show she has the inner strength to match her outer one.
Barret returns to his hometown and is met with a cold welcome. His demeanor changes from the boisterous, idealistic de facto leader of Avalanche to being meek and unsure of himself. He's riddled with guilt and it's not until his tragic history is laid bare that we learn why this is the case. We see what set him on the path of fighting for the planet and bringing down Shinra. Barret is a family man, and the game's emotional depiction of the pain and responsibility he shoulders is an eye-opening look at what lies beneath his confident surface. Red XII's similarly tragic past is contextualized upon his return to Cosmo Canyon, where we learn much more about him as he learns about the role his family played in the legacy of his people. There is care and attention paid to these characters that are befitting of the high esteem they hold within the culture of video games. There's a reason Final Fantasy 7's characters are so beloved, and Rebirth only strengthens that.
At times, the writing and delivery of dialogue can be unnatural or awkward, but if you're able to buy into the melodrama, it's refreshing how unapologetically earnest each character is, and the exaggerated nature of each character's personality is scene-setting for memorable moments. One such example is Cloud having to give a rousing speech to Shinra troopers and, although it's a goofy scenario, he slowly loses himself as Aerith and Tifa egg him on and it reveals a side of Cloud that wasn't seen in Remake or the original game. We think of Cloud as a stoney-face, brooding, big sword boy, but it turns out he loves a good pep talk when he's in comfortable surroundings. Moments like this are the soul of Rebirth's narrative and frequently exhibit excellent character work that pushes past what might initially seem cringy.
These individual stories are bolstered by moments that enhance the relationship between characters. Party members each have bonds with Cloud, the strength of which grows depending on dialogue choices and, more importantly, side missions. Across each of the game's regions, there are people in need of a helping hand. These missions are rarely exciting from a gameplay perspective, but they provide a nice tonal shift that brings some levity to events. They also provide the opportunity to get a better sense of how Shinra has changed the world by speaking to people who hold different ideals and perspectives. It's not always doom and gloom, as on more than a few occasions I found myself amidst people who have managed to find joy in the simple things in life or figured out how to use the land respectfully to thrive. For every story of tragedy and loss at the hands of Shinra, there is a story that inspires hope and a reason to fight on.
Cloud is usually paired with another character for these side missions, so they're also beneficial for getting quality time with characters. Not only does this deepen Cloud's bond with each one, but it also makes them more well-rounded as characters. They're also where we often get to see how Cloud has changed from the stoic, emotionless mercenary into someone who cares for his friends. There's a moment where Cloud promises he'll be there for someone, and their response is a far cry from the way they would have reacted in Remake--it was a genuinely sweet moment that shows how far they've come. The bond level also comes into play later in the game when you have to decide who to spend some quality time with. Rebirth is also surprisingly funny, and much of that humor is found in the side quests. Some of it comes through the writing and comedic delivery of lines, but there are quite a few wacky situations and hijinx that are played for laughs, and the game nails them. There's also a self-referential aspect that Rebirth revels in; Fort Condor, for example, switches the art style of the game to imitate the blocky character models of the original game, except in super high resolution. That style pops up in other places, too, and it's always a delight to see it.
In between these moments is where the main narrative plays out and, unfortunately, it is much less consistent in quality and confident in its delivery. I found the pacing of the game to be a significant issue, and it's largely due to the middle stretch being too much like the original version of Final Fantasy 7. A significant chunk of the game becomes, at best, a distraction and, at worst, filler. After building up steam, the main story comes to a grinding halt as the gang essentially goes on multiple vacations and makes frivolous activities their main focus. There are key moments within these chapters that move the plot forward, introduce characters, or carry a lot of emotional weight, but they are held hostage by gameplay that is tonally out of place and feels like padding. The payoff of these moments is lessened by the exhausting process of jumping through hoops to get to them.
Gold Saucer is the most emblematic of the issue. It is an iconic part of the original game, and while the new version is undoubtedly impressive visually and how it captures the feeling of being in a theme park, it primarily exists as a container for a bunch of minigames, just like its previous incarnation. These are fun and nostalgic, and it's enjoyable to see the party delight in having fun through sequences that are quintessentially and unapologetically video gamey, but they're also brick walls to narrative momentum and can't be bypassed. Instead, experiencing disparate gameplay ideas packaged up as minigames becomes the story, and it's hard not to get irked when the gang is playing carnival games, frolicking around in beachwear, or racing chocobo for hours on end while the fate of the world hangs in the balance.
I'm all for minigames and I understand that Gold Saucer is an iconic part of the original game. The amount of time I spent playing Queens Blood, a fantastic new in-universe card game that gave me flashbacks to a Triple Triad, is proof I love a good distraction, but they're not a distraction--they're the focus. It harkens back to a time when gameplay ideas defined what the story would be, as opposed to being a reflection of the more sophisticated storytelling opportunities we have now, so I found myself forced to run around a confusingly laid-out theme park going from one minigame to the next just so I could get back to the freedom of the outside world and pursue the main quest again. This happens just enough times back-to-back to nullify any whimsical quality that playing these minigames has, while also disrupting the pace of the game in a major way.
Final Fantasy Rebirth doesn't falter when it comes to individual stories. They make up the vast majority of the game's runtime and narrative substance, but in the moments that are positioned to have the major consequences for how the story plays out going forward, Rebirth stumbles repeatedly. I found myself confused and frustrated by the time I rolled credits. It wasn't enough to spoil how much I enjoyed the experience as a whole, but enough to be worried that the story may be going somewhere that isn't currently inspiring much enthusiasm from me.
The prospect of a reimagined Final Fantasy 7 story that acknowledges the past while also exploring a new future is exciting. My biggest concern was that the setup at the end of Remake and the implications of it could lead to the story becoming convoluted and, sadly, that's exactly what happens in the final stretch of the game. Each time I think about it, I'm either less certain of what is going on and what it means or I'm perplexed at why it happened that way. I loved that Remake folded in all the additional ideas that expanded the world of Final Fantasy 7, and Rebirth was poised to lean into that further, but it ended up making the core story much worse and not doing right by a character key to that element. I can understand what Square Enix was going for and it's an idea that I like because it is full of potentially interesting narrative pathways, but its delivery is so poor that I don't think most people will see that potential.
There is one specific moment that has been the subject of will-they-won't-they speculation for years, and how it resolves manages to be confusing to the point of being incomprehensible. For the original Final Fantasy 7, it became an iconic moment crystalized in the minds of millions by its emotionally devastating impact--and for many, it changed the way they thought about video game characters. In Rebirth, it is bewildering and undermines multiple characters, diminishing and obfuscating qualities that define who they are, the decisions they make, and their motivations for doing so, while also being unclear about what is actually happening. Aerith, in particular, is robbed of a moment that is so crucial to her character by the messy delivery; the message is lost among narrative noise that wasn't there before and it's so uncharacteristic of a game that otherwise is sharp in how it presents its characters. In my case, there was also an instance where the way the story unfolded and a character behaved contradicted how the actions I had taken up until that point dictated it should have played out. Of course, all of this is open to interpretation and perhaps some will find meaning where I couldn't, but having to untangle a story in a desperate bid to make sense of it isn't what I wanted to be doing when the journey was complete.
Thankfully, what Final Fantasy Rebirth succeeds at eclipses what it fumbles. It's a superbly designed gameplay experience that instills a sense of freedom while also making exploration rewarding in a meaningful way. Refined gameplay that makes character synergy a focal point breathes new life into the slick and satisfying combat, and all the while it reinforces the underlying themes of the story. As a game that has the unenviable task of living up to one of the strongest legacies in the medium, it is a worthy second chapter. Whether Square Enix can bring it all together in the third and final part will be the subject of much discussion from here on out. Just like at Destiny's Crossroads, an unknown future beckons once again, and anything is still possible.
Skull and Bones doesn't make a good first impression. Given its troubled development, this isn't the least bit surprising; it's tough to approach Ubisoft's latest without a heavy dose of trepidation. Nonetheless, after six separate delays, several scrapped concepts, and 11 years in development hell, the game's opening hours fail to put Skull and Bones' best foot forward, instead indulging in its very worst aspects. The gradual prevalence of combat does marginally improve things, particularly once your options open up and you're able to tinker with your ship and its various weaponry, but this isn't enough to save it from the dregs of mediocrity. Forget about scurvy; this swashbuckling adventure is beset with a severe case of live-service insipidity.
Skull and Bones' tutorial preamble kicks things off by making sure you know how to talk to NPCs and cut down trees. If your idea of pirating on the high seas revolves around the kind of resource-gathering found in most survival games, then you're in luck. In truth, this aspect isn't quite as egregious as it sounds, even if mining rocks and chopping down trees makes little sense when you're confined to the deck of a pirate ship. The main issue is that this is the first example of the game's insistence on making you perform menial busywork. There is some on-foot stuff, but landlubbers be damned, this simply amounts to chatting to vendors and quest-givers, with the occasional buried treasure thrown in for good measure. Skull and Bones might exist because of Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag, but the only similarities between the two pirating games occur in their naval combat.
It's difficult to discuss this aspect of the game without delving into comparisons with Black Flag, despite the 11-year gap between the two titles. Unleashing a volley of cannonballs into the starboard of an enemy ship is the strongest part of Skull and Bones' seafaring ventures, but it still strips away much of what made Black Flag such a fantastic experience. That game was a power fantasy with a kinetic rhythm to its combat. There was never a moment of downtime as you utilized your ship's broadside cannons, mortar, flaming barrels, and swivel cannons to pepper the enemy with a constant barrage of naval fireworks, outmaneuvering towering Man O' Wars by dropping and raising the sails on a dime to produce some exhilarating moments. Skull and Bones contains more depth than Black Flag, with multiple ships to sail and a bevy of customization options letting you outfit your vessel with rockets, ballistas, fire-spewing contraptions, and more, but it's nowhere near as fun.
There's simply no flow to Skull and Bones' combat. After discharging a salvo of cannon fire, you're left waiting for a lengthy cooldown timer to tick by before being able to fire again. You can maneuver your ship to fire the bow or stern cannons, but ship movement is slow and plodding, and raising and lowering the sails is so sluggish that it completely kills the pace of battle. You could argue that this decrease in speed is more realistic, but considering the ghost ships and giant sea monsters roaming the waters--not to mention the cannons that can heal other players--I don't think realism was on the table. Once an enemy ship is on its last legs, you can also get beside it and board the upper deck, resulting in a quick cutscene of your crew getting ready to pounce. This earns you extra loot but is a completely automated process, so don't expect to hop aboard and engage in melee fisticuffs yourself. It's understandable why, considering this is a multiplayer game where boarding would render you a sitting duck, but it does lose that exciting element. On the whole, combat isn't atrocious and can be compelling at times, but it's a step back compared to an 11-year-old game, and it doesn't take long for repetition to kick in.
Even sailing the open waters is frequently a chore. Your ship has a stamina bar that limits you from going full pelt unless you have a stockade of food on hand to consistently replenish it. This seemingly exists just to justify the most basic survival mechanics, forcing you to intermittently gather and cook food. You also have to contend with the wind, which grants you one or two extra knots when behind your sails but reduces your speed by about four knots when blowing against them. This might not sound like a big deal, but it creates an imbalance that favors irritation over joy, ensuring that traversal is often a slog. So much of my time was spent fighting against the wind that I really could've done with a Wind Waker.
Before you can reach this point, however, you need to gather enough resources to upgrade from the starting Dhow to an actual sea-faring ship. This is easy enough: Cut down enough acacia trees and you can construct your first vessel. From here on out, a significant percentage of your playtime will be spent accumulating various resources to upgrade your ship. If you want a new cannon, for instance, you need to purchase the blueprint from wherever it's being sold, then fill out a checklist of required materials, attaining them by sinking merchant ships, gathering them from the land itself, or purchasing them from specific vendors. The general location of each material is marked on your map, which is a nice touch, but the entire process is glacial and repetitive, especially when you have to repeat it dozens and dozens of times just to increase your damage numbers.
The only resistance you might encounter comes from other players, though not in the way you would expect. Skull and Bones is an always-online open-world game. You can play solo or with up to two other players, and you'll occasionally see like-minded pirates when sailing across the Indian Ocean--as denoted by the usernames floating above their sails. Engaging with these ships is out of the question unless you're in a designated PvP event, but you do have the opportunity to assist your fellow pirates in sinking enemy vessels, and you both gain the loot. Coming across someone in the midst of battle, lending a helping hand, and then shooting off a complementary firework is the only example I can give of a fun emergent moment occurring on the high seas.
The only other interaction, of sorts, happens when gathering resources. The availability of resources is tied to the game's servers rather than your character, so it's possible to arrive at an area and find the land barren because another player has already picked it clean. This might only happen to you three or four times throughout the entire game, and the respawn timer on these resources has recently been reduced from an agonizing 60 seconds to a slightly more palatable 30 seconds. As nitpicky as that sounds, this design choice speaks to one of the ways in which Skull and Bones' online elements are underbaked and often frustrating.
One such example is World Events, which are co-op activities that occasionally appear on the map, usually involving a fleet of enemy ships or a particularly tough vessel you need to destroy to earn unique rewards. You can call for help during these events, sending a message to every other player on the server, but there's no way for anyone to actually respond, other than by physically traveling to where the event is taking place. You can fast travel, but you need to be on land to do so, then hope you've unlocked a fast travel point close enough to the event. Co-op would be more prevalent if players could instantly respond to a distress call and jump into the thick of the action, but in its current state, all of my pleas for help fell on deaf ears. The co-op aspect just feels disconnected.
Cutthroat Cargo Hunt runs into similar issues with Skull and Bones' misguided multiplayer approach. This is a PvP event in which players fight to steal precious cargo from a merchant ship and then deliver it to a designated outpost. What initially starts as a small-scale battle to sink the merchant and snatch their goods quickly evolves into a frantic cat-and-mouse race as one player attempts to outrun the rest. It's a decent idea for a snappy PvP mode, although the first time I tried it, I was killed by AI ships from a completely separate event that happened to pass by at the same time. Once I respawned, the rest of the players were so far ahead of me that I had no chance of catching up.
My next attempt revealed an even more glaring issue that's tied to how groups work. If you're in a group with other players, joining a PvP event doesn't automatically bring your teammates with you. Usually, this would just be an irritating oversight, but in Skull of Bones, these other players are still able to interfere. I came up against a twosome--one player who was part of the event and one who wasn't--who worked together to achieve victory. The player who wasn't in the event could still ram other players off course and use healing items to keep their friend alive, and there was nothing anyone could do about it because players outside of PvP events are immune to damage. This is an overlooked loophole that renders the whole mode hopeless if you're playing against people willing to exploit it.
Helm missions, on the other hand, are introduced partway through the campaign and involve contraband delivery. By acquiring sugar cane and poppy from liaisons or by sinking Rogue faction ships, you can manufacture both rum and opium to sell for Pieces of Eight--a separate endgame currency that differs from the regular silver you accrue from defeating enemies and completing quests. In order to sell these illicit goods, you need to deliver them to outposts, which deactivates fast travel and spawns dozens of Rogue faction ships that will chase you down in an attempt to steal the goods for themselves.
The problem this creates is that these gangs of high-level ships attack every player, not just the one with a delivery contract. This makes getting anywhere more frustrating than it should be, especially when you can't dock because you're locked into combat, forcing you to destroy every enemy or die trying. This is a particular problem for new players, with some unable to exit the starting outpost without getting blown to smithereens. Fortunately, Ubisoft says it's working on a patch to fix this issue, but it's a debilitating problem for the game at the time of writing.
The main campaign consists of quests where you're tasked with either destroying specific enemy ships or attaining resources and delivering them to different outposts. Occasionally, you'll be asked to attack a fort or settlement, which involves shooting at tanky guard towers and waves of ships, but there isn't much more to the unimaginative mission design than this. Once you've completed all of these quests, the Helm becomes your hub for Skull and Bones' endgame loop. The entire premise of this is to attain enough Pieces of Eight to purchase high-end gear, but the whole process is an exercise in time management. After taking over various manufacturers, you need to continue fulfilling delivery orders every hour, then spend roughly 40 minutes sailing around the map to collect your Coins of Eight every three to six hours in real-world time. It's a lot to juggle, and all of it is mundane busywork with little payoff. Maybe this will improve once new seasonal content launches, but right now, the endgame is as dull as everything that preceded it.
Skull and Bones has its moments, but these brief snapshots don't encompass even half of the full experience. Everything that was great about Black Flag has been ripped out to accommodate tedious live-service elements and a half-baked multiplayer that makes you feel disconnected from other players. Some of its more egregious issues will hopefully be fixed in future updates, but it would still take an entire overhaul to salvage the game's core mechanics and overreliance on banal, repetitive activities. It's disappointing that this is the outcome after an 11-year wait, but Skull and Bones is teetering on the edge of confinement in Davy Jones's Locker.
Helldivers 2 sees you step into the patriotic boots of the titular fighting force, lowly grunts on the frontlines of an intergalactic war in defense of Super Earth. Missions take place on randomly generated planets, ranging from ice-covered tundras to lush jungles. You and your squad have a set amount of time to complete your main objective and any optional assignments, needing to successfully extract to bring any collected goodies back with you. Though you're armed with the usual weapons of war found in shooters (primary and secondary weapons, grenades, and healing syringes), your main means of dealing big damage and supporting your squad are the stratagems you can call in, such as powerful machine guns or explosive air strikes.
Stratagems make you a juggernaut of destruction, allowing you to call in absurdly powerful weapons to devastate anything in your path. Having the right one on hand can save a mission, but Helldivers 2 never punishes you for what you choose to bring into a fight--if you have a favorite, chances are it will always be useful in some capacity. They never make the game too easy, either--limited uses and timers restrict just how often you can call in the big guns, encouraging you to rely on your allies while you wait for your stratagems to recharge. Plus, there are a lot of enemies to fight in each mission, swarming you at a moment's notice. Calling in an airstrike and getting a 15-enemy kill streak feels amazing, but it doesn't change that once it's over there could still be another 20 enemies to clean up. The stratagems only get you so far--at some point, you have to get good at shooting with the normal weapons too, incentivizing you to improve and not just rely on a series of explosive hardware.
The stratagems are delightfully varied in terms of what they bring to the table, though it's primarily all through the lens of blowing stuff up in different ways. There are a few outliers--the jetpack and energy dome shield are notable examples--but most stratagems boil down to hurting enemies. This isn't inherently bad, but it is a little limiting for players who want to take on more supportive roles in the makeup of their squad. As a live-service game, these types of stratagems could be coming in a future update. For now, however, the make-up of the stratagems ensures each mission is typically only won by delivering the most pain as quickly as possible.
To its credit, Helldivers 2 leans into this notion, with a humorous narrative tone reminiscent of Starship Troopers. Death is a cheap and common occurrence--friendly fire is always on and Helldivers 2's assortment of robotic and giant bug enemies don't mess around. The general vibe of each mission is that you're expected to die a lot and that giving your life for the glory of Super Earth is something to be proud of. With that being the case, why would you offer the player many tools by which they could potentially shield an ally, redirect a threat, or better escape a bad situation? I don't necessarily disagree with that notion, but I still can't stop myself from wishing Helldivers 2 had more opportunities to help preserve and protect the lives of my fellow soldiers, especially on the harder difficulties where each Helldivers' life suddenly becomes quite valuable. It's a little frustrating trying to stay alive on the game's toughest difficulties when there's not much in the game that helps you do that.
Humor is Helldivers 2's strongest asset. The jokes sprinkled into the narrative elements are hit-or-miss, but the very nature of how dangerous you are to your allies creates some of the most hilarious moments I've ever had in a shooter. Whether it's an ally accidentally stepping into the path of a stray sniper bullet, one teammate purposively sacrificing another by tossing a beacon on their position to call in an air strike to blow up the encroaching enemy horde, or a turret mistakenly marking a teammate for violent deletion, every session I've had of playing Helldivers 2 has left me wheezing with laughter. And, of course, the tears in my eyes inevitably distract me long enough that I do something stupid, leading to me or my teammate dying in another hilarious display of explosive carnage. The non-stop slapstick humor is often punctuated by the Helldivers screaming that it's all in the name of democracy or that the enemy is about to get an explosive sip of "liber-tea." It's so stupid. And yet it's the ridiculousness of the whole thing that makes it all the more hilarious--even friendly fire, a usually infuriating feature in other shooters--is reduced to an absurd joke in Helldivers 2, as you can easily call an ally back in as an equally disposable soldier. Just be careful not to get crushed by the drop pod delivering your backup.
Shooting in Helldivers 2 feels great, too. Even if you can't always stay alive, at least you'll go out satisfyingly blasting enemies into puddles. Assault rifles and submachine guns puncture enemies in gooey explosions, shotguns carve through armor with lethal thumps, and sniper rifles slice through targets with lethal precision. Every weapon in Helldivers 2 feels suitably dangerous to fire, and an assortment of enemy resistances balances things out to keep any one firearm from feeling frustratingly useless or boringly overpowered--everything has a purpose, and it accomplishes that purpose well. There's simultaneously a sense of satisfaction to mulling over your ideal loadout, and comfort in knowing there's no real wrong answer to what you pick, provided you don't outfit yourself with a bunch of weapons and stratagems that are all geared toward addressing the same exact problem. And even then, having up to three fellow Helldivers playing with you could account for that shortcoming.
Helldivers 2 is clearly meant to be experienced with communicative allies at your side. Though you can enjoy Helldivers 2 solo, the game is far more enjoyable in co-op, working alongside a team to accomplish more tasks during your limited time. You also earn more rewards for extracting from missions with larger teams and have a greater number of lives within bigger groups. Companions can make certain weapons easier to use as well--a rocket launcher that's irritatingly slow to reload on its own is made a lot better when an ally picks up the pack of extra rockets and follows you around to load them for you, cutting down the reload time by a significant margin.
This focus on co-op is why I'm bummed about the game's ping system. It's not terrible--it gets the job done in most cases, like pointing out enemies or tagging objectives. But it can't handle more complex forms of communication. As an example: I've been on missions with strangers where one Helldiver needed to watch a terminal to communicate to the other players how much they needed to adjust a satellite dish on the other end of the compound. It's a relatively simple puzzle that's easily handled via microphone, but none of us were using them, and the shortcomings of the ping system were quite apparent at that moment. Luckily, through a little bit of guesswork and trial and error, our squad was able to brute force the solution--one Helldiver kept moving the satellite dish randomly while another just waited at the terminal to push a button the moment everything happened to align. We were playing on an easier difficulty as well so it wasn't too tricky for the final two squad members to hold the line while the objective played out. But Helldivers 2 isn't as forgiving on the tougher difficulties, and you earn extra rewards for completing missions quickly, so it's irritating to sometimes be held up solely because no one is able to adequately communicate with each other. If there's going to be a ping system, it should account for every objective type you encounter in the game.
Speaking of, Helldivers 2 has a good assortment of mission variety. On their own, each aspect of missions feels a little samey. The assortment of murderous bugs and clanking robots begins to bleed together as a monotonous evil force (especially the bugs--there's more enemy variety on the robot front). There also isn't much randomization to the topography of the environments to make each planet feel drastically different, and there are only a dozen or so objectives and sub-objectives in the game. But Helldivers 2 does a terrific job of randomizing all of these elements just enough to make missions feel mostly distinct. Two back-to-back missions might task you with tracking down launch codes and then successfully firing a rocket, for instance, but the first may be on an icy planet that affects how long equipment overheats and sees you contending with armor-plated robots on the way to the objective while the latter may be in a fog-filled jungle that greatly lowers visibility and surrounds you with flammable foliage, making it trickier to use fire against the very flammable bugs stalking your path. At a glance, you're just doing the same objective over again. But these small adjustments to the mission parameters culminate in both playing out quite differently.
Helldivers 2 is just a really good time, and it banks on that being enough to convince you to stick around for a long time.
To that end, Helldivers 2 accomplishes the day-one dream for a live-service game: You want to keep playing it. Missions aren't exactly quick--the shortest takes about 10 minutes while the longest is closer to 40--but they don't feel like a slog because they aren't cookie-cutter copies of each other. Plus, there's such a thrill at pulling off a successful assignment and seeing your deeds add up to enough points to buy a new upgrade or firearm or piece of armor. And then, if you're like me, you immediately want to jump into another mission to try out the new goodie, only to do well enough to potentially unlock something else. Helldivers 2 isn't stingy with the unlocks, letting you quickly start nabbing new airstrikes, turrets, guns, grenades, and silly victory poses.
Though there is a premium reward track and in-game store, there's plenty of good stuff in the standard free track. Completing missions nets you Medals that you can spend on new weapons, armor, poses, and banners in both the free and premium reward tracks, as well as Requisition Slips for new stratagems. Meanwhile, the items in the store take Super Credits--this currency can occasionally be randomly found in missions but is more easily obtained by either dropping real money or spending Medals in both the free and premium reward tracks. Finally, there are Samples, a currency that is exclusively found in missions, often in optional locations off the beaten path. You can spend these to unlock permanent upgrades, like granting quicker cooldown times on certain stratagems.
This is too many in-game currencies spread out over too many in-game menus making it all too easy to lose track of what unlocks what. However, it's great that all of these currencies are at least set up so that everything in Helldivers 2 can be unlocked simply by playing the game--even the premium reward track is unlocked with Super Credits, meaning you can earn it without having to drop a dime. There's no time limit on Helldivers 2's reward tracks either as Arrowhead has said each one will stick around forever. This decision graciously lessens the pressure to stay on the grind day-to-day or drop more money.
Using just the free track, I managed to unlock three new firearms, a new grenade, and a new victory pose within the first few hours of play. So far, my progress has been pretty consistent. Every time you complete a mission at a certain difficulty, you unlock the next level, and each subsequent level carries the promise of greater rewards, allowing you to maintain the speed at which you're unlocking new equipment. And when you begin to hit a lull, that's usually a good indicator that you've unlocked and played enough that it's time to move on to the next difficulty level. Presumably, I'll hit a skill ceiling eventually that stalls how quickly I can unlock Helldivers 2's late-level weapons and armor but it hasn't happened yet. In the meantime, I'm going to keep enjoying the game.
The only aspect of Helldivers 2 I'm still unsure about is the Game Master, the force responsible for reacting to how people are playing to make certain objectives harder or easier, adjust the strategies of enemies, and curate the overarching war effort. As advertised, this is done by members of the Arrowhead team secretly monitoring missions and doing their best to respond to the data they're receiving--acting similarly to a Game Master of a tabletop game running a combat encounter. Eventually, the Game Master will even direct the narrative direction of Helldivers 2, responding to how well the community bands together to dictate how the war effort progresses. Helldivers 2 has only been out for a week as I'm writing this review, so there hasn't been much time to see how the Game Master feature will work--I assume that larger, more easily identifiable adjustments will take time to implement and anything the game has done for me so far has just been too minor to note. Regardless, it's just too soon to make a judgment call on whether or not the Game Master feature adds anything meaningful to the experience of playing the game.
In the ever-crowded live-service shooter landscape, Helldivers 2 manages to carve out a place for itself with its fun narrative tone, punchy combat, intense firefights, and rewarding progression track. Helldivers 2 has plenty of tense moments against gargantuan bugs and hulking tank-like machines, but the entire experience is largely meant to make you feel good and have a laugh with friends, a refreshing notion for how darkly serious most major shooters are today. This provides Helldivers 2 with a sensation of potential longevity and lasting power I haven't felt from most new live-service games in recent years. Helldivers 2 is just a really good time, and it banks on that being enough to convince you to stick around for a long time. Frankly, I'm sold--it's the most fun I've had in a new shooter in years.
In my personal life, I loathe driving, but video games have a way of making it more fun. Rarely does a video game make driving as engaging and enjoyable as Pacific Drive does, even though it can be much more challenging than any real-life drive I've ever taken. With a ton of gameplay depth, an intoxicating atmosphere, and a New Weird story I obsessed over, the debut game from Ironwood Studios dazzled me even though it occasionally left me stranded in the breakdown lane.
In both story and gameplay terms, I've not played a game much like Pacific Drive before. Stuck in a mysterious section of the Pacific Northwest called the Olympic Exclusion Zone (OEZ) that's been closed off for years due to science-defying activity, you're meant to find a way out of a region known to swallow almost anyone who enters it. You'll do this in roguelite runs in which you drive a station wagon through a semi-randomly generated level or series of levels, collect crafting gear and other vital resources, and then race against a storm to get to a spacetime-disrupting "gateway" that propels you back to the safety of an abandoned auto shop, where you'll deposit your resources and use them to improve your vehicle and character for subsequent runs.
For more than 20 hours, this formula never wore out its welcome with me, despite some truly grueling situations that sometimes felt insurmountable. By way of great attention to detail and depth, Pacific Drive becomes a challenge early on and consistently raises the bar even as you markedly improve your car. It feels like it unfolds--as do many roguelites--to the cadence of two steps forward, one step back.
You won't just have to worry about obvious car problems like flat tires, though they'll occur often in the early-game while your tires are no better than would-be spares. You'll need to ensure the car's body, like side panels and doors, are in good condition so that they may protect you from the often-irradiated OEZ. You'll need to be wary of the times when you get out of your car, as various hazards, like towers giving off jolts of electricity and hunks of metal that fly around like UFOs, are openly hostile to you. And as the game goes on, the list of these "anomalies," or enemy entities/events, only gets longer.
One fantastic element of these anomalies is their foreign designs and behaviors are so hard to decipher that it causes me to almost want to test them so I could better understand their nature and later know how to overcome them more wisely. But there's a simpler way: You can scan basically anything in the game to learn about it, from scraps of resources to anomalies, and even different kinds of stranded cars and trucks you'll see in each level.
But even then, scanning them only reveals an anomaly's behavior through weird excerpts of conversations you weren't present for, demanding you deduce the important traits of an anomaly from something out of context rather than simply scanning it like a video game's detective vision and immediately understanding it.
It's not just the uncertain nature of each anomaly, but the volume of them in later levels that makes each run a highway to hell. Needing to veer off-road to dodge one anomaly may leave you ill-equipped for the dirt path ahead, which is likely inhabited by other threats of its own.
Likewise, the game's true 24-hour clock means if you arrive at a stretch of road in the middle of the night without working headlights, it's going to be an uphill climb--including perhaps literally--to get out alive. Driving A to B is, in simplest terms, the nature of Pacific Drive, but in practice, it feels more like driving A to W to R to D to M, then finally reaching the temporary safety of B, before repeating that process until you hit the credits.
The trick to overcoming the high volume and wide variety of obstacles is to go on runs without your primary objective in mind. Sometimes, you'll need to back-burner that next major story beat to instead trek out in search of metal scraps, rubber, or one of dozens of other resources. Like with anomalies, scanning these objects can help you understand them better, including where to get more of them so you can eventually stockpile enough to make dramatic improvements to your car.
But the game is paced so well that, whenever you're feeling more durable behind the wheel of your slowly improving jalopy, it steps up its difficulty to match. Just as I'd gotten used to consistently having durable tires and working headlights, the game would throw new anomalies at me challenging me in other ways, like the life of my battery, or the rate at which the world would collapse in on itself.
With well over 100 different blueprints and upgrades to research, many of which will both practically and cosmetically improve your auto shop or car, the depth on offer is super satisfying. I loved bolting new contraptions onto my car such as expanded storage space, extra fuel tanks, and a resource radar that pings items I'm in search of not just because each one had an obvious and instantaneous benefit while driving, but because it turned my run-down wagon into, eventually, something akin to the Ghostbusters' Ecto-1. The marrying of gameplay enhancements and visual style makes this part of Pacific Drive feel like a traditional RPG where I may equip armor that both suits my build and looks really awesome.
And make no mistake, Pacific Drive is a true RPG--a caRPG, if you will. Though initial improvements tend to be universally advantageous--off-road tires are an upgrade over summer tires without any compromises, for example--later unlocks allow you to prepare for some levels' most notable obstacles by leaning into specific builds, like a faster car that may burn gas more quickly, or protecting against radiation over electricity when you notice before you depart that the road ahead may suffer a hastened storm, increasing the likelihood that your Geiger counter will sing like the radio.
Speaking of the radio, the music is excellent, as the custom-made licensed tracks from Pacific Northwestern bands play directly into the game's strong sense of atmosphere. You can change the radio station whenever you'd like, including turning it off, but I found the music reliably makes the game better, with genres ranging from haunting ethereal vocalizing to indie folk rock to even a few synthwave bangers that collectively refuse to tie the game to any specific era, thereby making the whole setting even stranger.
It's said to take place a few decades ago, but a recurring find in the game's story are audio logs that play much like a Serial-style investigative podcast, further highlighting the anachronistic nature of the Zone. That, tied with the earworm-heavy music and routinely Night Vale-esque radio broadcasts from other lost souls in the OEZ turn this game into something extremely creepy, even though it's not exactly a horror game. At hours one and 20 alike, I was engrossed in the process of getting out of my car, dashing through shadows to scavenge a nearby building, then trying to get back before I or my car was assailed by the Zone's oddities.
It's a world that feels composed of many of my favorite narrative touchpoints from other media. I liken the OEZ most obviously to Night Vale; there exists a DHARMA Initiative-like scientific body at the heart of it all; and I couldn't help but recall The X-Files or the last act of 10 Cloverfield Lane whenever I crept through the woods dodging alien-like enemies. Pacific Drive feels as if it's made by people who love these things like I do, but it never feels like a copy of any of them. Its world is its own, ultimately, and one I'll not forget just like those others. I've chased down audio logs and other optional story insights in this game with an enthusiasm I've previously reserved for Remedy's games.
With so many upgrades to choose from, so many resources to scavenge, and so many semi-randomized threats to be wary of, the game's greatest flaw is, oddly enough, sometimes a strength, too. On many occasions, I'd feel lost, both in terms of which upgrade was most important to emphasize next, but also how to upgrade certain things. I also had my main story progress halted for a few days while I tried to resolve, eventually with the developer's aid, why I couldn't seem to find a route to my critical-path destination. In the end, a lack of clarity on the map was to blame.
Pacific Drive revels in being hard to grasp, but sometimes it feels like it's unintentionally obtuse, or maybe just didn't know when enough was enough. Its opaqueness is an obvious strength when I'd enter into a level and not understand what I was witnessing before my very eyes, but it was less endearing when I sometimes felt like I didn't have any answers to my questions in a simple gameplay progression sense.
I once deposited a great deal of my crafting supplies into a machine that I then learned destroyed them, as it's meant to break down bigger pieces into those usable parts. The game didn't warn me or adequately explain beforehand that my already small pieces would be "broken down" into dust. Pacific Drive lets you mess up like this pretty frequently, though while you're at the shop, you can combat this by saving often so you can load a backup if needed. I didn't make this particular mistake twice, but even once felt like a harsh penalty. Such halts didn't stop Pacific Drive from being one of my favorite games of the year so far, but with just a little bit more guidance, I think I'd have felt a lot more enjoyment.
To its credit, the game is loaded with difficulty-tuning options that often target its own punishing difficulty and can make it more digestible. You can do things like make nights go by faster, remove damage to your car or character, or even have it so that a failed run doesn't remove the would-be lost supplies when you get back to the auto shop to try again, among other benefits. I appreciate these options as they're going to mean more people can finish this game without the constant threat of their car, and intriguing story progression, breaking down.
With its wonderful depth in both story and gameplay, Pacific Drive is an early hit in 2024. It sets out to create a world that fits comfortably in the New Weird genre but brings its own style and substance to it. The road from unreliable bucket of bolts to souped-up charger is a fascinating one whether you're unraveling the game's many mysteries or improving your wagon for its next road trip. Though the game can be especially hard to decipher, difficulty options help to counter some of its more overwhelming aspects. I'll stick to bikes in my day-to-day life through the actual northwest, but in Pacific Drive, I'm up for another joy ride through one hell of a winding road.
The original Mario Vs. Donkey Kong on Game Boy Advance was a victim of its own success. A successor to the stellar and underrated Game Boy version of Donkey Kong, it brought back many of the same puzzle-platforming mechanics with adorable mini-Mario toys serving as stage collectibles and story MacGuffins. But the minis ultimately became the stars of the sub-series and took over its identity. We've received a steady stream of Lemmings-like spin-offs since then, centered mostly around guiding minis through trap-filled stages. While those games were charming enough, they never quite recaptured the magic of Donkey Kong on Game Boy or Mario Vs. Donkey Kong on GBA. Thanks to a combination of quality-of-life improvements and visual flair that showcase what made those older games special, this Switch remake gives that original design ethos a new lease on life.
The minis are the impetus for the story, though, which begins when Donkey Kong spots the little clockwork toys and gets an insatiable appetite for them. He invades the Mario toy factory and steals all he can get his mitts on, and Mario--apparently concerned about his licensed merch--chases after the ape to recover them. Donkey Kong isn't the villain, per se, but more like a childlike, not-too-bright antagonist in an old cereal commercial.
The puzzle-platforming stages have Mario traversing through a series of traps and enemies to reach a mini-Mario in a vending capsule. You can collect a series of colored packages, carefully tucked away in hard-to-reach places, as a bonus in each stage. Once you've completed a series of six themed stages recovering the minis, there's a follow-the-leader stage where you guide them to the exit, attempting not to lose any along the way, and having them collect alphabet blocks (spelling "TOY," naturally). Then there's a boss stage against Donkey Kong, and the more minis you successfully guided in the previous stage, the more pips of health you have for the battle. Rinse, repeat. It's a nice little loop that allows each stage's goals to feed into the others.
Mario's nimble acrobatics feel natural and intuitive almost immediately. This isn't quite as smooth as a traditional Mario platformer, since it's built to facilitate complex puzzles that often involve picking up and moving platforming elements or enemies, but it's a very well-made middle-ground. Sometimes a puzzle solution will require some quick platforming precision, especially when you need to drop a key (starting a timer for when it will disappear) and then traverse the stage to get back to it. More often, though, simply knowing the solution is enough, and it doesn't ask for quick reflexes. That said, sometimes its visual similarity to a Mario platformer would play tricks on me--I had to learn the hard lesson that unlike in Mario 3, you can't actually stomp on a cannonball, for example.
One oddity is the antiquated presence of lives. I know this is a Mario staple, and I think there's still room in Mario platformer design for it, but it serves little purpose here. When you run out of lives, you hit the Restart button and continue where you left off, just like you would continue with an extra life. If you happen to have already passed through a gate, an extra life will save you a little bit of legwork getting to that checkpoint, but not much, and some stages don't have a checkpoint gate at all. There is barely any penalty, so in many cases there's no distinction between using a life and using a continue. So why have them at all? The anachronism seems to exist mostly to have a prize in the extra life bonus stages. But after realizing that there was no point, I stopped even bothering with those bonus stages.
This version of Mario Vs. Donkey Kong expands on the original with two entirely new worlds, making eight standard worlds altogether. Those two, called Merry Mini-Land and Slippery Summit, are peppered in between the older worlds and feel right at home alongside the others. Merry Mini-Land has a theme park motif with a heavy focus on riding wind currents, while Slippery Summit uses the classic Mario staple of sliding across ice to great effect in puzzle solutions.
Like many recent Nintendo games, the first half is just a primer, and the structure changes significantly in the second half. You'll see credits after the first set of eight worlds, but then you begin a Zelda-like "Second Quest," journeying through the same worlds with similar (but more difficult) gimmicks and traps, this time much more focused on the minis.
In this second half, instead of just traversing through a stage as Mario, you'll have a single mini following you around. Rather than simply knowing how to navigate the traps yourself, you have to become familiar with the automatic actions of your mini companion so you can guide them to safety. As in the original game, you can also unlock a series of Expert stages that are truly fiendish mixtures of platforming precision and difficult puzzle-solving that will put your skills to the test.
Those minis-focused stages lean harder on the puzzle half of the puzzle-platformer. In the regular stages, Mario's suite of moves and platforming precision will sometimes let you cheese a method that clearly wasn't the intended puzzle solution. Guiding your mini-Mario to the goal is fully reliant on learning about their limitations and how your own actions will prompt theirs, which can be very trial-and-error as you learn the ropes and then face new stage elements and obstacles. It's still the same game, but this portion feels much different due to that one change. I didn't mind escorting the minis, but I did occasionally feel frustrated when they didn't behave the way I'd expected. But then, without fail, I would discover the actual solution to a puzzle and how my own actions had led to previously failed attempts. You don't ever have direct control over the minis, but as little automatons, you are always indirectly in control of their behaviors.
The look of the minis is a real visual treat. While the toy Marios in the original game were a rough, pixelated mess, these look clean and shiny. Even better, all of the enemies have been given a major toyetic facelift. Shy Guys and Bob-ombs have wind-up gears and plasticine seams, while Thwomps and Boos have painted-on faces that rotate to show different expressions. It's a delight seeing how these largely familiar Mario enemies have been recontextualized as little clockwork toys.
And beyond the modernizations like new stages and visual improvements, Mario Vs. Donkey Kong adds some other modern touches. A new "Casual style" smoothes over some of the difficulty by adding checkpoints with multiple lives. Rather than start a new stage from scratch when you die, you float back to the checkpoint in a little bubble. The puzzles are still difficult, but this change gives you a little more leniency for trial-and-error and grabbing collectibles, since you no longer have to perform one perfect run where you get them all together.
In the two-player mode, Mario is joined by Toad with a shared pool of lives, which at least gives some utility to the lives mechanic since one of you dying in a stage doesn't automatically start you over. Instead, you float in a bubble, similar to the Casual style setting, while the other player is free to continue navigating traps and puzzle elements. Toad is noticeably faster when it comes to some actions like climbing ropes, but he's otherwise identical and eschews the trend of making its secondary player function as an easy mode.
Mario vs. Donkey Kong feels very retro in certain respects. It's designed to be played in short bursts, which can feel anachronistic on a modern handheld hybrid that's perfectly suited for long play sessions. But it's also a throwback in the best ways, recapturing the clever aha moments of puzzle-platforming that made its predecessors so memorable, all while packing distinct visual improvements and quality-of-life tweaks that bring out its charm like never before.
It can't be a coincidence that Banishers: Ghosts of New Eden is launching just a day before Valentine's Day. As its title suggests, the latest game from Life is Strange developer Don't Nod is brimming with ghost hunting and spooky happenings. Yet, at its core, it's also a surprisingly tender love story about life, death, and sacrifice. This isn't the most well-trodden path for an action-RPG, and that's just one of a few key areas where Banishers is atypical for its genre. Between outbursts of stiff, run-of-the-mill action, it's the quieter moments where the game comes into its own. Like Vampyr, one of the studio's previous games, delving into various characters' lives and making tough choices with far-reaching consequences are what make the game memorable.
Banishers begins with dual protagonists Antea Duarte and Red Mac Raith arriving on the sandy shores of the fictional island of New Eden, Massachusetts. It's 1695, and the pair of eponymous banishers are hired spirit hunters entrusted with dispelling the ghosts and specters that still linger in our plane of existence, trapped between the living and the afterlife. New Eden, you see, has been afflicted with a malevolent curse. Hauntings are frequent, the weather is perpetually cold and dreary, crops are dying, livestock has perished, and the island's settlers are in desperate need of help. With so many lingering effects, this is no simple curse, and while attempting to banish a particularly powerful spirit, Antea is tragically killed as Red is plunged into the freezing depths of the ocean and left for dead.
Upon waking up on the opposite side of the island, the grief-stricken Red is soon reunited with his fallen lover. Antea is now one of the ghostly apparitions she would previously hunt, forcing her to wrestle with the fact that she's become the one thing she hates. From this point on, you can swap between both characters on the fly. You're then thrust into making the first of many choices you'll have to consider as you're asked to swear an important oath. Will you accept Antea's fate and ascend her soul, letting her move on to the afterlife, or sacrifice the living in order to resurrect her? Initially, I picked the former, for as much as I wanted to revive Antea, killing the settlers who asked for help never sat right with me. Morally speaking, it also seemed like a pretty clear-cut choice. Then I started meeting New Eden's denizens, gradually delving into their lives and uncovering their darkest secrets, and my stance started to change.
As you traverse the island, journeying back to New Eden Town with the aim of both stopping the curse and retrieving Antea's body, you'll encounter numerous settlers who, for one reason or another, are haunted by tormented spirits that can't yet move on. Figuring out why is your first order of business, which typically revolves around talking to a haunted individual before exploring an area or two to gather clues--perhaps rummaging through a house scattered with notes or scouring a cliffside for a dead body. Spirits linger because they have unfinished business-- their reasoning can be malicious or altruistic. It's your job to suss out the malefactors of both a supernatural and tangible variety. Once you've done so, you have a crucial decision to make. You can place the blame on the living by sacrificing them, thus letting Antea feed on their essence to aid her revival; you can ascend the ghostly spirit, serenely moving them onto the afterlife; or you can banish the ghost, condemning them to an eternity of suffering.
Dismantling all of the details to reach one of these conclusions isn't as involved as one might hope, however. Antea's supernatural powers let you glimpse into the past and unveil trails to follow, but there's no sort of deduction or interrogation process, and it's impossible to progress without finding all of the signposted clues, so gathering evidence isn't particularly engaging from a gameplay perspective. You're essentially playing out the solution rather than discovering and putting the pieces together yourself. The stories that are slowly revealed still have a way of grabbing your attention, even if player agency is limited, but it's disappointing that these moments boil down to simply finding every glowing interactable in a given area.
The hauntings themselves broach a variety of diverse subjects, ranging from jealousy and the repercussions of war to slavery and forbidden love. Each one is generally well-written, too, often latching onto a moral grey area that makes it difficult to arrive at a straightforward decision. Admittedly, this isn't always the case, and there are some hauntings that present what should be an easy choice, like when dealing with racially motivated murder and other heinous crimes. Yet, the central conflict of Antea's fate still manages to give pause for thought. There are five possible endings to Banishers' story, so while each haunting might offer a binary choice, there's a cumulative effect to each decision that impacts how the narrative pans out. Even when the guilty party is indisputable, you might opt to spare those culpable for the sake of your deceased partner. This adds an interesting dynamic to each choice as you wrestle with all sorts of ethical conundrums.
One of the reasons this is so effective is because Antea and Red's relationship is complex and feels genuine. Red might look like your typically gruff action hero, yet there's a softer side to him that comes out in the quieter moments he shares with Antea. He might be a veteran of war, but he has wrinkles of co-dependency and is often informed by his emotions. Antea is the more experienced of the two banishers and rarely lets emotions get in the way of her work, so the two contrasting styles play off each other in compelling ways. There are flashes of levity between the two as well, with the couple sharing inside jokes and providing insights into their shared history. Occasionally, the narrative also touches on deeper themes, such as Antea's Cuban upbringing and Red's remorseful past, that add additional layers to how they interact with others. Needless to say, Banishers makes you care about Red and Antea's plight, which makes each decision all the more thought-provoking.
The other half of the game revolves around combat and exploration. Its tight third-person perspective is reminiscent of the most recent God of War games, and the action isn't too dissimilar either, offering a standard mix of light and heavy attacks, dodges, and blocks, with the latter doubling as a parry if your timing is on point. Red also has access to a rifle for ranged attacks, delivering a satisfyingly punchy shot and an era-appropriate reload time that prevents you from firing multiple bullets in quick succession. Melee combat is the primary focus, though, as you slash away at enemies using Red's trusted cutlass. The former mercenary is most effective against the angry specters you'll come across, whereas Antea excels against more tangible threats--some ghosts possess the decrepit corpses of both humans and wolves alike. Antea's combat style isn't wildly different from Red's, except she uses her fists over any kind of weaponry. She does, however, have a range of supernatural abilities at her disposal, including a distance-closing dash attack and an area-of-effect blast. These powers also translate to traversal, letting you leap across chasms and clear blocked paths once these abilities have been unlocked.
Combat is decent but never propels itself to be amongst the genre's best. There's a slight rigidity when transitioning between animations that prevents your movements during combat from flowing smoothly--contributing to a sense of inelegance--and you can usually succeed in most encounters by button-mashing your way to victory, sapping away any strategic element to combat. You do have access to a modest skill tree that lets you enhance existing abilities with various buffs, but combat doesn't evolve enough to stave off repetition in the game's latter half. By the 15-hour mark, I could've done with significantly fewer skirmishes, especially once the well of enemy types dried up.

Exploration fares slightly better, with a semi-open world that's neither too large nor too diminutive. The whole place permeates an uneasy tone with various biomes consisting of verdant forests, barren farmland, murky swamps, and cavernous mines carved into the sides of mountains. Crafting materials are often found off the beaten path, which can then be used to upgrade your equipment, and there are numerous side activities dotted across the map, including combat arenas and optional quests that typically revolve around killing or collecting something. These activities pad out the playtime but never feel necessary and are easily skipped.
Banishers' strengths lie in its storytelling and characters. These aspects--along with its combat--can't quite match the caliber of its genre-defining contemporaries, but Don't Nod differentiates Banishers from the pack by implementing the studio's signature brand of choice and consequence. It's easy to become enraptured by Antea and Red's story; shaping their relationship and who they are as a couple makes for a compelling experience. That still doesn't mean I can wholly recommend Banishers: Ghosts of New Eden, but those looking for a dark, story-driven tale of love and sacrifice won't be disappointed.
With an increasing number of them to choose from, it has become even more challenging for new metroidvania games to stand out. Those that have in recent memory all managed to establish either a distinct and enticing look to them, such as Hollow Knight, or refined a set of familiar mechanics that reinvigorates the entire formula again like last month's Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown. Ultros aspires to be spoken about in the company of these games and earns that right through an exciting blend of satisfying platforming and slick, fast combat, but also the ways in which it breaks away from the traditional mold of the metroidvania formula. It's these elements that make it truly stand out, even if some of its experimentation with form and format doesn't stick the landing.
You awake aboard a ship floating in space, unaware of how or why you're aboard, before quickly coming into contact with a variety of other alien species all carving out their own versions of idyllic life aboard the craft. A ghostly apparition that guides you through the opening moments of the game explains that there's a security measure in place to keep an all-powerful deity from escaping its sarcophagus, the very ship you've found yourself aboard, and that you'll need to sever the connection of eight beings to the system to ultimately be free. It's not long after that Ultros establishes itself as a pseudo-roguelite, with a time-looping mechanic underpinning your progression and exploration throughout the entire adventure.
These roguelite elements don't function how you might expect them to based on genre staples, however. For example, when you die, you're sent back to your last save point instead of restarting in a new loop, which firmly reminds you that Ultros is first and foremost a metroidvania at its core. Initially, a new loop is only started after you perform pivotal actions around the world, and only after you return to a central hub where the entire world is reset again. You do still have a significant portion of your progress reset, including all of your upgrades and inventory items, as well as losing your primary weapon and utility robot that stores all your other permanent mechanical upgrades. Having the latter two revoked each new loop is initially jarring as not being able to attack or double jump at the start of a loop feels foreign after a few hours utilizing both, but it does serve a purpose if you want to explore Ultros' world with a more passive approach, opening up alternative avenues to investigate if you manage to figure out how to get around. It quickly becomes trivial to reacquire these vital pieces of gear, too, with each new loop offering shorter routes to them that let you get going again quickly and avoiding a sense of frustration after making important story progress.
Ultros' greatest strength is its setting, with the strange, biomechanical sarcophagus you explore littered with fascinating biomes and small environmental stories to tell. You could be exploring an abandoned space spa built to placate inhabitants of the area of the loop they're trapped in during one run, while moving onto a foreboding labyrinth of hallways strewn with the obsessed workings of an alien hunter during another. These stand in contrast to a neon-lit collection of corridors specifically designed to act as the venue for a twisted game show, while another auburn-lit refinery pumps mysterious orange fluid around at the behest of an obsessed scientist looking for research breakthroughs where there are none.
Each of these areas is brought to life with a striking art style that effortlessly combines the sensibilities of biomechanics and the wildly colorful palette of a vivid acid trip. If you can imagine the artwork for a Tool album and the eye-searing color of Hotline Miami, you'll have an idea of what Ultros looks like consistently throughout its expansive map. Artist El Huervo, who also contributed to Hotline Miami, exhibits their distinctive style across each of Ultros' areas, which should excite you if you're familiar with their work, or make you a new fan shortly afterward. It's not just window dressing either, with this attention to detail extending to animations that move slightly out of step with what you might expect, fitting in perfectly with the oddities around them. There's one particular standout when you arrive at a hibernation pod used for saving your game; seeing the psychedelic liquid inside melt out as you slash open the glass never gets old.
Your sword and the abilities you unlock to expand your repertoire in combat help provide depth to Ultros' satisfying hack-and-slash action. Initially, you're confined to just a short two-hit basic attack and a vital slide dodge, but it doesn't take long to gain access to devastating counter-attacks that are rewarded for timely dodges, or enhanced basic strikes that can stun an enemy and leave them open to a juggle attack that lets you direct them towards another foe for bonus damage. Enemies drop parts of themselves as consumable rewards after fights, and you're encouraged to not repeat any attacks during a fight in order to maximize their healing and nutritional potency, providing optional depth should you want it. There's a particular duel against another agile hunter later in the game that showcases the harmony of all of these mechanics beautifully, given that you're required to respond to a fighter that moves and counters you in the same ways that you've been exploiting on far easier fodder.
New enemy types are consistently introduced throughout your exploration of each of Ultros' distinct hubs, each of which presents a new wrinkle to overcome without ever becoming too difficult that it breaks up the breathless and satisfying pace of each combat encounter. Upgrades accentuate aspects of combat that you engage with most, adding additional hits to certain combos while opening up new moves entirely. There are a handful that I gravitated towards most and settled in with, and by using a scarce resource to make them available at the start of each run, I often forgot about the rest of the tree entirely. Its depth doesn't fundamentally change the core concepts of Ultros' combat, nor do they become required by any difficult encounters, which can make many of them feel slightly wasted.
Each upgrade requires a certain level of nutrition be unlocked, with each of the four nutrition levels affected by fruits and monster parts you consume to restore health. The concept of increasing specific nutritional attributes to unlock physical improvements is a novel one, even if its implementation didn't create a sense of resource-management tension as I recklessly consumed any and all resources to unlock an upgrade without worrying about my ability to heal during a fight. These upgrades also get reset with each loop, unless you lock certain ones in with rare collectibles found around the map, but with each loop, it becomes easier and easier to accrue enough resources to max out the upgrade tree. Once I could lock enough upgrades in, I often ignored the rest of the tree entirely, although that changed when I had to focus on alternative ways to complete objectives that didn't just require killing everything in front of me.
There are permanent upgrades unlocked as you progress through the story, each of which is accessed through your companion robot. These persist through each loop (although you have to reacquire your companion each time) and allow you to access new areas of the map. One upgrade lets you carve through plants that would otherwise hurt you, while another lets you dig up planted seeds for reuse later. Some, like the ability to repurpose parts of one plant and splice them onto another, serve little purpose outside Ultros' most challenging puzzles, many of which are reserved for loops after you've already seen credits for the first time. It makes the limited pool feel somewhat underwhelming, as you'll likely use a combination of three out of the eight total to interact with Ultros' world as you navigate it.
Horticulture is a big part of Ultros, and perhaps one of its more confusing elements at first. One of the only friendly alien species you interact with grows lush, sprawling gardens of all kinds around the map, with each variety offering some sort of benefit. Some grow valuable fruits that can be used for healing and upgrading your abilities, while others have special abilities that let you reach new areas, similar to how character abilities tend to do the same in classic metroidvanias. Some can even alter the state of the world, growing out platforms on ledge corners so that you can access new areas or sprawling outwards and destroying an obstacle blocking access to a shortcut or new area. It's easy to think of these seeds and their respectives abilities as replacements for otherwise standard character abilities that you'd find in similar metroidvania titles, working in conjunction with the ones that you do obtain to open up new areas of the map and continue exploring. It makes the lack of clear descriptions for each a little more frustrating as a result, as it can be deflating to plant a seed and not see it reach in the way that you expect it to and, additionally, not know why. This is alleviated somewhat by an ability you obtain early on allowing you to extract and replant seeds, but it still takes longer than it should to eventually understand the intricacies of how each works in a way that makes you feel like you're properly utilizing them to get around.
Certain plants require time to properly cultivate, tying further into the loop mechanics and encouraging you to think beyond the one you're currently on. This is most evident when trying to open up shortcuts, some of which will require the full might of a robust tree trunk to split open and utilize later. What's not explicitly conveyed through level design is that some paths are entirely optional and frequently meant for later gameplay after you've acquired the ability to reset a loop at will. This can make some aspects of exploration tedious as you attempt to solve what seems like a progress-blocking puzzle with a variety of seeds, before succumbing to defeat and eventually finding a way around it later. This anecdote would likely apply to other metroidvania games and perhaps to their intrinsic design philosophies, but the best out there generally do a good job at steering a player through the world naturally while making progression feel organic and earned. Ultros does achieve that a lot of the time, but additional context to different seed abilities, ideal planting environments, and the effects of limited-use compost would have gone a long way to alleviating numerous irritating roadblocks.
Ultros ends when you've accomplished the goal it presents to you at the start, but it's evident that this is only a fraction of what its world has to offer. Core objective sites can be revisited under different circumstances to trigger new interactions, which open up whole new arrays of objectives that tie into different endings. While it's rewarding to explore Ultros throughout the core story, its thoughtful map design is specifically pronounced as you explore these additional objectives. A standout is connecting each of the biomes together with what is referred to as the "living network"--a strand of biological consciousness that originates at one point in the map and can be tethered to compatible existing structures and plants. These open up new shortcuts and tie into different endings should you extend the network to the right places, but figuring out how to spread it is its own reward. This singular goal exposes different ways of thinking around how and where you plant seeds, while also challenging you to deeply understand the fundamental construction of the map in a way that helps you appreciate the thoughtfulness of its design.
Ultros is a collection of novel ideas such as these that elevate it beyond its metroidvania underpinnings and help it stand out in the genre as something distinct. While it borrows elements from other genres to do so, it uses them thoughtfully within the context of its core design, never straying from the fundamentals of engaging exploration and rewarding progression that keep fans of this genre returning for new adventures. Its complexity can veer into frustrating territory by keeping some crucial mechanical aspects a little too vague, but it's never so detrimental that it hampers what is an otherwise engrossing adventure set within a visually memorable world--one with secrets and stories that invite you to stay well beyond your first escape, and reward you well for doing so.
Cygames has been building the Granblue Fantasy series for a decade, first with a mobile gacha-style action-RPG, then with spin-offs ranging from an anime series to a pair of 2D fighting games. Granblue Fantasy: Relink is a return to those RPG roots that attempts to retell the original story to a new audience. For the most part, the game succeeds by trimming the tale into a lean, roughly 20-hour experience, but the transition is not without its stumbles.
Granblue Fantasy: Relink follows The Captain--either Gran (male) or Djeeta (female), depending on your choice--who is the leader of a group of skybound adventurers looking for the island of Estalucia. Captain is linked via life force to Lyria, a girl with the ability to commune with Primal Beasts, who are essentially the gods of the world.
The two travel with a band of warriors, each with backstories that can be explored throughout the game. There are five constant companions: Katalina is Lyria's sworn protector, Io is the resident mage, Rackam helms the Grandcypher airship, Eugen is a former mercenary turned good guy, and Rosetta is the mysterious femme fatale. You can add more members to the party, but while they can spice up battle plans through new party compositions, they don't have as much impact on the overall story as the core group.
One major strength of Relink is its incredible aesthetic design. This series has always featured beautiful illustrations, and here it looks like those 2D drawings have been painstakingly recreated in full 3D. Battles pop with vibrant colors, as flashes of light and energy from sword slashes and magic spells fill the screen. Each character's personality shines through when they're on-screen too thanks to clear facial expressions and the tone of their voice. The orchestral soundtrack--composed by a staff which includes names like Nobuo Uematsu and Tsutomu Narita--mixes soaring symphonies fit for sailing with intense battle themes that keep the adrenaline pumping. The game is a sight to behold and a delight to hear, and its presentation immediately pulls you in.
The game doesn't overstay its welcome, at least not for a game in the action-RPG genre. The main story of Granblue Fantasy: Relink will require 15-20 hours to complete, or even fewer if you plan to roll through it on a lesser difficulty. The story isn't groundbreaking--you'll attempt to save a kidnapped girl and defeat her oppressors. It's standard fantasy stuff but there are a few moments that keep it from being too generic. In one scene, after solving a puzzle to "find a treasure," the party is greeted by a Shadow Of The Colossus-sized automaton, in a neat subversion of my expectations. There's also a few twists toward the end, one that I saw coming, but another that took me by complete surprise. Though the overall narrative isn't breaking any new ground, there are still some neat story beats on offer here.
Playing through each chapter feels fast-paced as well, thanks to the action-focused combat system. The hack-and-slash nature gives off Kingdom Hearts vibes, with furious button-mashing mixed in with the occasional strategically activated ability. Link Attacks are cool, as they offer a sudden and powerful attack through a team-up with a member of your squad. Sometimes the partner is right next to you, but other times your character leaps across the screen, which adds an extra bit of flair.
As a battle progresses, certain actions will fill a Link Meter. Should all four characters activate a Link attack at once when the meter is at 100%, it will activate Link Time, which slows every enemy down to a crawl and lets the team cut loose. Timing the activation of Link Time can be tricky, as you're dependent on three AI characters activating the move with you, but it's worth it; I was able to turn the tide of battle many times with this mechanic, and it quickly proved to be a valuable part of battle plans.
Another set of big moves in the party's arsenal is Skybound Arts, or SBA. These are flashy super attacks that can be activated after a certain character's SBA gauge reaches 100%. However, their real impact is in letting the party chain them together whenever everyone hits 100% on their SBA Gauge; once everyone has performed their individual SBA, a massive Chain Burst attack provides an instant follow-up for huge damage. The Chain Burst attack also borrows the element of whichever character started the chain; if Gran starts things off, for example, the final attack is a massive Wind-based burst called Galestorm. The button-mashing combat can feel mindless at times, but with things like Link Attacks and the SBA system, Relink's battle system offers enough strategic considerations to break up the monotony when needed and keep players engaged.
Each chapter of the adventure follows a strict formula: Speak with the party about the next objective, travel to said objective, complete it, and return home for the next chapter. It's a noticeable shift from recent action-RPGs, but it's not a detrimental one. I appreciated the matter-of-fact approach to this game, as it gave me clear tasks to complete and pointed me in the right direction every time. These missions, despite the narrative structure, don't all play out the same way either; some will follow a straight path to the major enemy, while others will give you a larger area to explore. One chapter requires you to activate three sensors on a circular map, and each of the sensors is protected by a boss-level enemy. The brevity of the chapters allows you to pick up and play one or two per session, but there's enough variety that they don't all feel like the same thing over and over again.
However, Granblue Fantasy: Relink's core story mode lacks any meaningful difficulty, even on higher difficulty levels. Healing items are plentiful in battle, and, should your character lose all of their health, you can button mash them back to life. The other party members are battle-savvy, as the AI controls them without needing to constantly monitor their health. In fact, I don't recall a single companion requiring me to revive them until the final series of battles, and it was nice to have a competent team working alongside me.
Even when intentionally seeking out a more difficult experience, I still would come out on top--I mistakenly fought one boss in Chapter 4 with a single party member, and yet I never saw the Game Over screen. I mashed myself back to health when downed and used a dodge/counterattack strategy to win. The battle did take a good 15 minutes, though I wonder how quickly it would have gone if I had a full party of four.
That's not to say the game is easy across the board, as Relink does offer some side activities in town that prove difficult. Some of them are the sort of fetch quests assigned by random townspeople that RPGs have seen for years, while others are challenge-based missions called Quests that offer ranks and scaling rewards based on how you perform. I like these missions a lot, as chasing the three-star S rank is a great challenge and serves as a gauge for how strong your party has become. Quests carry over into the post-story experience as well, with some of them serving as the best parts of the entire game.
A notable aspect of Relink is the Fate Episodes feature. Each character has a set of 11 episodes that fill in their backstories, motivations, relationships, and more. Most of them are told with text flashing on the screen against a piece of the character's artwork--for example, if you choose Gran, only two of his episodes feature actual combat--so they don't add much in terms of gameplay. However, they're well-written and do a good job of filling in the blanks for those not familiar with Granblue Fantasy's world. Furthermore, the episodes that do feature combat offer a tremendous challenge, as you'll go into battle with only the character whose story you're playing--no AI teammates allowed. Each challenge--story or combat--will boost the character's stats after completion, so even Granblue experts have reason to brush up on the story.
Granblue Fantasy: Relink bundles a lot of familiar elements together into one abridged RPG experience, with varying results. The combat is fast and furious, but it can sometimes feel monotonous, especially in longer battles. The story is a great catch-up tale for non-Granblue fans, but it doesn't do anything to stand out from its RPG counterparts. The looks and sounds of the world are wonderful though, with Granblue's signature style bursting to life with vibrant color. It doesn't revolutionize Granblue Fantasy, but Relink serves as a solid refresh for the former gacha game.
The tightrope to walk when writing a review is assessing a game for what it is, not what you wished it would be. Though some wished Rocksteady would make a game more like its Batman Arkham series, it's not fair to critique Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League for being something other than that. Instead, one must examine it for what it is: a game-as-a-service looter shooter applied to an all-star roster of DC Comics heroes and villains. You zip about a city, shoot aliens, get gear, and repeat. And, as it turns out, that game isn't very good.
In Suicide Squad, teams of one to four players step into the boots of DC Comics' wise-cracking villains Harley Quinn, Deadshot, King Shark, and Captain Boomerang. Designed in a similar vein as Crystal Dynamics' Avengers and WB Montreal's Gotham Knights, Suicide Squad is an open-world game littered with proper nouns like Afflictions, Boosts, and Shield Harvesting, buried in colorful resources, and intensely focused on having players chase better and better loot such as guns, shields, and melee weapons as it (and the all-important endgame) goes on. The intent is to keep players invested for months to come, and the game isn't shy about that.
Suicide Squad's premise--in which the titular foursome must battle the typical good guys as they've been taken over by Brainiac--would've made a hell of a comic book, and though it should work as a game just as seamlessly given how well superhero fare can translate to games, it sometimes struggles to do so given how it bizarrely moves past would-be major events with the spectacle of an office party.
The game gives each anti-hero space to quip and play off one another in a way that matches the tone of other Suicide Squad stories. It's aggressively violent, irreverent, and stupid-funny, but that's exactly as it should be with this batch of mouthy, expendable villains meant to disarm Brainiac and the drones he's made out of the world's greatest heroes. The cast does an excellent job bringing the main characters to life, especially AEW's Samoa Joe, who shines as King Shark and may have cemented his acting career as a result.
Though I enjoy the characters themselves, there are some spoiler-filled moments I won't detail that end up feeling off, considering the enormity of the titular task at hand. I sometimes found myself wanting more time with the Justice League, who are iconic heroes-turned-villains, but the game often hurried me through those story beats in a way that felt unceremonious. Ultimately this tendency served as a frequent reminder that, in a genre like this, the story often struggles to rise above mere set dressing. There are shades of Rocksteady's brilliance still intact, but killing the Justice League should feel like an epic saga, and it never manages to do that.
I would've expected the Justice League to be inherently compelling villains given how the conceit flips the way they're usually portrayed on its head, and yet they're often either one-dimensional, such as Superman or Batman, or cliche like The Flash and Green Lantern. The idea of Superman finally losing control and turning on everyone is a fascinating opportunity to explore the character through a new lens but, for whatever reason, Rocksteady didn't see what was there.
Batman's handling, meanwhile, feels like a particularly upsetting betrayal given that Rocksteady spent so much time and effort building up their take on him in the Arkham games. And yet, this version trades that and the decades of characterization that exist for a simple-minded cartoon villain who is given a very unfitting conclusion to his story.
For Green Lantern, the game leans into the space cop shtick, which is the most superficial take on a character that is driven by the power of his own will. I found it strangely easy to forget the supposed stakes of the Suicide Squad's action, and the way the heroes-turned-villains were portrayed did very little to remind me of it.
Wonder Woman's role brings a unique and more interesting wrinkle to the story, but the way she exits the story, like all others in the game, feels brushed aside. You as the player, and Rocksteady as the developer, alter the canon of its DC universe in some earth-shattering ways, but these moments come and go like you've merely checked off some items on a to-do list.
In an open-world Metropolis threatened by countless alien goons, and equipped with some gear they've stolen from the Hall of Justice, the Suicide Squad brings a bit of the Justice League's skill sets to the game, with Boomerang utilizing Flash's Speed Force to blink across gaps and Harley relying on Batman's drone, from which she grapples and swings like a new Robin in training.
Combat and traversal are meant to work in tandem to create a free-flowing minute-to-minute experience that feels good in your hands and looks stylish and powerful on screen. But it never quite gets there due to several issues, such as limitations on those traversal items and, to a more harmful extent, enemies with such specific weaknesses that combat feels like a battle between player and in-game systems. For example, certain enemies may be dispatched using only Afflictions (status effects), counters, critical hits, grenades, boosted attacks, or other strategies. This routinely feels chaotic and frustrating, as some missions may throw all types at you at once and you may be without solutions some of the time.
Playing in co-op reduces this struggle as each player can bring more of a particular play style to the fray than your AI allies may. But through this gameplay design, Suicide Squad strangely rejects playing like a traditional shooter, and the depth of this alternative design doesn't outweigh how it sometimes hamstrings progress or the game's intended power fantasy.
Enemies who must be countered demand a quick-time-event-like response, but countering them, especially from a longer range, proved unreliable, leaving me whiffing on a shot I lined up well and then taking damage. The same can be said of shield harvesting, a process in which you hurt enemies in such a way that you can heal by defeating them. One way to prime them for shield-harvesting is shooting them in the legs, but I saw many times where this simply didn't work, causing me to unload a lot of ammo from Harley's SMG to no benefit.
Guns of different classes as well as qualities are often easy to tell apart. While a weapon's inherited traits can be considered for certain builds, or even altered to better suit your play style, the foundational classes of things like pistols, SMGs, snipers, and more each feel like you'll easily find a personal favorite, or group of favorites, and focus on altering or crafting new guns in those classes. I played most of the game as Harley and therefore got used to her expertise with SMGs, but I also loved switching to Deadshot as sniping felt reliable and punchy.
Each character has a few classes they can equip but no one can equip every class, so a combination of the character's traversal tools, available weapon classes, and your group dynamic may all lend themselves to you finding a main character for yourself, and the game lets you seamlessly swap between any of the characters at any time out of combat so you can, if you so choose, get to grips with the game's full range of loot.
Because traversal items operate on strict cooldowns, the game never lets you consistently move in the coolest ways on offer. Instead, it wants you to routinely touch ground (or more likely roofs) to reset your cooldowns, thereby resulting in a movement style that, no matter which character you main, demands some wall-climbing, jumping, flying, and sliding. It sounds cool but in practice feels restrictive. I understand the reason players aren't allowed to endlessly zip around as Harley--she's not Spider-Man after all--but in a world where Spider-Man already set the bar for traversal systems in superhero games, it's frustrating to take a step backward.
Suicide Squad doesn't want to be Spider-Man, but it seems to want to be Sunset Overdrive, and it lands far from that goal, too. Those foundational movement tools, flawed as they are, are also not able to be upgraded in any way. This led to moments where, for example, rather than look cool as I took out a group of enemies, I might plummet well below the skyscraper rooftops needing to scale back to the top to continue fighting simply because Boomerang ran out of Speed Force charges. Because I couldn't improve those gameplay features with upgrades, I instead learned to accept that the fluidity I was searching for just wasn't coming. Character growth is absent in anything beyond numbers going up on equipment, and this is deeply unsatisfying.
With only one type of side activity to take part in between the game's actual missions, the open-world cityscape has no personality either. So not only does the game force me back onto solid ground with half-baked traversal mechanics, but that time spent with boots on the ground is nondescript. Metropolis is a tall, purple-infested city where landmarks feel almost non-existent. In 30+ hours of play, I can't recall one interesting sight I saw in the city. The whole world devolves into stuff to jump off of so I can fly again.
The game's worst offense is the amount of visual noise happening at all times. I have never seen such a mess of meters, prompts, effects, and data sprawled across my screen in one game. It feels like it wasn't optimized, as some aspects, such as ability cooldowns, take up an oddly large portion of the screen and could've been rectified with some fine-tuning.
There are options to turn off several pieces of the HUD, but even with tweaks, it's impossible to strike a good balance of what you need and what you want to see. With an unholy mess of stuff on the screen at nearly all times, Suicide Squad looks like what people who don't play video games think video games look like. I'm astounded that it launched in this manner, frankly. All of this visual noise doesn't just look ugly, it actively hurts the combat. With so much being thrown on the screen at any time, important prompts like shield-harvests or counters are sometimes lost in the chaos.
Server issues have persisted in my week with the game, too, including some crashes that have come after I beat a mission, demanding I replay it to mark the progress I'd just lost, or times when I'd go to log in to the game and it wasn't online, and was therefore unplayable (though an offline mode is coming sometime later).
It also defies story logic to suggest, as Rocksteady does, that this game takes place in the Arkhamverse. The main missions, most of which would feel like any other game's side missions, involve repeating multiplayer-centric objectives such as pushing the payload a la Overwatch or something like Call of Duty's Domination, where you fight to control different points until victory. There's no way to cleanly reconcile this game's obsession with pick-ups and resources and repetitive objectives with what we've seen from Rocksteady before. In no other way do I intend to compare this game to those ones, but since the studio insists this is a quasi-sequel, it bears mentioning that this world seems to operate on different rules than the last one, with little to no reasoning in the story to explain why this is. Of course, it's obvious in a meta sense: The loot grind demands it.
Many hours into my playthrough, Harley Quinn said something I hadn't heard her say before, and it perfectly encapsulated my experience with Suicide Squad. Dismissive to the quest-giver over the radio, she interrupted to say, "Kill aliens. Get to your number. Got it, pal." It was perfect. For me, it was the game's way of removing its mask and revealing its true identity. While the characters are fun, the stakes of the story are under-served, and much of what Rocksteady was previously known for seems to be shuffled to the back of the stage in favor of repetitive missions where the reward isn't the gameplay itself, but the new items you unlock for having endured it.
But like any looter shooter, the game doesn't feel like it truly begins until the all-important endgame. For all of the aforementioned grievances I have with Suicide Squad, I must say the endgame loot chase is strong and well-developed. It doesn't defy or reimagine the long-tailed systems we've seen previously--in fact, several major and minor components feel like The Division reskinned in superhero garb--but it at least applies those principles in a way that feels ingrained in the game.
In past games like it, the endgame felt undercooked (Avengers) or virtually tacked on (Gotham Knights). Here, the game feels like it's pushing players toward that endgame from the very beginning. And while that may be a disservice to the story, it's undeniably the point of this game, so it's nailing what it's meant to do best.
The early-game skill tree casually suggests different build styles for you to focus on, and though you can ignore these at your own discretion, they help greatly in creating an endgame character who can become a benefit to their squad. You can have a build focused on buffs for certain combo milestones, or focus entirely on setting up your allies with unique guns that deal damage in specific ways, or perhaps deal no damage at all but throw enemies into the air for your team to detonate in one devastating Suicide Strike.
Whereas in the early-game portion I would sometimes find guns and other items that didn't exactly fit my build despite being more powerful, the endgame loot seems to be a clear and enticing step up. My time-to-kill dropped noticeably once I equipped my first Bane-inspired gun, which is only available in the endgame. This was enhanced further when I equipped several Bane items and unlocked their group bonuses, much like you'd see in Diablo or games like it. Naturally, the pull here is going to be the perpetual recycling of new and better loot over time, always making what you have now seem inferior later on and teasing players to chase the next step up, eventually playing for weeks, months, or years, if its publisher's vision comes to fruition. From what's in the game today, Suicide Squad seems like it will fulfill that promise well, provided a community is there to become invested.
It's a daunting and awkward task to ask fans of Rocksteady's past games to be invested in builds and loot over story and interesting boss battles, but if you consider there is an audience for this sort of thing, I feel Suicide Squad comes out stronger than some others in this space, especially at launch. This is a game where beating the story and hitting level 30 is only a small fraction of what players are intended to do. For the team focused on well-timed cooldowns, combining elements in explosive ways, and playing to each other's strengths to cover up weaknesses, Suicide Squad runs deep. I can only assume its long time in development was partly spent learning from others' mistakes and best practices.
In the nine years since Rocksteady's last game, the superhero genre in video games has shifted dramatically, from a story-driven solo experience evocative of comic books to the multiplayer loot-obsessed open worlds of the current day. Returning to tell a new story in the superhero world meant adapting to that landscape, and Rocksteady does better than its predecessors in this endeavor. And yet, thanks to repetitive mission structure, wildly messy visual noise, server issues, frequent combat and movement hindrances, and a setting void of personality, it's still well below the quality this studio has shown it's capable of. I consider Suicide Squad: Kill The Justice League to be the best this melding of heroes and loot grinds has produced so far, but it's a low bar and proof that 'best' doesn't necessarily mean 'good.'
Tekken 8's greatest challenge is building on a fighting game experience that has been refined to close to perfection over the course of eight-plus years, without feeling like it retreading old ground or needlessly upending the foundation laid by its predecessor. Thankfully, it's a challenge that developer Bandai Namco meets by introducing an improved fighting system focused on aggression, an impressive roster of 32 fighters, and one of the most rock-solid online experiences I've ever seen in a fighting game.
The main draw of Tekken 8 is the Heat system, which represents a new wrinkle to an already-satisfying set of brawling mechanics. Certain moves in each fighter's repertoire emit a burst of white energy on contact which, in turn, activates an aura of that same energy around the character's limbs. While in this state, characters can inflict more damage when blocked, gain access to a quick Heat Dash or powerful Heat Smash, and receive a few unique perks depending on the character. Claudio, for example, gets access to enhanced and powerful Starburst attacks while Heat is active, while Leroy can add time to his Heat meter whenever he uses one of his unique parry or reversal attacks, which keeps him powered up for longer. Heat can only be activated once per round, and it's only active for a short period of time, which promotes more aggressive tactics. Although it can be easy to think of this as a comeback mechanic, it has much more strategic utility and versatility which can mean it's used for an aggressive offense or a Hail Mary.
This makes every battle feel like a slugfest, which I find to be a refreshing change of pace for the franchise. Tekken has always been good at getting the adrenaline pumping during a match through the basics of trading fists, but the swings in momentum that a perfectly timed Heat activation can cause significantly amp up the excitement for both players and spectators. Importantly, the new Heat system doesn't pave the way to mindless mashing of buttons to brute force the aggression. While it's certainly possible to win a bout or two by smashing buttons, players who prefer to wait for the opportune moment to strike will often come out on top, and in brutal and cinematic style, they may just need to make some adjustments to account for the unpredictability of mashers. The new Heat System offers a lot to new and returning Tekken players, and the threat of a drastic turn in the tide of a battle at the touch of a single button press makes for tense moments and satisfying flourishes when successful.
The Heat Smash attacks are some of the flashiest in the entire game. They're similar to Rage Arts--the one-time-use super move only available at critical health--but they no longer require waiting until you're near-death to use them, so they can be strategically employed at any time rather than being akin to a comeback mechanic employed in desperate and dire moments. They also inject more of Tekken's personality into each match; one of my favorite Heat Smashes belongs to Kuma, the massive brown bear, who bludgeons his opponent with a comically large fish, only for said fish to then hopelessly flop around the arena for the remainder of the round. It's a powerful move with funny execution at the end, and I'll always appreciate that.
Kuma is but one member of a robust character roster that is available upon starting the game, and there's enough variety among the 32 characters that each one stands out both visually and in gameplay in their own way. Kuma and Panda stick out immediately--they're both giant, bipedal bears, which is hard to miss--but the android Alisa and her removable head, the mysterious Safina's spider-like attacks and movement, and the samurai Yoshimitsu's glaring red eyes and amazing blue armor are some of my favorite new designs for returning characters.
Joining the roster are three brand-new faces, and all three are incredibly fun to play in different ways. Azucena is always moving, which is befitting of her "Coffee Queen" persona. She can deftly dodge attacks and strike while an opponent is exposed to dish out damaging retaliatory attacks. Victor is a calm and collected special agent who wields an arsenal of futuristic weaponry as he teleports around the ring. My favorite of the three, however, is Reina, who not only calls back to one of the patriarchs of the franchise--the now-deceased Heihachi Mishima--but also adds a new layer of intrigue to the story mode. She hits like a truck, with flashy spinning kicks and electrifying punch combos that pack a wallop.
While the new characters offer unique ways to fight, the returning roster has plenty of new moves for you to learn as well. Tekken veterans will find fun and interesting abilities and combos that weren't there before, which means everyone on the roster has a fresh learning curve to explore. I've mained the pro wrestler King since Tekken 2, and I've already found a new favorite move: Rapid King Onslaught. If you're familiar with pro wrestling, take one look at the first three letters of each word in the move's name, and you can guess what happens. Discovering that move was a delight, and I'm always looking to unleash it on an unsuspecting opponent. Better still, everyone on the roster has similarly thrilling moves like that, and they're very fun to figure out and implement into your strategies from previous games.
Every fighter also has a suite of customization options to choose from, which let you tweak your favorite fighter to your liking. T-shirts, jackets, hats, and more can be fitted onto a character or purchased with in-game currency--which, thankfully, is in bountiful supply. While there are a finite number of items for each character, mixing and matching provides more creative freedom than I expected, and I came up with some really cool looks, as well as a few goofy ones. The idea of Kazuya Mishima, the game's fearsome main villain, entering battle against Jin in a Freddy Krueger-style shirt while wearing a traffic cone on his head never fails to make me laugh.
Tekken 8 offers an impressive mix of modes, which range from standard battles to some off-beat variations. Online play will be the bread-and-butter of the game, and the Tekken Fight Lounge is the central hub for all of it. Here, created avatars meet in a lavish arcade setting, sit at arcade machines, and do battle against one another in Quick, Ranked, Player, and Group Matches. I love the vibe of the place; it really gives off the feel of being in an arcade like when I was young. At the time of writing, the servers weren't as populated as they will be when the game is available, but the atmosphere was no less engaging because of it, so I can only imagine how energetic it will be when the fighter floodgates open.
Of course, none of this matters if online matches don't have stable connections, and I'm happy to report that for the majority of the matches I played online--29 of my 30, to be exact--I experienced zero lag, stuttering, or technical issues. Only once did action come to a halt, but it quickly resumed and never hitched again. Rollback frames are easily visible in the bottom-right of the screen as well, so I always know how my matches are performing in real-time.
Having played the game out in the wild now I'm happy to report that, outside of a few minor hiccups on launch day, the online environment has been stable for the vast majority of my post-launch playing time. I've logged on in the morning, during the afternoon, and at night, and there are always plenty of other players available for matches. Furthermore, most matches have felt like I'm sitting in the same room with my opponents, with little to no connection issues. Tekken 8's online experience is the best the franchise has ever seen, and I expect players to enjoy it for a long time to come.
Those who don't want to venture online have plenty of ways to keep fighting while offline. There are standard matches against the AI or against other local players, for example. Tekken Ball--a silly side game that mixes Tekken with volleyball--is a fun break from normal action, though the ball physics sometimes make the experience more frustrating than it should be. Training mode is neat as well, thanks to a robust suite of tools that expose frame data, detail movement, and explore other elements which deepened the player's understanding of the game.
The weakest single-player mode is called Character Stories. Here, you choose a character, watch a brief introduction for said character, and then fight through five predetermined opponents, one after another, in the same stage. Once all five opponents are beaten, there is a cutscene featuring the character, and then you're thrown back to the character select. The ending cutscenes are cool, but the entire mode feels half-baked, as if it were an afterthought. This is the closest Tekken 8 gets to a traditional "arcade" mode from previous games, and it leaves a lot to be desired.
My issues with Characters Stories aside, the leadup to Tekken 8 has focused heavily on the conflict between Kazuya Mishima and his son, Jin Kazama, and that conflict serves as the base for the game's largest single-player mode, The Dark Awakens. This three-hour story mode plays out over 15 chapters, and while the Mishima family tree and the Devil Gene running through the narrative is the focal point, players aren't limited to playing as Jin. A few missions let you take over other characters to mix things up a bit; one chapter even involves playing out an entire first round of a tournament bracket by picking one character in each matchup.
While I was happy to get those moments away from Jin and Kazuya's quarrel, whether in cutscene or in battles with other characters, they never lasted as long as I wanted them to. I am not a Jin player--I've tried, but he and I haven't clicked since he debuted in Tekken 3--so playing as him for the majority of the chapters, while understandable due to the subject matter, made it less fun for me. That said, the story takes some wild turns, which inspired me to push through and deal with my Jin shortcomings.
My lack of Jin expertise was helped by the Special Style mode, which is a format for new Tekken players to use in order to ease into the game. This is equivalent to Street Fighter 6's Modern controls, where attacks and combos are accessed with single button presses rather than the normal format of successive, timed presses. Using them to get through story chapters I had trouble with was enough for me, but I can see the benefit for someone who's not familiar with how the game works utilizing it beyond this. Furthermore, while it simplifies a character's moves, it also limits the player to the preassigned moves, so when I encountered someone using Special Style online, I just needed to identify the move loops they were going through in order to effectively counter it.
Arcade Quest--a cute journey of Tekken fans playing the latest game at their local arcades--is also available as a complementary offering to the other single-player mode and, unlike the Jin-centric story, it lets players pick whoever they want. Not only that, but it teaches certain combos and tricks for the selected character while also throwing in moves to experiment with during each match, engendering a learning process. This is where I discovered Rapid King Onslaught; without it, I might not have found my new favorite move.
Upon starting Arcade Quest, you're assigned an avatar. Each avatar can be customized from head to toe, too, with options for skin, hair, clothes, accessories, and more. I went for a simple look to start with, but before long I was wearing a bright red polka-dotted shirt and carrying around a trophy made of golden fists. Combined with character customizations, this gives a lot of ownership over the looks of the people I'm controlling when Tekken 8 to the player, which is a nice way to draw them into the game even further.
Arcade Quest serves as an expanded tutorial of sorts, both in Tekken 8 and the fighting game scene surrounding it. Granted, most of the dialogue between the avatars is more dramatic than you'll hear at your local arcade--and a lot less explicit, if I'm being honest--but it does capture the essence of meeting up and playing in person pretty well. What's more, when completed it takes the player right to the Tekken Fight Lounge where real-world players will be waiting, and it's an excellent "training wheels are coming off" moment.
Eight years after its predecessor originally launched in arcades, Tekken 8 has arrived, and it has brought the heat to match the long wait. The Heat System is an exciting addition to the fighting mechanics earmarked by flashy moves and multiple ways to use them. The roster is deep and varied, and it offers something for everyone. Both offline and online players will find plenty of things to do, and the customization options all add a personal flair. Tekken 8 is poised for another near-decade of dominance, as it's a Devil of a good time.
Content warning: This review discusses Silent Hill: The Short Message's story, which includes references to self-harm.
As a lifelong horror fan and longtime horror critic, I didn't expect to review a free Silent Hill game that launched, PT-style, just a few minutes after it was revealed. And I certainly didn't expect it to be as forgettable as it is. After more than a decade away from consoles, Silent Hill: The Short Message revives the series as the first of several games over the next few years. I sincerely hope future installments in the franchise can rekindle the long-absent magic because The Short Message doesn’t do that. In more ways than one, it's not the playable teaser Silent Hill fans hoped for.
Silent Hill: The Short Message is a first-person horror game built on the idea of a time loop in which its tormented main character is trapped. If that sounds familiar, wait until you play it. The game is blatantly inspired by PT (or "Playable Teaser"), Hideo Kojima's guerrilla demo for the never-released Silent Hill title he was once working on. The Short Message is not Konami running back PT's story without its director. It's a brand-new entry into the series meant to be something of a jumping-on point for players uninitiated with the previously hibernating horror series. It's neither tied to any past entry, nor a teaser for a future installment.
Clocking in at about 90 minutes, its time commitment is brief, its financial commitment is non-existent, and yet I still can't recommend it because it winds up feeling like a caricature of itself and may only sour--or sour further--one's memories of what was, for a time, the genre's best series.
The Short Message doesn't take place in Silent Hill, but it explains why that is and tries to tell a story that checks all the usual boxes. Main character playing the role of an unreliable narrator? Check. Horrors that are heightened whenever that character descends into the supernatural Otherworld? Yup. A twist that recontextualizes everything you've seen before it? Of course. These could be seen as non-negotiable elements of any game sporting the Silent Hill name, but the formula felt fresh in Silent Hill 2, was still enjoyable in Silent Hill Homecoming, and was obvious--but not, I suppose, game-ruining--in Silent Hill Downpour. In The Short Message, however, it just feels played out, like it's writing a book report using only the Spark Notes, understanding Silent Hill to be a metaphysical prison for a tortured wrongdoer, and taking the shortest possible path to tell that story.
Referring to an in-universe worldwide occurrence coined "The Silent Hill Phenomenon," the game explains that places of despair have been known to be enveloped in fog before things get even worse. Basically, the game suggests, you can have a Silent Hill anywhere, even in the strange German town full of Japanese teens where the game is set. It feels like a silly addition to the lore when, previously, Silent Hill has never really been considered as being in the same physical place anyway. Silent Hill wasn't exactly a town so much as a vibe, but The Short Message confuses that approach, or perhaps deliberately reimagines it for the worse.
These superficial details of what Silent Hill has been and, as I infer it, "should be," are worsened by a script that lacks subtext or subtlety to a groan-inducing degree. Characters speak their mind with such precision that they leave nothing unsaid, ever. As the player, there's no room to misunderstand, to ponder a character's intentions, or to be misdirected in any way other than the one way it does try to, which is likely the obvious one you'll see coming after only a few minutes in the game.
The Short Message does seek meaningfulness in its narrative, telling a dark story about self-harm, bullying, and a condemned building suffering from habitual suicides among young girls. There's a kernel of something worth exploring there, but it has to be done deftly. Rather than paint in vibrant colors to create something poignant that both spooks its audience and carries its intended message to the finish line, the game feels like a firehose with two settings: platitudes and nonsense.
With frequent frame-rate drops that see the game endlessly floating between 40 and 60 frames per second, the game also feels suboptimal on a technical level. Given the strictly linear approach and the limited environments or effects, it strikes me as odd that the game can't maintain consistent performance.
But playing it isn't just a technical eyesore. It's an all-too-familiar haunted house story that takes the seeds of PT but bears only rotten fruit. In fact, The Short Message is indistinguishable from the decade of PT-likes that have crowded Steam and other platforms since Kojima's top-secret demo hit PS4. It's actually worse than some of the many others I've played given how it retreads so much familiar territory but to a less impressive degree.
For example, environments can morph in the instant you turn away from them, meant to provide the game with a sense of disorientation a la Layers of Fear. But whereas that game enhanced this feature with phantasmagoric Dorian Gray-inspired displays, where up was down and its setting virtually came to life around the player, The Short Message tends to merely swap one hallway for another. Virtually the entire portion of the game that takes place outside of the Otherworld exists in decrepit hallways full of graffiti where every corridor looks the same. Occasional live-action scenes only re-color the monotony due to how every scene staged with real people unfolds in the same featureless white space.
The Short Message also uses disembodied voices to recall memories you'll unlock by picking up notes and other clues during the story. Though this is pretty standard video game fare, I still think it can be done well, such as with the Amnesia series. But the quality of both the writing and acting can sometimes make these moments in The Short Message inadvertently comical, such as when I interacted with a pizza and was scolded by the memory of a frustrated mother.
PT-likes seldom hide their influences, choosing instead to lean into them to try to catch fire the way PT did, but in the case of The Short Message, the story and gameplay both leave it in a decidedly worse place than other copycats. It offers the broad strokes of PT--a time loop, a haunting, some claustrophobic hallways, and even a baby in mortal danger--but none of the dizzying terror.
Just as it misunderstands what made PT special, and what made so many games trying to fill that void subsequently forgettable, The Short Message seems not to understand Silent Hill's own well-established successes. In the formerly iconic Otherworld, you'll flee an unkillable monster with no means to defend yourself other than your ability to sprint. This applies a modern horror game trope to a series that once proudly invented the foundation for many games to come, and in turn hurries players through what has often been the series' best aspect. Not only can you not explore much of the Otherworld, which in past games has helped create a dire mood befitting of the genre, but you can't even stop running. The monster is always chasing you in these scenes until you clear an invisible threshold, escape, and kick off the next cutscene.
Even if that's how it's going to be, I'm not tired of the horror genre's monster chases when they're done well, but The Short Message fails to do so. These sequences are common in the game and quickly grow tiring given how they tend to have one right path and several wrong paths, leading to many trial-and-error failures with checkpoints that send players back to start.
While at first I found these moments elicited a bit of tension in me the way an effective horror game should, I soon succumbed to frustration every time the hallways would turn into the burnt-orange Otherworld, because I knew it meant more guesswork with severe penalties laid ahead. The harsh industrial music arranged by series legend Akira Yamaoka and a sincerely creepy monster draped in cherry blossoms, designed by the similarly lauded Masahiro Ito, are the game's only bright spots and help make these otherwise frustrating sections a little more memorable.
Still, a new Silent Hill needs to be more than a soundtrack and a cool monster. The series' best efforts come with unforgettable stories that feel as though they operate on mystifying dream logic that lead players to question what they're seeing at every turn. The Short Message is desperate to be understood and devoid of novelty, leaving no room for interpretation, no sense of lingering mystery, and no strong impression for anyone who may be playing a Silent Hill game for the first time. Its unintended short message ends up feeling unfortunately obvious: Do not download.
Persona 3 is often called the darkest entry in its series, and within two minutes of starting it becomes clear why. Persona 3 Reload, remake of the 2006 classic, opens just like its previous versions: with a distressed young girl slumping to the floor as she attempts to work up enough nerve to place a gun against her temple. It's a shocking scene, made even more distressing when our protagonist is greeted by that same girl as he walks into his new school dorm. Her disposition does not betray what she was presumably doing just moments before, as she greets him in a charming, albeit slightly alarmed, manner. Yet, like Persona 3 as a whole, there's more to the situation than both we as players, and the protagonist, can see.
Beyond a grim exterior is a beautiful balancing act--one that carefully weighs tension and relief, love and loss, mystery and resolution, and that aforementioned macabre nature against an unrelenting light. It's only fitting, then, that nearly 20 years later, developer Atlus has chosen to revisit Persona 3 in an effort to rebalance its gameplay as masterfully as its themes. Persona 3 Reload triumphs in doing this, delivering an unforgettable and emotionally resonant story alongside improved visuals and brilliantly re-strategized combat. While not quite as transformative as its name might imply, Reload successfully modernizes the Persona series' greatest and most relatable story.
In true Persona fashion, our story begins with an unnamed protagonist transferring to a new high school: Gekkoukan High. While both the school and the seaside city of Tatsumi Port Island feel relatively unassuming at first, it doesn't take long for him to discover the Dark Hour--an eerie and nearly undetectable period of time that exists just after midnight in which murderous shadows are unleashed upon the world. Soon after, he learns that his fellow dorm mates are actually members of the Specialized Extracurricular Execution Squad (SEES), a secretive school organization hellbent on fighting those shadows using the power of persona.
After a shadow attacks his dorm, the protagonist discovers he also has the power of persona and can use a gun-shaped item called an Evoker to summon forth physical manifestations of his psyche to fight--much like Yukari, the girl shown in the game's opening scene. He then joins SEES as its combat leader, assisting Yukari and fellow team members Akihiko and Mitsuru in eliminating large shadows and recruiting even more members to the cause.
And yet, risking his life night after night doesn't stop our hero from having other responsibilities as well. While nights are chiefly reserved for fighting monsters in the dark tower of Tartarus--the game's seemingly infinite dungeon--it is up to you to decide how he manages his days. Between classes, crushes, computer games, and clubs, there are many options to pick from. These two features--turn-based combat and time management--form the core gameplay loop for Persona 3 Reload and interact with one another closely. When you raise your social links during the normal hours of a day, for example, you and your personas grow stronger in the Dark Hour. Conversely, when you explore Tartarus and take down the large shadows that emerge each full moon, you get to see the consequences of your actions unravel in the real world.
For me, combat became more of a chore than the game's social sim element in Persona 3's previous iterations, but Reload manages to keep both parts engaging, and neither of them outshines the other drastically. When I grew tired of belting out karaoke alone in an attempt to raise my character's courage, exploring Tartarus' labyrinthine floors offered some much-needed mental stimulation. When I got my ass handed to me in a battle for which I was more than a little under-leveled, studying for midterms was, somehow, a welcome reprieve. The key to this successful back-and-forth lies in some of Reload's brilliant additions, with the combat side seeing the most dramatic of these improvements.
On top of new spells and personas, Reload adds two new systems to Persona 3's combat: Shifting and Theurgy. For those who have played Persona 5, Shifting will come naturally, as it is simply the Baton Pass system with a new name. This gives you the ability to pass your turn to another one of your party members if you hit an enemy's weakness, subsequently awarding strategic thinking with damage-dealing combos. Theurgy, on the other hand, gives players a powerful trump card in the shape of ultimate abilities that often bypass enemy weaknesses or boost your team's next string of attacks once a character's Theurgy gauge is filled. Each character's Theurgy ability, as well as their requirements for filling up their gauge, vary based on their general fighting style. Yukari, for example, grows more powerful the more she heals her teammates, ultimately unlocking a powerful wind-based move that bypasses any enemy resistances.
Together, these mechanics make combat more fluid, more fun, and, to be honest, a lot easier than it was in Persona 3. Sure, you might be exploring dungeons that are far more simplistic than the flashy, themed ones seen in Persona 5, but things don't feel stale thanks to drastically improved combat. That said, don't take that to mean fighting lacks any resistance. Plenty of monsters still put up a fight, so you'll still get absolutely wrecked if you go into a battle without thinking through your persona fusions or bringing along a single party member who can cast a few buffs or debuffs. Amrita sodas remain a must-have and frequent Monad floors--bonus floors with a single, extra-strong enemy that essentially replace the original games' Monad Depths--keep things challenging. Additionally, there are two difficulty modes above normal to accommodate those feeling particularly feisty.
By comparison, the game's social simulation aspect didn't see many significant changes on a mechanical level. The most significant addition is the inclusion of fully-voiced evening activities back at the dorm, which include watching movies with friends, group cooking, gardening, and brushing the world's best boy, Koromaru. On top of killing time during the once-notoriously-dull evenings of Persona 3, these activities are a fun way to improve your relationships and social stats, as well as unlock new abilities for your party members. And best of all, get to see a little bit more of the main cast's personality shine.
That said, Reload might be disappointing to those expecting a more transformative experience. In addition to missing significant, story-loaded features that are in other versions, such as P3P's female protagonist and P3 FES' bonus chapter, The Answer, Reload adds very little new content compared to Persona 4 Golden and Persona 5 Royal, so don't expect any new characters, locations, events, plot points, or major quality-of-life improvements outside of those dorm activities. While I found myself a bit disheartened by the lack of any newness, the latter became a minor point of frustration for me, as I was hoping for some minor adjustments to the game's calendar that would make maxing out every social link this time around less of a Herculean effort.
However, I can't deny it is still absolutely worth the effort, as Persona 3--and subsequently the very faithful Persona 3 Reload--contains some truly incredible characters and stories. While not every side story is captivating (sorry, Chihiro and Suemitsu fans), there are several that pack real emotional punches and reinforce the game's central themes of love, loss, and how it takes one to know the other. Among some of the game's memorable characters are Hayase, a rival athlete who is figuring out how to support his family and live his dream after the death of his father; the elderly Kitamura, couple who are navigating the loss of their son and their old age; Maiko, a young girl struck in the middle of her parent's messy divorce; Mutatsu, a middle-aged monk who abandoned his family, and Akinai, a man only slightly older than the protagonist who is grappling with terminal illness and isolation. Persona 3 Reload is filled with memorable stories that are both complicated and nuanced.
These themes are similarly exemplified in Reload's main cast, but that doesn't mean that these characters are merely thematic stand-ins. Each member of SEES is multi-faceted, deeply-human, and brings their own baggage and perspective to the party. As such, they don't always see eye to eye with one another, making for some interesting dynamics and opportunities for growth. In particular, I love the relationship between Mitsuru and Yukari, which starts off a bit tense before growing into one of the strongest in the game. While it might be natural to assume that tension comes from pining after the same man, it's such a relief to write that it's about something more significant, and their coming together happens as a result of them overcoming both moments of anger and despair together.
And yet, this relationship is merely one of many that is deeply moving, and is entirely removed from the internal struggles each character faces, such as Yukari's resentment towards her irresponsibly grieving mother or Mitsuru's loneliness. Even the game's more comedic characters like Junpei, or characters that would typically fill the game's "mascot" role, like Aigis or Koromaru, are all taken a bit more seriously and are allowed to explore their own grief and mortality in beautiful ways. There are precious few games that celebrate life and the ones who give it meaning in a way that is as impactful as Reload, and even fewer remind us of the difficult truth that everything is beautiful because we are doomed--and I can't think of any that do it better than Persona 3 Reload.
All these stories and characters are further elevated by spectacular voice acting, now used liberally through the game, and dramatically improved visuals that transform the once static-looking PS2 era game into something that rivals Persona 5 aesthetically. And yet, it doesn't feel as if Reload necessarily seeks to emulate the newest Persona game, but rather uses it as a jumping off point to expand its own identity. There's a unique fluidity to Reload that is reflected in its UI--a sense of depth and somber that reflects both the main character, the port city he lives in, and perhaps even the sentimentality of the game as a whole. Character portraits and animations have never looked better in a Persona game, and the Theurgy moves inject a ton of personality and spirit into battle. And also, they're just really cool. I played for close to 70 hours and I still haven't gotten tired of Mitsuru donning a Shiva-like demeanor as she snaps her fingers and freezes her opponents.
This fluidity and style also works its way into Reload's music, which features the return of Japanese rapper Lotus Juice (who has seemingly only perfected his flow in the years since the original game's release) as well as new singer Azumi Takahasi. The pair's unique sounds work together beautifully on the game's new arrangements of "Burn My Dread" and "Deep Breath Deep Breath," which both somehow retain all the tension they once had while somehow feeling just a bit more groovy and mature. And it's now impossible for me to think of Persona 3 music without "It's Going Down Now" and "Color Your Night" coming to mind, which is just a testament to how suiting and fun both songs are. Sonically, Atlus remains tough to beat.
Simply put, Reload is the greatest way to experience Persona 3's story, and Persona 3's story is one well worth experiencing. While it might not be the definitive edition--or even a remake in the same vein as something like Persona 5 Royal--it contains enough changes and upgrades to make it an extremely worthwhile play for repeat players and newcomers alike.
On paper, Like A Dragon: Infinite Wealth has everything I could possibly ask for in a game from RGG Studio: Kasuga Ichiban from the 2020 RPG Yakuza: Like A Dragon co-leading with series legend Kazuma Kiryu--two characters I love dearly fighting alongside one of the most memorable supporting casts in recent years. It's the best of both Yakuza worlds coming together for a story about life, legacy, and the daunting realities of the world we live in--but, more than anything, atonement and the various forms it can take. It also comes with greatly improved RPG systems that nail the tactical joy of turn-based combat while upholding Yakuza's identity in remarkable ways. And in splitting its time in Hawaii with Yokohama, you get two robust and detailed locations to explore new and old ideas through the biggest suite of side activities the series has had thus far.
For all its comedic absurdity and optional diversions, Infinite Wealth brings its heavier themes into focus--at times--with the kind of dramatic storytelling the franchise has mastered over the years. It's unfortunate to say, however, that the main story loses the thread along the way. By putting unearned emphasis on its least interesting aspects and meandering for much of its runtime, the compelling narrative ambitions it sets up are largely left unfulfilled. That's tough to grapple with for what's supposed to be a monumental passing of the torch between the two beloved leads and one last hurrah for one whose life we've seen unfold across nearly two decades' worth of games. And so, instead, Infinite Wealth becomes a game about individual moments--moments of bittersweet reflection, moments of heartfelt camaraderie, and moments of hype that uplift legendary characters even higher. These are moments that remind you the Yakuza franchise is much bigger than any one game. Even when Infinite Wealth's overarching plotline comes up short in crucial ways, those moments still make it worth playing.
Things kick off with a strong opening that puts the realities of normal adult life front and center, almost as if RGG held a mirror up to my face and made a prologue chapter based on some of the things I've been through. More than just being real and relevant to the average person, this also tees up a powerful theme about the struggles of reintegrating with society after a life of crime, which has frequently been explored in the series from different perspectives. In Infinite Wealth, the theme is used to show Ichiban's struggles, as someone who embodies everything good about being the naive goofball with fists of iron and a heart of gold, and as a person driven by the ideals established in his previous game. Furthermore, the recurring theme of public opinion and internet virality dictating reality sharply foreshadows how Infinite Wealth steeps itself in modern social commentary.
As much as Ichiban makes peace with his past, it comes back around and propels him to visit Hawaii in search of family, making for a nice getaway but also a new place to get caught in another complex web of powerful criminals and conspiracies. The streets of Honolulu have been recreated with the same level of detail as Kamurocho, Ijincho, Sotenbori, or any other location from the series. As someone who's spent time in the exact locations modeled in Infinite Wealth, it's wild how familiar it all felt, from the beautiful Waikiki shoreline where the Duke Kahanamoku statue stands, to the backstreets around Ala Wai I walked after late nights out, it's all brought to life with attention to detail. ABC Stores are around every corner, the Ala Moana mall and other shopping centers have a striking resemblance here, and even the local boutique 88 Tees has a shop where you can buy gear and gifts. It's a welcome change of scenery, especially given its spacious streets are dense with side content but also perfect for busting out a segway and cruising along. It's only fitting that you get a dedicated button to make Ichiban throw up the shaka and greet passersby with a hearty "Aloha!" too.
Infinite Wealth doesn't take you to Hawaii for vacation, though--therein lies a story about an underworld that's just as insidious as anything we've seen in Kamurocho. This comes with some sharp commentary about how the rest of the US treats Hawaii, the interconnectedness of the police with the criminal underworld, and the importance of local charity holding its people together. A lot of strong groundwork gets laid in these opening chapters, but as the main story goes on, a significant amount of time gets spent on continuously laying more groundwork without taking the narrative in a meaningful direction. At certain points, Infinite Wealth instead becomes more concerned with setting up factions and relatively weak villains for the sake of giving you something to chase. By dedicating so much time and effort to plot threads that either don't amount to much or just aren't very compelling, I struggled to buy into what the entire party was fighting for most of the time. Yakuza games have been great about giving you something tangible to fight for, and even when you know a big plot twist is going to upend your efforts, at least there's a convincing momentum toward the story's bigger truths. As Infinite Wealth went on, however, I couldn't help but see the clock ticking on it being able to make good on the things that matter most and I came away with mixed feelings.
That's not to say Infinite Wealth doesn't have incredible touches along the way, because with those uncharacteristic lows come some spectacular highs. For Kiryu, there's a powerful level of introspection that shows him coming to terms with everything he's struggled with, and he reckons with the broader idea of the yakuza as an organization and bearing some responsibility for the consequences of their misdeeds. What you do with the limited time you have left becomes an ever-present theme, and every time he seeks closure for one aspect of his life, it's a bittersweet feeling for such an inspiring character. Since the main story is often focused on the bigger picture of factional drama, several of Kiryu's best moments are relegated to side content. At times, I wrestled with the idea that the most important parts of his life were seen as an afterthought, especially once I saw how Infinite Wealth somewhat undermines what Like A Dragon Gaiden set up for him. But at least he gets a big stage at critical points. And if you've been with the series from the beginning, Infinite Wealth provides one of the series' highest peaks by blending the franchise's history into an unforgettable gameplay sequence.
While Ichiban also gets some great moments showcasing his unbreakable faith in the people around him, I can't help but come away annoyed with what this game does with his character overall. Sure, he still has a lot of growing up to do in the aftermath of the previous game, but he's so often used as a tool for shallow jokes and has a serious problem with who he directs his empathy towards, so it feels like he's noticeably regressed. Considering how the opening chapters reinforce the qualities that made him a lovable character, it's disappointing that we only see short glimpses of brilliance throughout the rest of the story.
Even still, this is a series that has proven character development is its greatest strength, which comes through in most of the supporting cast. That's particularly true of newcomer Tomizawa, whose arc of humble and dubious beginnings is fleshed out, allowing him to grow in believable and human ways, eventually fitting into the existing band of misfits. Chitose adds a youthful perspective and an important lens into the modern world to contrast with the older folks who are always just seemingly down on their luck. Everyone from Yakuza: Like A Dragon returns in some form, and while they often feel sidelined in the main story, the times they do band together are heartwarming. So much of that charm comes through in Drink Links, optional conversations that open up as you increase your bond level with party members. Through either Kiryu or Ichiban, you get well-written heart-to-hearts that add a layer of nuance to each character, reminding you that sometimes talking through your troubles and asking for help can unexpectedly change your life for the better. It's a bit odd that some seemingly crucial developments happen through this portion of side content, but they're worth working toward regardless.
Having all these lovable characters in a party genuinely makes the RPG combat all the more enjoyable, as their personalities shine through in their default Jobs and movesets. Whether I'm fighting a massive shark off the side of a boat or an in-game Danny Trejo who's dual-wielding machetes, the turn-based combat puts the spotlight on each of the party members and their distinct personality, letting combat also drive the story and enhance their characterization. As ridiculous as it is to scrub down enemies in a bubble bath or pop bottles of champagne to do water-based damage, for example, it's also an effortless blend of the series' unmistakable sense of humor and the intensity of dramatic high-stakes battles. Furthermore, the expanded Job system lets each character take on different roles with some utterly ridiculous attacks and spells, like the surfer-inspired Aquanaut, the deadly ninja Kunoichi, or the gunslinging Desperado. You can find borderline broken team compositions with super-effective movesets, but rather than feeling like exploits, it's rewarding in the sense that it comes from a better understanding of the systems at play, which are noticeably deeper than those of the previous entry.
Mechanically speaking, a number of smaller changes lead to significant improvements in combat. Being able to move around a defined space during each turn lets you line up back attacks, area-of-effect spells, and knockbacks, which add a new strategic layer to the system. Bond levels and Drink Links are also integrated into progression to open up perks like slick combo attacks, freebie follow-ups, and tag-team attacks, and it's a wonderful embodiment of the power of friendship wrapped into tangible gameplay perks. It's not the most elegant system, since positioning can be imprecise and context-sensitive actions can obstruct the actual attack you want to execute. But the tradeoff is that you're in much more control of the party, and the tactical considerations that come along with that control makes for a satisfying and unique flow. And at the end of the day, where the hell else are you going to get a turn-based RPG with grown-ass adults taking on imaginary jobs to fight their toughest foes? Even when I wasn't fully invested in the story, the battles kept me engaged. And thanks to the stellar combat system I didn't even mind the occasional dungeon grind that's soft-required to reach the appropriate level to progress in the main story.
The way Kiryu has been molded into an RPG character is brilliant as well. His three signature stances give his normal attack flexibility, and his Essence spells call back to the skills he's picked up over the years. But most of all, his Dragon's Resurgence limit break has to be one of the coolest things the series has ever done, especially as a narrative device. Despite fights being turn-based, this gives you a brief window to control Kiryu in the old action-brawler style to show he still carries that Dragon of Dojima spirit no matter what. Overall, RGG has truly found its footing in making its own outstanding RPG combat system, and one that stands among some of the best in the business.
Of course, another aspect that is essential to the spirit of a Yakuza/Like A Dragon game is the optional activities that litter the maps of Honolulu and Yokohama. Small things like background conversations you can initiate while roaming the world give a little boost to social standing with party members and add some nice flavor to them. The in-game Tinder equivalent is as outlandish as it is believable, with writing you can tell comes from people who've had experiences on dating apps. And as is tradition, substories are around every corner. The series has made its reputation on some of the wild things that happen in these side quests--for Infinite Wealth, there are a few instances of comedic gold and neat callbacks, and then there are some major flops. Sometimes it felt like RGG went over the top for the sake of it, or tried to send a poignant message but woefully fumbled the delivery. It's also really disappointing that they put Ichiban in some gravely uncomfortable situations for goofs, so in some respects, the substories have lost sight of what made them good to begin with.
The big swing Infinite Wealth takes is in Dondoko Island, the Animal Crossing-style crafting and management activity that kind of exists in its own realm. I'm hesitant to call it a minigame given how involved its mechanics are. From clearing trash in order to expand into new zones to farming materials across the island, a certain level of effort is required to start building out your resort. A worthwhile side story is also attached to advancing your ranking in Dondoko Island, and this involves fending off hostile pirates, inviting visitors to make money off of, and crafting increasingly sophisticated structures. Part of me misses the simplicity of Ichiban Confections from the previous game, where building a business and appeasing stakeholders were wrapped in a briskly paced management-sim minigame. However, I don't mind the trade-off for having more to chew on with Dondoko Island, and thankfully I had the appetite for engaging with these sorts of systems.
To bring things back down to earth, Memoirs of a Dragon are Kiryu's bucket list of side activities for him to either enjoy his life for once or reflect on the life he's led. These come in various forms, like short lines of dialogue where something in the world triggers Kiryu's memory of a specific event from a previous game or full-on substories that go deeper on reopening certain plotlines from the past. Like the rest of the series, they can range from hilarious to heart-wrenching. While knocking these out may feel formulaic, it gives a certain warmth and reverence to a character who also exhibits many regrets and recognizes the mistakes he's made in life. Kiryu's more complex than he often leads us to believe, and that side of him surfaces in moments throughout Infinite Wealth.
A microcosm of those great moments is found in karaoke. It's always been a staple of the franchise and the go-to minigame that perfectly captures Yakuza's personality. The game directly acknowledges the importance of karaoke and the role it has played throughout the series with a small but beautiful moment to complement the greatest hits songlist included in Infinite Wealth. Every character gets to jump in on the fun for catchy tunes both new and old, and there's even a spiritual successor to the classic "Baka Mitai" by Kiryu himself. It's another of those individual moments I mentioned earlier that hold things together, preventing the game from crumbling under the weight of its ambitions.
There's also the lingering thought that Yakuza: Like A Dragon had a powerful message to send and which it said with its whole chest--and that's about showing dignity and humanity to the people who live on the margins of society. Infinite Wealth starts with a promising take on that theme, then mostly drops the notion as it's more concerned about chasing mysteries and plot twists that lack the bite and emotional pull that the series has historically done so well. Going to Hawaii opens up a variety of ways to reinforce the ethos established by the previous game, but instead it too often plays on the location for gags or to create an excuse to beat on big-bad others who simply exist to be punching bags. Much like the concept of language barriers being a fascinating narrative theme, which gets dropped shortly after it's introduced, it feels like Infinite Wealth bit off more than it could chew and had to roll with undercooked execution in the end.
In my review of Yakuza: Like A Dragon from 2020, I said the future of the series was in good hands with Ichiban as the new lead, and I still believe that because there's still plenty to adore about him. For as inconsistent as Infinite Wealth is in reaching the heights of its predecessors, it delivers fragmented but unforgettable moments for those who've been on the Yakuza ride all this time. This sequel proves that RGG is a legitimate player in the RPG space with a vastly improved combat system that is so uniquely representative of the series' identity that it feels like a perfect fit, and it's used to great effect by simply spotlighting its fantastic supporting characters. As a swan song for Kiryu, I'm conflicted on how it all comes together, but it's impossible not to get emotional about the ways it lends a deserved weight to his legacy. So, I'm not going to remember this game for its villains, their motivations, or the reasons for fighting in Hawaii, but I will remember it for the wild Yakuza hijinks and the sobering messages about what we do with the time we have left.
I'll admit upfront: I missed Another Code (known in North America as Trace Memory) when it first came out on Nintendo DS. Despite voraciously consuming other DS adventure games like Phoenix Wright, Ghost Trick, 999, and original Another Code developer Cing's other title, Hotel Dusk, Another Code just slipped by me. And with the sequel, Another Code R, being a European Wii exclusive, catching up there wasn't easy to do. So when Nintendo announced remakes of the two Another Code games for Switch, I was eager to correct those wrongs and see what the now-sadly-defunct Cing had put together. To my surprise, Recollection is fundamentally different from the originals in a number of ways--all-new visuals and updated puzzles, for example--and these quality of life improvements helped me appreciate the original game's supernatural mysteries.
Another Code Recollection puts you in the role of Ashley, a young girl who tragically lost her mother at a very young age. Haunted by disturbing memories she can't fully recall, Ashley receives an invite to a secluded island to meet with her long-absent father, and a strange-looking portable device called the DAS. On the island, she finds a well-preserved old mansion and a very unusual friend who also shares her lack of memory… but no dad. In the second part of the game, an older Ashley is invited to Lake Juliet for a camping trip that immediately goes south when her bag is pilfered. In the quest to get back her stuff, Ashley discovers the truths and tragedies of a conspiracy in the background of this placid lake.
Ashley is a sympathetic character whose teenage angst over her absent parents is understandable. A lot of fictional teens can come off as obnoxious and self-centered, but Ashley's complex feelings towards her absentee father are very relatable, as is her lingering trauma from the loss of her mother, and seeing her confront these issues over the course of the game and grow from them makes for great character development. The amount of characterization and background of the supporting cast varies by how big their role in the story is--D, your ethereal friend in part 1, gets significantly more background and development than most of part 2's cast--but nobody comes off as particularly badly handled.
Both episodes are entertaining and the themes of memories, loss, and tragedy are handled quite well, with an overall message of needing to face the pain of your past head-on. The relaxed pacing and surprisingly down-to-earth feel (even with sci-fi and supernatural elements) is a nice contrast to the loud melodrama of many bigger titles. However, as a collection of mystery stories, Recollections lacks that special quality that really good mystery and suspense stories have: the spark that constantly pushes you to keep going to get to the next juicy revelation or confirm your theories. While the overall laid-back feel here is pleasant, it gets in the way during those times when the game really is trying to up tension late in both episodes: it doesn't feel genuine. For example: At one point you run into a strange building looking for Ashley's aunt who seemed to be in danger, but the period of slow-paced exploration that follows doesn't give real urgency to it. As a result, you have an overall story that flows well and successfully conveys its themes, but doesn't leave a lasting impact the way many of the best adventure games do.
Another Code Recollection focuses on exploration over action and carries the player through a mostly-linear narrative with a few more open investigation bits. The DAS (and another gadget you acquire later) comes in handy during investigations, as it organizes all of the people you meet and their relationships, allows you to take photos for reference, keeps track of optional collectibles, and has a few other useful plot-important functions that venture into spoiler territory. Along the way, you'll be solving a variety of logic puzzles with the aid of numerous found environmental items--keys, emblems, tools, documents, the usual adventure-game staples. You'll utilize the multi-functionality of the DAS for some puzzles, taking photos, storing data, figuring out passwords, and even doing a bit of good old-fashioned hacking to progress. Some puzzles also take advantage of the gyro functions of the Switch Joy-Cons, requiring you to tilt to shake an object loose or roll a round ball into place. They're enjoyable and don't venture too far into the realm of outlandish solutions (though you'll probably wonder why so many characters are very bad at password security).
Recollection doesn't take the route of a basic remaster for these two games: it's a full-fledged remake, complete with all-new 3D visuals, lots of voice acting for central characters, and cinematic cutscenes for key story moments. The voiceover is well done (aside from a handful of awkward takes) and lends even the side characters, like the boat captain and the wannabe garage bandmates, an extra dash of personality, and the cutscenes never feel overly long or out-of-place. The melodic, atmospheric soundtrack also adds a pleasant backdrop to Ashley's exploration.
The same praise can't be given to the visuals, however: while the character models look great, the backgrounds suffer from some shockingly muddy, low-res textures and painfully low-poly models. This game was never meant as a visual showcase, but with how much time you spend investigating various locales, it's impossible not to notice how gross many textures look. Given developer Arc System Works' history of amazing visuals in their recent projects, the ugly backgrounds are a disappointment.
Recollection also redoes elements of the game's puzzles and story. The overall narrative beats of the plot remain the same as the original games, though there are a fair few new surprises for series veterans. And if you're going into these games with an old Another Code or Another Code R walkthrough in hand, you'll find them completely useless, as all of the old puzzles have been scrapped and replaced with new brain teasers. Don't worry too much if you're not the best puzzle-solver, though, as intuitive hints and next-goal functionalities have been added to the game, and can be turned on and off as you please. The hint function is especially nice, offering a three-step aid: the first two hints are pointers in the right direction, while the third is the solution.

Since I'm a newcomer to the series, I can't really say how longtime fans will feel about the puzzle and narrative changes. I can say, however, that I found most of the puzzles to be at a very comfortable challenge level: none of them felt poorly designed or particularly obtuse. The only elements I disliked were some puzzles where you had to refer back-and-forth to photos you'd taken or mash through dialogue boxes when switching from one element (the DAS, map, or item screen) to the other. Generally, if I felt lost during a puzzle, a simple hint was enough to get me on the right track.
The word that really sticks in my mind when describing Another Code Recollection is "pleasant." I never felt particularly annoyed at any point while I was playing, but I never felt a particularly strong sense of engagement, either. I just happily rode along with Ashley on her journey of self-discovery and mystery-solving until we both reached the end. I doubt I'll remember much about the game a couple of years from now, but it was a sweet little escape on a cold winter week. And sometimes, that's all a game really needs to be.
Within its long history, Prince of Persia has always been better at leading than following. Its original trailblazing release in 1989 set a new standard for fluid animation and death-defying platforming, and the acclaimed Sands of Time was deservedly praised for its innovative parkour-inspired 3D traversal. Series entries that attempt to chase trends like the gritty Warrior Within, on the other hand, have been less than successful. Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown is the series' first attempt at a modernized metroidvania, which could have easily fallen into the category of competent imitators. But with impactful combat, silky platforming, and innovative exploration mechanics, this latest Prince of Persia makes the series a leader in its class once again.
Breaking with tradition, the eponymous prince in this case is not actually the player-character himself. Instead you play as Sargon, the youngest member of the Immortals--a sort of Persian royal guard by way of Avengers-like superheroes. When a member of your clan betrays the order by kidnapping the Prince and taking him to the mysterious and cursed Mount Qaf, the Immortals give chase to rescue him. The setting allows the story to pay homage to Persian mythology like the benevolent god Simurgh, but this is a very stylized take that doesn't seem concerned with meticulously setting itself at any specific point in history. It's a pastiche that blends history and mythology with hyper-stylized visual flourishes inspired by anime and comic books.
Mount Qaf is an elaborate setting for The Lost Crown, encompassing ancient temples, catacombs, royal libraries, caverns, and more. It was once the heart of the kingdom but has fallen into disrepair following the death of the wise King Darius. And as a cursed mountain, the few remaining inhabitants talk as if they are living outside of the sequential flow of time, frequently referencing things that happened either too long ago, or not yet.
This narrative supports the three main pillars of gameplay: combat, platforming, and puzzle-solving. Mount Qaf is rife with monsters and the shambling remains of guards, and the lore establishes that it was built with death traps and puzzles to keep out invaders and protect the king. What's most striking about these pillars is that, while each of them are refined and essential pieces in themselves, the blend of all three together lets you flex different gameplay muscles as you switch from combat to platforming to puzzles at a brisk pace.
Combat is snappy and challenging, giving you a suite of attacks, dodges, and parries and then slowly peppering in new combat abilities, letting you find inventive ways to incorporate your traversal skills into your ever-expanding arsenal. The ability to create a shadow-copy that you can teleport to has obvious traversal implications, for example, but it also gets specialized combat functions as well. What begins as a fairly simple 1-2-3 timed combo system with some light parrying quickly turns into an acrobatic tour de force as you manage the battlefield with deadly grace. Boss battles are massive spectacles, ranging from chipping at enormous beasts to dueling formidable human foes with anime-inspired finishers to your special attacks. And hitting a perfect counter rewards you with not just damage, but the satisfaction of seeing a unique cinematic flourish that is tailored to each enemy.
Combat factors heavily into the equipment system, a necklace of amulets that let you customize Sargon to your liking in various ways, but primarily in the context of combat. You can expand the necklace with collectibles to equip more amulets, and I found it flexible enough to accommodate a wide array of playstyles, accenting your strengths and smoothing over your weaknesses. My own loadout ended up leaning heavily into maintaining a high health total with life regain through parries, and a bonus for attacking at full health. But another could focus on successful dodges, or getting bonuses out of special moves like a time bubble or shockwave.
Movement is similarly nuanced and natural. As you increase your abilities, you become more acrobatic and airborne until the point that you can clear a room while barely touching the ground. The platforming feels so natural, in fact, that it finds the elusive sweet spot of metroidvanias where you sometimes aren't sure if you need another ability, or if you can just get good enough to pull off a platforming challenge already.
The challenges rise to meet your newfound agility, with the regular appearance of breathless platforming rooms that require pitch-perfect timing to every nimble leap and dodge. I say the word "breathless" literally, as I would often find myself realizing I had unconsciously held my breath while making my way through one. Many of these are optional, with a hidden piece of specialized currency tucked in the toughest part of an area. That currency, called Xerxes, will fly back to its original location if you die and only becomes yours to keep if you make it through the challenge and successfully touch safe ground again, similar to the tough-as-nails platformer Celeste. It's too bad that these challenge coins have fairly limited utility in the game's economy, as they're mostly reserved for a single vendor with only a few appealing baubles.
The puzzles are the weakest of the three pillars, but only barely. They are primarily an extension of the platforming, because even once you know the solution, you'll often need to rely on precise timing and nimble reflexes to solve them. I never struggled with a solution enough to feel frustrated by not understanding it, but I did occasionally get annoyed when I had to repeatedly attempt to execute the solution I had already figured out.
All of this would be for nothing if exploring the location--the heart of any metroidvania--weren't fun and engaging on its own terms. But the setting is fantastic, with imaginative, varied biomes that look gorgeous and vibrant. From majestic man-made structures to earthy caverns accented with bright crystalline patterns and even a wrecked shipyard frozen in time, it's a constant joy to explore a new area, discover new powers, and re-explore to find hidden pockets that you left behind before. One section even seems directly inspired by Metroid Dread, introducing a looming, invincible enemy that hunts you.
And it's in this facet--the metroidvania exploration--that Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown finds the most room for innovation. Chief among these is Memory Shards, a reusable resource that maps a single button press to taking a screenshot of your current location and marking its location on your map. In a genre defined by constantly presenting you with areas you can't yet reach, this is an absolute game-changer. It emulates the feeling of drawing your own maps in the back of a game manual and taking notes on the symbols you see, but modernized and automated in a way that is clean and intuitive. You can expand your stock of Memory Shards by finding collectibles in the open world, letting the exploration aspect feed back into itself.
The Memory Shards system is helpful without feeling over-generous, which is true of many of The Lost Crown's quality-of-life features. Save points are marked by Wak-Wak trees, and you can see their ethereal, glowing trails as you get close to help subtly guide you toward them. A Guided option will point you in the right direction of your next story objective or let you know if a gate is closed off with your current abilities, but it doesn't hold your hand, so you still feel the joy of exploring. You can buy maps of new areas for a token price, but you can also simply abstain and explore to fill out the map yourself. The combat difficulty is similarly flexible, composed of recommended Rookie, Warrior, Hero, and Immortal difficulty settings, along with sliders for various combat elements. You can turn enemy damage or your own up or down, extend your parry and dodge timing, and more to your liking. All of it seems made to meet you where you are without compromising what makes it feel engaging and active.
All of this is in service of a story that has compelling characters and some interesting ideas, but often becomes too muddied for its own good. The supernatural setting of Mount Qaf lets the story imply a lot of mysterious questions without many clear answers about how time works here and what exactly is happening, so it often feels as if magic is being treated like a crutch. Sargon is a dynamic and relatable hero and the ultimate villain is sympathetic, but many of the tertiary characters are barely developed or even disappear almost entirely. And the writing is best in the moments when it's as hyper-stylized as the action, as opposed to those where it ventures into over-seriousness. I cared about these characters and I'd like to see more of them, but the plot itself was less compelling.
Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown is a sea change for the long-running series, and almost as dramatic a shift as Sands of Time was when it took the classic platformer series into 3D. This new genre debut is so confident and impeccably crafted that this should simply be the identity of Prince of Persia for the foreseeable future. Nearly every part of Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown works so well, and the parts connect so seamlessly, that it feels as if the series has found its new genre home.
I wasn't sold on The Finals after playing my first match. A single game obviously isn't enough time to come to any worthwhile conclusions, but still, after playing through its brief tutorial--which does a poor job of explaining the game's concepts--I initially felt lost and underwhelmed. Fortunately, this feeling didn't last, and after a few more games, The Finals had its hooks dug in deep. As a fan of the Battlefield series, this wasn't much of a surprise; The Finals is a team-based first-person-shooter with an emphasis on destruction and mayhem, developed by Embark Studios, which counts a number of Battlefield alumni among its ranks. The two games aren't at all similar in a broader sense, but Battlefield's DNA is present throughout, from its snappy shooting to its chaotic destruction.
One key difference between The Finals and most other competitive shooters is that it pits multiple teams of three players against each other, either in 3v3v3 or 3v3v3v3 matches. This multi-team setup leads to a consistent stream of dynamic firefights as each squad vies for control of The Finals' all-important cash. You end up fighting the defending team as they desperately try to hold on, while also scrapping with your fellow attackers, contributing to the game's palpable sense of outright bedlam. It's a vibrant and colorful shooter, too, augmenting its over-the-top action with a game-show-infused style, featuring a rambunctious crowd and excitable play-by-play announcers. Think 1987's The Running Man but with frantic gun battles. The controversial implementation of AI voicework is the only sore topic relating to the game's aesthetic. It's not particularly noticeable, but each line is fairly one-note so the AI doesn't have to extend itself, and either way, its use still feels gross.
There are currently two main modes to facilitate all of this chaos. Quick Cash sees three teams battling for possession of a vault filled with money, which must then be taken to a designated Cashout Station to be deposited. It's kind of like a mixture between Capture the Flag and King of the Hill, typically resulting in all three squads converging on one location for an all-out slaughter. Whoever inserts the vault into the Cashout Station starts a timer that'll bank all of the cash when it runs out, but any of the other teams can steal the deposit without resetting the countdown's progress. This quickly establishes a thrilling sense of forward momentum, primarily because it eliminates the possibility of a stalemate and ensures that the action maintains its rapid pace. There are few moments as satisfying as managing to steal the Cashout Point at the last possible second and banking all of the winnings for your team. The only thing that comes close is successfully fighting back the hordes and defending the point for a prolonged period of time as the world comes crashing down around you.
Bank It is The Finals' other game mode, focusing more on straight-up combat than Quick Cash does. There are still vaults you can bust into to quickly accrue a load of cash, but every player also begins each life with money already in their virtual pockets. Each time you die, this money drops to the floor for anyone to pick up, whether you're carrying the money you started with or stocked up on cash after breaking into a vault and robbing other players of theirs. The idea is to deposit this cash before potentially dying and losing it all, so you have to consider when to go for more kills and when to break away and bank your loot before it goes to waste. It's possible to win a match without ever looting a vault, choosing instead to kill and steal from those who already have. The addition of a fourth team also increases the probability that a mass firefight will break out at any time, adding to Bank It's more turbulent nature.
Once you've played a certain number of games, you're allowed access to The Finals' Tournament mode, which features a more competitive version of Quick Cash with a few modified rule changes. Here, two matches are played concurrently, with the best two teams in each match advancing to a second knockout round where they'll face one another. Finish in the top two here and you'll move on to the titular finals, culminating in the best two teams facing off to see who can emerge victorious and win the entire tournament. By playing significantly more matches, you're also able to unlock a ranked version of this mode, featuring more knockout rounds, rankings to ascend based on performance, and end-of-season rewards. These matches are quick and riveting enough that even if you're eliminated in the first round, it's difficult to resist jumping straight back in to try again. The only downside is a lengthy respawn timer that can feel a tad too long considering how fast and frenetic everything is, even if it's necessary to aid the game's balance. This is present throughout but is especially prolonged in Tournament mode when your team wipes.
Each mode takes familiar elements from other multiplayer shooters and morphs them into a fresh amalgamation, but it's The Finals' comprehensive destruction that really sets it apart. Pretty much any wall can be blown open with explosives. You can destroy bridges, topple entire buildings by taking out load-bearing walls, or blow open a roof to descend from above. Gadgets like goo guns let you construct temporary bridges or barricades to circumnavigate any destroyed infrastructure, while grappling hooks and portable jump pads provide other ways to traverse The Finals' destructible maps. All of this affords the game a cavalcade of player agency and creativity, especially when it comes to competing for the objective. You might be able to barricade a room with shields, goo, and mines, but that matters little if one of the other teams is able to blow open the ceiling from below and send the Cashout Point tumbling to a lower floor. There's innovation behind this destruction, too, as it all occurs server-side. This prevents any performance issues from occurring each time a building pancakes to the ground since it's not relying on your own hardware.
The maps themselves are all based on real-world locations such as Las Vegas, Monaco, and Seoul. Each one features expansive exteriors and compact interiors, with a good mix of high and low points. Ziplines, ladders, and jump pads provide options for scaling these vertical spaces, while random game show modifiers like meteor showers, orbital lasers, and lava can shake up the latter stages of a match. Each map also has a number of variants, whether that's introducing a sandstorm to hamper your vision or dropping a giant inflatable duck on one section of the arena. With only four maps, though, it does feel a bit sparse.
The moment-to-moment action does paper over the downsides of its limited map selection somewhat. Movement and shooting feel slick, with a plethora of distinct weapons for you to utilize, from assault rifles and SMGs to a katana and sledgehammer. There are three different weight classes to play as--light, medium, and heavy--and each one has its own arsenal of weapons and gadgets that makes them feel unique. The light class, for instance, is typically nimble, trading stopping power and a larger health pool for speed and the mobility to get in and out of combat in an instant. Medium is the all-rounder, with gadgets and abilities that focus on support, such as a defibrillator and healing beam. The heavy class, meanwhile, is a slow but tough brute, able to charge through walls and trade damage while peppering you with LMG fire. The latter tends to be omnipresent in Tournament mode, as their large health bar and heavy damage are certainly appealing. The light class is much rarer, presumably because it can be a struggle to stay alive until you unlock either the dash or invisibility cloak. So there are some notable balance issues to sort out.
All of the weapons and gadgets you can take into a match are solidly varied, but earning the in-game cash you need to unlock them is a drawn-out experience that saps away the satisfaction you ideally want from a progression system. It's a glacial pace that makes it incredibly difficult to experiment with different builds when so much of it is locked behind hours and hours of gameplay. Like most other free-to-play shooters, The Finals also features a battle pass containing a litany of cosmetic items. The best you can hope for without spending any money is a bucket hat and fanny pack, but nothing restricted to the paid battle pass or other premium cosmetics offers a competitive advantage, so there aren't any pay-to-win options.
This is crucial because the competitive shooter space is a crowded one. For every success story, there's another example of a game unfortunately fizzling out and dying. The Finals stands out amongst its contemporaries thanks to its thrilling destruction, fast-paced gunplay, and anomalous approach to familiar objectives. There are some balancing issues to iron out, its progression system needs expediting, and there are too few maps, but these flaws are ultimately minor when you're in the thick of the action with explosions and gunfire echoing all around you. The Finals is an absurdly fun shooter with the potential to grow, so here's hoping it's one of the success stories.
The first time I played Arizona Sunshine 2, I left feeling a bit nauseated, but I soon realized this was due to my time spent away from playing VR games. The second time I played Arizona Sunshine 2, I was quickly overwhelmed by its hordes of undead and left feeling like the game was perhaps unbalanced. By the third time I put on my Quest 3 headset, I'd rediscovered my proverbial sea legs, I'd mastered the art of zombie crowd control, and I enjoyed the game for what it is: an arcadey trek through the apocalypse.
In the VR-exclusive first-person zombie shooter Arizona Sunshine 2, you'll take on the role of the original game's hero for another excursion through an undead hellscape of airports, sewage tunnels, and rooftop parking lots, each of them loaded with ammo and "Freds"--the too-jokey protagonist's word for zombies--in similar quantities. The game's intentions are clear right away: This isn't the sort of game where you'll need to worry about ammo reserves very often. This is a power fantasy, though not without plenty of tension, too.
Arizona Sunshine 2 shines brightest is in those moments when you're tasked with clearing out intimidatingly large hordes of zombies. As mentioned, at first I found this so difficult that I assumed I failed to account for something--a skill move, or a control option, or something. It turns out I just needed a little practice. Like a lot of VR shooters, you can do yourself huge favors by mastering the reload animation. Initially I fumbled around with that mechanic, which caused me to take more than a few bites to the jugular, but it didn't take long before I mowed through undead like a John Wick Halloween spin-off.
That's thanks in large part to the great shooting mechanics. Lining up shots and clearing rooms is a consistent joy because it's reliable and powerful. Strewn about most levels are different guns with their own firing patterns. At first, I traded one pistol for another slightly different one, or a revolver. But later levels add SMGs, shotguns, and the type of variety you'd expect from a game that hangs its hat (headset?) on dispatching Freds a dozen at a time. On an easier difficulty, the guns come equipped with red dot sights, too, which I actually enjoyed as an added mechanic. I found myself switching between that and normal difficulty just to better appreciate the times I had such an advantage, while still trying to improve my aim without that aid. I found that this practice actually did help me do just that, too, which wound up feeling really satisfying.
But the gunplay was already good in the first game, so what does the sequel add? The answer to that question quickly becomes apparent--and it is two-fold. The more typical addition comes in the form of melee weapons, which are easily breakable but usually serve well as an alternate attack mode for a few mushy craniums at a time before they need to be abandoned. Unlike something like The Walking Dead: Saints & Sinners, which tends to skew toward realism to the extent that your screwdriver can get jammed inside of a zombie's skull, in AS2, melee attacks are more arcadey, once again fulfilling that power fantasy. Here, beheading zombies feels more like Fruit Ninja than a punishing lesson in sharpness and physics.
But the change that stands tallest actually stands on four legs. Buddy the dog becomes your sidekick for the duration of the game, and the well-trained good boy is a lifesaver--literally--quite often. Getting past those early hordes that gave me trouble basically came down to learning to trust Buddy and sending him leaping for the decaying faces of the zombies heading my way. Buddy's commands behave almost like a Swiss army knife for the protagonist. You can have him attack zombies, thus slowing them down or even killing them so you don't have to. He can also fetch items you otherwise couldn't reach like ammo or keys, and he can also help solve puzzles, usually using a similar fetching mechanic.
These puzzles never go beyond simplistic, but they help fill in the levels with more than shooting galleries, breaking up the pacing and giving me much-needed breathers every so often. It was through Buddy that I learned how to tame a horde and enter my John Wick flow state, sending him to the left while I'd headshot a few zombies on the right, chop off a few limbs with satisfying direction-based melee combat, and move through the now opened path. I'd then turn around in the doorway upon my exit to immobilize the remaining few while Buddy would bark and return to me like he deserved a treat--and clearly he did, based on the scene we'd left in our wake.
The inclusion of Buddy means more complicated attack patterns with more classes of zombies are possible, and that variety becomes a strength of the game, especially when paired with the ample set-pieces that tended to limit my freedom of movement in order to sell a key moment of the action, like driving across an airport on a lift, or performing something akin to a concert for fans who, despite their undeath, seemed quite lively in the moment.
Even with plenty of ammo, rock-solid shooting mechanics, and the help of Buddy, these scenes managed to be tense because once a zombie does get in your face, it can be very hard to overcome. I found myself counting bullets as I fired them off so I always knew when to reload, which fulfills the sort of zombie fantasy I look for in every game featuring the undead.
If ever this setup isn't enough, you can once again play the entire story mode in online co-op with one other player. Nothing fundamentally changes, for better or worse, though it does benefit from my general belief that most everything in games is better in co-op. There are exceptions, but AS2 isn't one of them. The arcade-like shooter is a natural fit for a friend, even as the game already provides one on four legs. The only issue co-op creates is a narrative one; you're the "sole survivor" according to the plot, which is already rudely dismissive of Buddy's existence, but this moniker is further nonsensical when you consider the co-op pal that can accompany you.
Still, this isn't likely a game most play for the story, which is a good thing since the story is its weakest aspect by far. Like in the first game, the protagonist is a wise-cracking, foul-mouthed dude whose entire personality is revealed by way of bad jokes that annoyed me throughout the game. That problem is exacerbated by just how frequently he speaks. AS2 is a game that suffers from the very video-gamey thing of having a character talk to themselves far too often as a way to guide the player. If he either spoke less or didn't make me cringe, I'd have found this less distracting, but these issues as a pair soured some of the good times I was otherwise having. The story is also devoid of any surprises. I mentally jotted down where I thought the story would go from the first level, and it essentially played out just as I expected. Given the game wants to be an adventure more than an actual shooting gallery, the lack of stakes and stunning moments winds up dampening the levels in a way the gameplay never does.
Arizona Sunshine 2 is not the mythical killer app that will finally get people to believe in VR. But it's certainly the kind of sequel that goes bigger than its predecessor and is better for it. It almost feels like a tall order to ask people to still care about zombies and VR in 2023 when so many seem to have shrugged them both off years ago. But I'm not such a person, and if you're like me, you'll find Arizona Sunshine 2 is an enjoyable, albeit predictable, road trip through the apocalypse.
Before starting Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora, I was reminded of what I think of when considering any open-world game: Killscreen's review of Fallout 4 by Chris Breault, and the opening line, "Here comes the trashman!" Breault discusses an experience of constantly picking up and covering yourself in the garbage scattered around that game's massive world. It's a description that feels highly applicable to most open-world games--huge, but full of refuse that you spend endless hours picking through and carting around, only to replace it with newer, better garbage. Most open-world games are too concerned with filling their worlds, both literally and metaphorically, with a deluge of needless stuff, and it’s why I find the genre can be off-putting.
It's the fear of that torrent of trash that made Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora surprisingly refreshing and also endearing. Frontiers pushes aside some of the concerns about sifting through heaps of junk and clearing incessant icons from your HUD by keeping your screen clear so you can appreciate its gorgeous vistas and strange creatures, thus encouraging you to take in and understand the world around you. Though it still has a lot of open-world staples, like numerous activities and an expansive crafting system, it manages to incorporate them as systems that enhance an overarching feeling of exploration and discovery, and it never bombards you with them. These elements feel like they're meant to help you experience the world itself, instead of just filling it up with more litter.
Two things make Frontiers of Pandora work: its incredible setting and its alien protagonist. I've never had much more than a passing interest in the Avatar films, but Pandora, the lush alien world on which they take place, is an outstanding location to set a video game. It's an enormous and strange place, filled with alien plants, creatures that glow in darkness, and wildlife that towers over the landscape.
The setting empowers developers at Massive Entertainment with the freedom to use or imagine landscapes that are always fascinating to explore. The scale of elements like colorful forests or enormous mountains that float in the air is often arresting, and the alien flora that might spit out spores that make you run faster or reach out with electrified tentacles if you get too close make these more than fields you sprint through to get to wherever you're headed next. You really feel like you're discovering Pandora as you work through the game, and its unfamiliar nature helps keep this process engaging. That's amplified even more by the fact that Frontiers of Pandora is absolutely beautiful, with art direction that further enhances its landscapes with impossible rock formations and bright neon colors, bringing a distinct vibrancy to its lush world.
These environments are greatly served by the fact that you play as a Na'vi, one of the 10-foot-tall blue alien people who populate Pandora. Your size and physical prowess give you a natural speed and strength, allowing you to sprint over and climb things with relative ease. Pandora is sprinkled with huge mushrooms, massive snaking roots, and retracting vines that give you a wealth of traversal options for reaching its many heights. The world is not only stunning, but a blast to run around in, and your parkour-like abilities let you turn forests, mountains, and enemy bases into playgrounds to leap around.
Frontiers of Pandora takes place in the same timeline as the movie's story but is set on another continent, and it uses that independence to go in some interesting directions. The RDA, a massive Earth corporation, has invaded Pandora in hopes of exploiting and colonizing it. You play as a Na'vi who was raised by humans but escapes with RDA defectors to create a resistance movement, putting you on the familiar, Far Cry-like path of seeking out and working with other Na'vi clans to build a coalition against the invaders. It's a premise that works well to give your protagonist a nascent connection to Pandora that you develop over time, putting you in a position to learn about the world while the story explores ideas of identity, belonging, and colonialism.

Throughout Frontiers, you're fighting the technologically superior humans who use mech suits, assault rifles, and VTOLs, while destroying their massive, polluting industrialized facilities. Those familiar with Ubisoft's long-running Far Cry series will recognize the overall vibe of Avatar's approach to combat, but Massive has found smart ways to iterate on the Ubisoft open-world formula to better serve the Avatar setting. Combat encounters are almost always a mix of straight fighting with a variety of weapons and using stealth to gain an advantage over your opponents. Where Frontiers steps away from tried-and-true Ubisoft ideas is in the mismatch between human enemies and your Na'vi protagonist.
The RDA outclasses you in terms of weapons and numbers, and you can't really stand your ground against them--assault rifles tear through Na'vi just as easily as they do humans. Instead, you have to rely on quick movement and quicker thinking for success in combat. Your Na'vi abilities let you dash around the battlefield to find cover or climb above enemies, allowing you to quickly reposition yourself to nail a mech suit's vulnerable heat vents or snipe an explosive tank near a band of soldiers.
The hit-and-run aspect of combat is further amplified by the fact that everything is built for six-foot-tall humans, but you're a 10-foot-tall alien. Running around enemy bases, sliding through low doorways, and leaping onto high catwalks gives every battle a fast-paced novelty that has you constantly assessing your surroundings for a new spot to regroup or give yourself an edge. You're too big for most places, which carries advantages and disadvantages, and changes how you might otherwise think about these spaces.
This approach to combat makes classic Ubisoft open-world elements like assaulting a slew of enemy bases feel fun and fresh because, while the spaces are familiar, they're much more open and inviting thanks to your means of traversing them. Massive also shakes up the formula familiar to Far Cry fans with requirements that go well beyond the usual "kill every enemy in a base in order to take it over" objectives. Instead, your goal is to destroy the RDA's machinery, often by flipping switches, sabotaging generators, hacking computers, and blowing up cooling vents. Doing these things without setting off any RDA alarms earns you better rewards, encouraging thoughtful and often stealthy approaches that further push you to understand the environment and find novel uses for it.
Combat is generally fast and exciting, but it's at its best in large areas with a lot of variety to the geography. Enclosed spaces like the interiors of RDA bases, which you'll find yourself in throughout the story campaign, are more hit-and-miss depending on their design. The RDA tends to be highly threatening, dumping ammo on you from lots of directions seemingly with no requirement to reload, and while your health regenerates over time and you can heal yourself instantly with a limited number of health packs, you still get shredded by guns. If a space is too small or doesn't provide many opportunities to reposition for safety, it starts to feel oppressive and irritating. This is coupled with the fact that your weapons fire slowly, as in the case of bows, or have fairly small magazines, like the assault rifle, so you're never in a position to straight-up overpower a foe. In areas that cut your movement capabilities, you're the fish in the barrel.
Most of the time, though, you feel like a guerrilla-fighting savant as you do things like sneak up, hack a mech, short it out, and then yank out its driver. Success in combat also relies on using the right weapon for the job of blowing up weak points or hitting a target at a certain range, and Frontiers of Pandora generally rewards you for thinking critically and acting decisively in engagements. Along with its fast and fluid movement and improvisational nature, you get the sense of being a highly effective fighter, without necessarily being overpowered and unstoppable.
Frontiers' story is interesting as it ramps up the battle with the RDA, especially in its later hours as the stakes rise. But it also often has the open-world problem of spreading you a little too thin, making it tough to remember the names of characters and what their deal is, especially a few hours after initial contact. Some folks are relegated to side quests that you might not have played, giving them a disposable quality to their character. On a couple of occasions, potentially emotional moments where my character was worried or upset about someone left me asking, "Wait, who?"
That said, the main story has some very well-crafted moments. Climbing the ikran rookery, where you get one of Avatar's flying dinosaur creatures to ride for the rest of the game, is a testament to the game's excellent movement systems. It's a lengthy platforming segment that leads you high into the floating mountains and rewards you with something memorable. A few missions send you into huge RDA bases to sneak and sabotage in a way that would be right at home in dedicated stealth-action games. Frontiers of Pandora often is just as adept at impressive and over-the-top cinematic story moments as it is with its ambient open-world systems.
When you're not fighting the RDA, you're engaging more directly with Pandora, and the game keeps things compelling by pushing you to consider the world around you, rather than dumping a mess of map markers and HUD waypoints to guide you. You're sent to mission objectives and crafting materials by written directions that reference your compass, landmarks, and place names, which helps make the world feel more like a place you're a part of, rather than a landscape you're just passing over.
Na'vi vision, an ability that highlights certain things in the environment, is key to discoveries. You'll use it all the time--it shows you enemies through walls, picks out which plants you can forage from, and brings up a single, mission-specific waypoint that helps you get where you're going without constantly pulling up your map. It's an inclusion that has its ups and downs: On one hand, it moves you closer to the idea of feeling like a Na'vi, helping you function as a hunter and gatherer on Pandora, and provides a combat advantage fights would probably be too difficult and annoying without. On the other hand, you'll activate Na'vi vision almost constantly to do just about everything, which makes it feel like a crutch that undercuts the otherwise quite minimalistic approach to the UI.
The Na'vi vision and directions systems pair well with Frontiers of Pandora's big emphasis on crafting, which is how you improve your character to take on tougher creatures, enemies, and story missions. Despite crafting being a big part of the game, it relies a lot less on the junk collection and annoying busywork that is common in open-world games. You'll craft a lot of gear using recipes unlocked from vendors in different Na'vi and human settlements, but you don't have to hunt and skin 10 boars just to make a new wallet. Instead, each new weapon or piece of armor only requires two items, such as a plant root and a predator tooth, to make. The quality of the item--how much damage it does or how much health it grants you--is determined by the quality of the ingredients you use.
This approach keeps crafting from being a slog while still incentivizing you to forage and hunt for better items, which is itself in keeping with the overall idea of learning to live and survive on Pandora. The game provides you with the information for where better materials can be found but expects you to track them down yourself. You can craft the same piece of armor over and over again with different materials, so you're fully capable of enhancing your gear at almost any point. Picking plants or peeling bark from a tree without damaging it also requires you to find the right angle from which to pull, and with a controller, that means gauging the rumble of your controller while you move the analog stick around to find the sweet spot. It's a small minigame but helps make the act of gathering material more active and interesting.
Not every attempt to emphasize exploration and figuring things out yourself works, though. Story missions and side quests will often send you to investigate a location in hopes of finding a missing person or uncovering what the RDA was up to. Your vision highlights things in the environment like footprints and discarded objects, and you have to scan each clue for information and then select two related clues in succession so your character can draw some conclusions.
It's a system that rarely feels intuitive; the clues almost always all seem related, or it can be tough to guess exactly which two the developers want you to pick, usually leading to an unsatisfying trial-and-error process. Investigations are never complicated, so it's simple enough to brute-force them when you're not getting it, but that just undercuts the idea of using your skills to figure things out even more. Sometimes, clues are small or found somewhere that's not obvious, so you'll wander around for five minutes, staring at the ground, wondering what you're missing. And these investigations almost always come to the same conclusion of providing you with a trail to follow using your Na'vi vision. Investigations are a fun idea that are meant to make you feel like a skilled tracker, but they never quite pay off in a satisfying way.
Still, most of Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora's work to emphasize its open world is very effective. Pandora is often magnificent, and I stopped repeatedly just to look around and take it in. Diverting from a goal to gather up some armor bark and bow string or blow up an industrial facility were fun detours and felt like an important part of existence there. Best of all, I never felt like an open-world trashman, dumping junk on the way to the next map marker. Instead, Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora made me feel like I was adventuring in a place worth exploring, and I'm eager to go back.
As previously mentioned, you will be fighting each of Jala's exes throughout the game in turn-based combat, leveling up stats, learning new skills to make fights easier, and using summons that can be unlocked through sidequests or the main story. Each fight is a conversation, a puzzle, and a battle in one where the objective is to discover the weakness of an opponent through a process of trial and error. Once you've identified that weakness, you can inflict status ailments or deal additional damage to chip away at their health. The RPG mechanics and the process of exploring and exploiting weakness are presented as a back-and-forth between Jala and her interlocutor where old wounds are reopened and issues are hashed out until the dynamic between them evolves or resolves. This system manages to work in the foundational element of RPGs but cleverly rethinks it to also give it narrative weight. The trial and error process is one of picking dialogue options, and these can have an impact beyond the battle too. Make the right decisions and you'll come up with a plan that'll pinpoint the enemies' weaknesses through taunts, so you can easily trounce them with the use of the correct skills.
Jala's initial ambition and awareness of her wrongdoings are unique for the main character of an RPG, let alone one spearheaded by a queer South Asian woman. Jala conveys her self-awareness by internalizing that she is the one at fault in all of her previous relationships, which manifests in the game as a banter between herself and a narrator. The narrator is a voice she has conjured up that is reminiscent of her sister, Aruni, in looks, voice, and tone. This, it turns out, is also a way for Jala to grapple with her strained relationship with her sister while still having guidance internally. The dialogue between them had me laughing throughout the game's 17-hour runtime. The snide, direct, and reassuring nature of this narrator figure allows Jala to convey her struggles effectively by presenting these challenges to another entity in a candid way. The Narrator offers the guidance she seeks throughout the game even though her actual sister avoids confronting Jala. Each of Jala's exes also has a coping mechanism such as Irfan and what other characters call his “obsession with his cat” to the point of carrying his pet around wherever he goes.
Conversations with other characters, like family members or exes, give you different dialogue choices that will determine Jala's stats and build, and will shape how a given narrative moment plays out. The three builds, or paths, available to the player are The Heartbreaker, The Star, and The Bohemian. Each of these determines whether Jala has increased attack rank, hit points, or Will Power (the latter is expended to use Taunts or Skills in combat).
Battles most commonly play out against the random suitors that Jala's patti (grandmother) has sent to "win her love." You can choose to start these battles as often or as little as you like by interacting with "Grift or Gift?" boxes. Grifts will be fights and gifts will earn you in-game currency without having to fight any suitors. The outcome of interacting with these "Grift or Gift?" boxes is randomized to maintain an element of surprise. It is still beneficial to have full health and/or Will Power before interacting with these boxes, however, since a battle may occur you'll want to be prepared.
Thirsty Suitor's battle system can be daunting at first, as it delivers a lot of information about its mechanics up front and expects you to retain it after the first fight, but there is a handy "Thirstpedia" in the options menu that is a helpful guide that will break down how the main combat mechanics work and the different ways to use them to Jala's advantage. While the mechanics do eventually click into place, getting there may require referencing this guide instead of relying solely on the game's brief tutorial.
Like many turn-based RPGs, combat is built on a system of weaknesses. In Thirsty Suitors, most weaknesses are determined by Mood, of which there are five: Thirsty, Raging, Shocking, Impressive, and Heartless. Different Taunts are used to figure out the Mood most effective to use on an enemy. If your chosen Taunt is effective on the enemy, it will inflict status effects on the opponent and earn you an extra turn that can be used to inflict Taunts on other enemies or land a powerful Skill on your now weakened target. It's a familiar but satisfying system of establishing openings, exploiting them, and then repeating to build momentum.
In your first dozen or so battles, it does feel like a trial and error process to figure out the weaknesses of enemies. In other RPGs such as Persona 3, exploiting a weakness of an enemy type allows the player to retain that information on the specific weakness. But in Thirsty Suitors, this is not preserved since weaknesses are not as consistent from battle to battle. To decipher weaknesses, the dialogue from the initial battle introductions can help. For example, an enemy might start their battle introduction by pushing Jala for marriage. This little hint can serve as a clue to zero in on using a Thirsty or a Heartless Taunt with success. Almost all of the time these hints of enemy weaknesses are present. They are subtle, but a good way to provide a little assistance, and over time it becomes much easier to interpret how the dialogue is guiding you in battle. It is satisfying each time to exploit a weakness and receive additional turns to continue taunting other enemies or unleash powerful skills. I thoroughly enjoyed that I could have that "aha!" moment and gain the upper hand or turn the tables as soon as I figured out an enemy's weakness.
When using these Taunts (or Skills), you will have to coordinate your button presses or directional inputs, inflicting the associated Mood for additional turns. In the same respect, timing button presses and directional inputs when your opponent is attacking allow you to mitigate damage from oncoming enemy attacks or Taunts. Thankfully, players can easily turn on options that automatically complete the onscreen prompts. It can get hectic when fighting enemies, so having these options readily available allows freedom to not worry about missing exact timings and helps with accessibility for those who need it. Altogether, Thirsty Suitor's combat is very gratifying, especially when you manage to use the correct Taunt on an enemy. It feels great to properly use the game's Mood system to your advantage and emerge victorious from a battle, especially when you manage to do it completely unscathed. Gameplay and narrative weight for dialogue choices come in the form of how much HP or WP is increased for the next bout. Certain plot points or conversations between characters can evolve and change depending on your choices as well.
Battles are zany, charming, and endearing, and the different taunts and skills are a big part of that too. I couldn't help but smile at how absurd the combat can become by playfully poking at South Asian tropes, but also subverting them using the game’s RPG mechanics. Calling your own mother as a summon in these psychological battles to deal massive damage with her slipper is objectively hilarious and also, why not? Everything is fair game in these surrealist and fantastical fights, so calling your chappal-wielding mother to deal huge damage, even more so if you do it with an appropriate enemy and unlock secret dialogue interactions. The battle mechanics don't change too much throughout the game, but the game’s evocation of South Asian tropes keeps things fresh so that each battle remains enjoyable, even if you're not intimately familiar with South Asian culture.
Each of Jala's exes has turmoil and trauma, all with their own coping mechanisms, and that trauma affects Jala in her own life separate from that relationship. For example, Diya is a lesbian and one of Jala's exes. She was disowned by her family at a young age, leaving her with nowhere to go. Her parents, who live in the same town do not even acknowledge her. After their confrontation, Jala is forced to reflect on her own life and relationship with her family. She confronts her father and asks if her father would have disowned Jala in a similar fashion, which leads to an unexpected revelation about Auntie Chandra, who sees being a queer elder as a responsibility for the younger generation of Timber Hills. There is a thoughtful intersection between characters that highlights the domino effect of interactions, relationships, and behaviors. There are deep bonds and long histories that come to light, and many don't even have Jala at the center of it all. It is impressive how the game explores themes of queer trauma, especially queer South Asian trauma, in excruciating detail, while not shying away from the reality that being queer is difficult for so many reasons.
Characters all have nuances and complexities boiling under the surface that speak to how they've been changed and I really admire that element of the writing. Andile trying to juggle his ancestors, roots, cultures, and traditions while being openly non-binary, but also subvert that they are not “small, petite” as the word “non-binary” tends to apply in white/western circles, for example. I can't help but want to learn more about the people in this town and hear the stories that make each of them unique, to the extent that it's disappointing when anyone isn't given enough time to fully explore, as is the case for Andile.
I was also surprised by Thirsty Suitors' main travel mechanic, skateboarding, which is both an easy and engaging way to get around. Outside of her home, Jala will automatically use her skateboard and she can jump on different guardrails, shred on benches, and hang off wires to do different tricks. By just holding down the trigger or changing the direction with the left analog stick when already on any of these objects, you will build up combo multipliers with different tricks or moves. You can freely hop around to different objects or run on the side of walls to stack up the combos. Hitting any of the denizens roaming around or any objects will drop your combo multipliers, so you will need to be aware of the surroundings and adapt to what is ahead. When you feel like finishing your extensive combo, there are certain objects such as the fountain in the middle of Downtown to total your points in a stylish showstopping manner. The game’s skating is intricate and well-crafted, with some of the challenges teaching you how to do more expert-level tricks. Between story objectives, I found myself getting sidetracked skating around Downtown or the Skatepark--not even by any specific available challenges, but rather by the hypnotic pleasure of trying new tricks and building up the combo multiplier or unlocking new characters to skate (you can skateboard as a dog that wears wings!). Online Leaderboards allow you to compete against your friends on challenges, giving you the extra push to do better or rank higher on the Leaderboards for bragging rights. Having a little message pop up that you have earned a new personal best or trumped one of your friends is a fulfilling feeling.
The game has a plethora of optional skateboarding activities and challenges that will grant you items or in-game currency, and there are several mandatory ones as well. However, there are accessibility options to autoskate, which alleviates the potential roadblock of the mandatory skateboarding challenges needed to progress the game's story.
The last core mechanic of Thirsty Suitors is cooking. Jala can cook many different South Asian dishes and, like the game's battle mechanics or the skating, you can easily turn on accessibility features to perfect the cooking segments, since they also require exact execution of on-screen prompts. Jala brings a pizzaz and oomph to cooking tasks that is enamoring to watch thanks to the excellent animation work on display. Simple tasks like washing her hands or shaking spices have her do flips, jumps, and stylish maneuvers around the kitchen, and it's a delight to watch.
Cooking dishes is also an integral mechanic of the game with cooking done in a step-by-step fashion overseen by one of Jala's parents, and I found myself creating the same meals again to choose different dialogue options. Outside of providing additional dialogue between Jala with her parents to discuss different topics such as marriage and life's obstacles, or inquire about things Jala never knew about, the dishes you cook can be used in battle. The better you execute the cooking steps, the more approval (and heat) you will receive from your parents. Approvals add up, granting you bonus dishes to use in battle with stronger effects. Oothoappam will restore HP over time, for example, but Oothoappam+1 will restore more HP over time and temporarily decrease the damage taken.
Even though I didn't use the accessibility options, having them available is most welcome. These accessibility features allow many different types of players to try a turn-based RPG such as this, and it is already such a rarity for games in this genre, with rapid button presses or circular motions, to offer these easily togglable features. It shows the care the developers placed not just on the game's representation or storytelling, but the player too.
Like the animations, the game's music is very complimentary to the presentation. The main battle theme against Patti's suitors will be a track you will hear a lot, but I never tired of hearing it. My favorite tracks are the individual ones orchestrated from the game's different boss battles, and as soon as you beat any boss you can use jukeboxes around Downtown to listen to specific tracks in your free time.
The cel-shaded art style and colorful environments really showcase the characters by uplifting their models. Each boss battle is filled with artistic flourishes. One boss battle will have backgrounds in pink with crystals and diamonds abound, like a royal kingdom. Another boss' environment is ghoulish, dark, and vampiric like a graveyard. The environments and aesthetics very effectively highlight the qualities and vibe of the ex you're fighting.
One of my favorite aspects of the game was the use of popular culture references. Hearing references to Neon Genesis Evangelion, The Shining, and other art but with a unique spin on really highlighting the game’s own allegories, analogs, and analogies. A non-playable character says they love Neon Genesis Evangelion because they “love giant mechs, but hate their dad,” which is an interesting way to explore the struggles of explaining to others who you are, and showing that art can be a perfect stepping stone to discovering that. These references also present Timber Hills as if it were a real place that is impacted by the influence of media and art we have in our world, making it all feel relatable as a result.
The way Thirsty Suitors meshes turn-based combat, cooking minigames, and a skateboarding simulator is a huge success. On paper, so many disjointed ideas don't sound like they will work, but Thirsty Suitors brings it all together in impressive fashion. And it does so while also elevating and celebrating South Asian characters and their stories in a modern-day setting.
On paper, Modern Warfare 3 sounds like it should be suffering from a chaotic identity crisis, as it's cobbled together with many parts of previous Call of Duty games. It's a direct sequel to 2022's Modern Warfare 2, but the standard map pool at launch exclusively consists of the full map set from 2009's original Modern Warfare 2. Additionally, the game's third game mode is a Treyarch-developed Zombies experience, which plays on Warzone's upcoming battle royale map with tons of features pulled from Black Ops Cold War.
New Call of Duty games typically launch with multiplayer maps inspired by the game's campaign locations, but other than the airport map "Terminal," most of the other multiplayer maps don't tie into the campaign settings in any way. Releasing solely with old maps doesn't really do the multiplayer any favors, as longtime players like myself don't have new areas to explore and it creates a very noticeable disconnect that reminds you what a patchwork job Modern Warfare 3 really is.
However, despite those disjointed moments the nostalgia for sale here, admittedly, sometimes works, too. Modern Warfare 3 aims to appease the longtime fans by bringing back classic Call of Duty features that weren't in last year's Modern Warfare 2. This includes a traditional minimap that shows red dots for unsuppressed gunfire, a more traditional perk system, and the ability to cancel your reload animation. There are even classic, yellow XP indicators that pop up when you're getting kills and scoring objective points. Newer players might find the XP pop-ups too arcadey and dated, but as someone who started playing and loving Call of Duty with the original Modern Warfare series, I find the return of the yellow pop-ups satisfying. There's nothing like playing an objective mode like Domination and watching all the XP indicators acknowledge that you're racking up points and kills. These pop-ups won't fit every year of Call of Duty, but it certainly works to have this nice throwback with the classic maps.
Modern Warfare 3 also restores some of the movement mechanics so they're on par with the twitchy feel of the more recent games that preceded 2022's slower MW2. While last year's game dialed back the movement, Modern Warfare 3 brings back the snappy aim and swift movement of its predecessors. The sprinting and sliding are so much faster and more fluid here, and the sweaty slide-canceling mechanic is back. Maps like Rust and Scrapyard already played fast back in 2009, and now they feel even faster and more chaotic in 2023 with quicker mantling, sliding, and all the bunny hopping of these updated movement mechanics.
Now the pace of Modern Warfare 3 is more in line with Call of Duty: Vanguard's chaotic and speedy movement than last year's more classic feel. I love the fast-paced action, but sometimes I struggle to keep up with the evolution of Call of Duty's movement mechanics, and I can't be the only longtime player who feels this way. Everyone moves around the map much faster and my enemies are slide-canceling everywhere, leaving me struggling to track them sometimes. However, I do feel a bit more capable this year, especially with Modern Warfare 3's new Tactical Pads perk that lets me slide further and makes the motion feel even more fluid. I'm not doing any fancy slide-canceling like the top-tier players, but it does help to bridge that gap and provide a really satisfying movement buff.
All the typical game modes are packaged with Modern Warfare 3, such as Team Deathmatch, Domination, Kill Confirmed, Hardpoint, Search and Destroy, and even the large-scale Ground War returns. Some of these popular modes, like Kill Confirmed and Hardpoint, didn't exist when the game's returning maps first appeared in 2009, but overall I think all the modes play well here, even if the maps weren't originally designed for them. One of the best additions to MW3's multiplayer is War, which is a mode originally introduced in Call of Duty: WWII. This is an attack and defend-style mode where one team plays offense and the other plays defense. If the attacking team breaks through the defense of the first objective, they'll move on to the second, and so on. These are usually longer matches than standard core modes and are exciting to play thanks to offering more objective play than just capturing and holding objective points in Domination or Hardpoint. There's an adrenaline rush that comes from the push and pull with each set of different objectives, such as trying to escort or block the progression of a tank. War matches get really intense near the end, with some attack or defend wins coming down to the wire, and you can rack up a satisfying amount of kills and XP during these games, which often push kill counts and earned experience much higher than in modes like Team Deathmatch or Kill Confirmed. Currently, War is only played on one large map pieced together using parts from other maps from Call of Duty's past, so I do hope we get a bit more variety. I would love to have more maps and objective types added to prevent the mode from getting stale.
Outside of the gameplay, one of the best changes is the more simplified Gunsmith. Modern Warfare 3 not only keeps it simple with just five attachment slots available, but it also removes Modern Warfare 2's tedious weapon-tuning feature. One of my biggest concerns about this year's game was that it might not be very casual-friendly. The movement system already caters to the very competitive players, and weapon tuning could've further driven a wedge between the casual player base and the more advanced players. Thankfully, everyone can just throw on some attachments and jump into a match.
While Gunsmith customization has gotten easier, the grind to unlock all your weapons and essentials has become more of a hassle with the introduction of Modern Warfare 3's Armory Unlocks. In the old days of Call of Duty, you'd have all the tools of the game at your fingertips by the time you hit the max player level, but Modern Warfare 3 slows down player progression by blocking many staple unlocks behind the new system. This includes popular items like the VTOL jet and Gunship killstreaks, helpful equipment like the trophy system and C4, and even several weapons and perks. This feels like the wrong approach to player progression changes. The armory system doesn't reward players with new cosmetics, and Instead feels like it is trying to find ways of trapping players in a grind to unlock their favorite loadout items. I'm just as likely to grind daily challenges for camos and weapon charms, so if they were presented as rewards it would have felt less punishing than having to work harder to unlock a normally staple feature like the trophy system. Additionally, this system looks to hinder the players who can't get on to grind the game for hours every night, as I'm nearly at the max player level and there are still many core perks and equipment I haven't been able to unlock yet.
Modern Warfare 3 also boasts a larger arsenal of weapons and attachments than ever before. Call of Duty's new "Carry Forward" program transfers your unlocked operators, weapons, camos, and other cosmetics. This sounds great for those who bought some pricey operator bundles or are otherwise invested in cosmetics they've paid for or earned. However, by also transferring unlocked weapons and attachments, it creates a very frustrating imbalance and unequal playing field at launch.
A new Call of Duty launch has always meant a clean slate, but Modern Warfare 3's release has players getting gunned down by fully-kitted MW2 weapons while trying to use and level the new guns. Of course, this is just an unfortunate part of Call of Duty's player progression system. These early launch day woes are the same struggle new players will have when joining the game much later in the year, but it definitely takes away one of the perks of being early to the game's grind. This is usually the only small window of time that allows Call of Duty players to be on an equal playing field, but that's not available this year thanks to MW2 guns.
Overall, the multiplayer is still the fun arcade-style experience you'd expect, which is a pretty big success for a Call of Duty game stitched together using pre-existing content that is desperate to sell longtime fans on nostalgia. Reliving the old maps and guns of one of my favorite Call of Duty games is quite the gamer high, and I'm once again suckered into a chaotic grind to unlock a bunch of really pretty camos, for better and for worse. Of course, with all of this recycled content, there's more pressure than normal on the quality of the post-launch content to help keep players satisfied long after all the sentimental feelings have worn off. There are moments where playing Highrise and Scrapyard with my trusted ACR (now called the MCW) assault rifle feels like old times, but in other instances I'm reminded that I'm running around Karachi as Nicki Minaj, and I'm almost too washed up to fully keep up with the game's cracked movement. I'm not earning a bunch of nukes on these OG maps anymore, but regardless, I'm still having a blast for now.
For the first time ever, zombies are also invading the Modern Warfare series, but this isn't the traditional round-based mode. This year weaves elements of Black Ops Cold War's large-scale Outbreak into a DMZ-style extraction mode, which delivers Treyarch's best attempt yet at large-scale objective-style gameplay.
Zombies takes place on Warzone's upcoming Urzikstan map, and the mode is designed for trios in a PvE environment, though you can choose to play solo or even team up with others in your match to form a "super squad" of up to six players.
Instead of the normal rounds which increase in difficulty, the Urzikstan map features three threat areas, which function as difficulties. You start your match in the outer portion of the map with the slow-moving, low-threat Zombies, but you can choose to venture inward to the medium- and high-threat zones. There is a noticeable difference when you migrate out of the low-threat portion of the map, as enemies become more challenging to take down, and upgraded weapons become a necessity. This design of various threat levels plays well into the theme of "high risk, high reward" extraction-style gameplay.
Capturing the feel of a Zombies game is a huge task in an open-world environment, but this zombified version of Urzikstan feels atmospheric and has all the core features you'd expect, so it feels like you're still playing Zombies mode. These core features include traditional-looking Perk-a-Cola machines, Wall Buys, and the iconic Pack-a-Punch machine for weapon upgrades. If you want to find a Mystery Box location, you can just look up in the sky to find that iconic beam of light. You also have plenty of zombies and hellhounds spawning all around you, and several buildings are full of toxic gas and spores.
This mode will feel very familiar if you played MW2's DMZ, as Zombies keeps a lot of the core features of last year's extraction mode. This includes the risk-and-reward element of DMZ, where you can gear up with exciting loot, such as iconic Wonder Weapons like the ray gun, but you have to ensure that you have a successful exfil from the match if you want to keep your haul.
Where Zombies improves upon DMZ is in its shift from PvP to PvE. Nothing soured the experience quite like working through a particularly difficult DMZ faction mission only to get gunned down by a six-person super squad. Now, six-player teams are a welcome sight because they can assist with taking down a difficult boss, or at the very least, they just leave you the hell alone.
For the narrative, the Operation Deadbolt story is played out in three story acts. This borrows another page from DMZ, where you must complete a series of increasingly difficult objectives in order to unlock a story mission. Completing these story missions is how you unlock cinematic cutscenes to further progress the narrative. The cinematics feel like the same quality you'd get for completing complex Easter egg quests on traditional maps. Even better, you don't have to commit to playing several consecutive hours to work through Easter egg steps with fear of failure just to attempt to unlock the cutscenes. Modern Warfare 3's Zombies story missions do take a while to unlock, but you can do as many or as few missions as you'd like in a day, and the rest will be ready to finish when you log back on.
There are enough missions and contracts to keep the gameplay enticing, providing a lot of replayability in Zombies. I really enjoyed Black Ops Cold War's large-scale Outbreak mode, but there always seemed to be too much open space that felt empty and underutilized. Modern Warfare 3's take on objective-style gameplay offers far more replayability and makes better use of an open-world environment, as the entire map is densely filled with frequently spawning enemies, contract and mission areas, and secrets to explore.
As a longtime Zombies fan, I can get the frustration of not having a more traditional round-based experience this year. It's especially easy to be wary of a non-traditional take on the mode after Call of Duty: Vanguard's lackluster Zombies left much to be desired. But MW3 offers a welcome mix of DMZ and Zombies. This year's Zombies is a solid mode for those who wanted more from Outbreak, and it's worth a try for DMZ extraction fans, especially those like me who hated the PvP element.
The release of Zombies offers a solid building block for an even better post-launch experience, especially if it follows a similar path to DMZ. Warzone's DMZ improved greatly with seasonal updates that expanded the replayability with new bartering recipes, a wallet to store funds, more story missions, and bosses. The launch of Zombies leaves me intrigued to see how seasonal updates will further progress the narrative and gameplay.
Modern Warfare 3's campaign was a disappointing mix of poor gameplay choices and a fumbled narrative, and this multiplayer sounds like it should be a disaster by being such a hodgepodge of Call of Duty's past, but I'm completely hooked on the Zombies mode and having a blast in multiplayer, too. This is the most disconnected Call of Duty has ever felt, but the online gameplay does enough to save the game. However, nostalgia is only going to get it so far, and I hope whatever post-launch content arrives is strong enough to keep me coming back after all the sentiment has faded.
Persona 5 Tactica not only exemplifies that identity but revels in it. With its chibi-style art, along with situations and dialogue that, at times, feel straight out of the requisite beach episode of an anime, the game offers more levity than Persona 5 Royal. Yet at its core, it remains focused on delivering powerful messages, tackling complex themes, and encouraging those who play it to not only be more sure of themselves but aspire to be more idealistic and kind as well. Tactica does all this spectacularly, using a powerful story and two new characters you can't help but fall in love with. Together, these narrative elements draw players into the next chapter in the Phantom Thieves saga and reignite the flames of rebellion. Though I went into the game not sure if its genre shift or even the game's existence would feel truly warranted--not sure if we needed yet another 30+ hours of Joker and friends--I walked away from the game thankful for it and the comfort it gave me.
Set shortly after the events of Persona 5 Royal, Persona 5 Tactica follows the Phantom Thieves as they embark on a new adventure through familiar yet uncharted territory. The journey begins at Le Blanc's, where Joker is serving up coffee and curry to his soon-to-be-graduated friends while the group discusses their plans for the future. However, conversations come to a halt after the Thieves notice time is now standing still and the Metaverse--the cognition-constructed realm our heroes thoroughly explored in the P5--has seemingly consumed them once again. As quickly as they are pulled back into the cognitive world, however, our heroes note that something is different about the Metaverse this time. Uncovering what that difference is (and how to get back home) then becomes the group's first priority and sets everything in motion, albeit a bit slowly.
That slow start--as well as the game's sloggy final hours--are Tactica's biggest flaws. At times, it feels like the game is drawn out merely for the sake of tacking on hours when an expedited beginning and sticking to the game's natural finale would have greatly benefited the experience. Thankfully, however, everything between these two points is excellent.
The Metaverse of Tactica takes shape as a series of kingdoms ruled by tyrannical leaders with a common connection. A lot of the game's major themes, as well as its two new characters, Erina and Toshiro, are introduced early in Act One and the entirety of the next 25 hours is perhaps the most heartfelt and compelling Persona story arc I've ever experienced, managing to use its overall narrative and the interpersonal dynamics of characters to forge an intense investment in what unexpected situations lie ahead from the player. In many ways, Tactica is a blend of Persona 5 and Persona 3, as it deftly weaves an intense and emotional personal story into a larger one about what it means to grow older and become complicit in the subjugation of both others and yourself. Though it might sound strange, I felt extremely fortunate to play Tactica when I did. It was comforting to be surrounded by its relentless idealism, given the state of the world in 2023.
On top of introducing two fantastic characters, Tactica also makes the series' existing cast of characters even more endearing. While I didn't feel especially close to Haru in Persona 5, for example, Tactica's visual novel style gave her (and every character, really) more of a chance to converse with others and showcase her personality. It also features side quests and side conversations that are often more lighthearted and allow certain sects of characters to interact with one another--or even give Joker the chance to envision what marrying each of his party members would look like, without any added homophobia. I was particularly fond of how the older cast of party members spoke to Erina and Toshiro, and how the traumatic experiences they went through in the previous games shaped their worldviews. The Phantom Thieves have been on quite a few adventures now and the impact of them is evident in how they are more empathetic and more assured of their life's mission.
The windows Tactica offers into its characters--as well as its rest system, which strengthens characters who sat out of combat--made me more eager to try out different party members and strategies on the grid-based battlefield. This was heavily rewarded, as combat in Tactica feels highly customizable and oftentimes more engaging than Persona's traditional turn-based combat. By cleverly positioning your party for Triple Attacks, landing critical hits to obtain a One More Time action, and placing teammates in the right places for opportunity attacks, you can make one turn pack all the oomph of several and completely change the tide of a battle. It very effectively mimics the flow and feeling of exploiting a weakness and delivering an all-out team rush attack in the recent Persona games. Additionally, each character features a fairly sizable skill tree (that you can respec at any time) that gives them unique abilities and contributions to battles, as well as a set of inherent skills. Haru, for example, has greatly reduced movement speed but packs a huge punch with the right weapon. Ann, on the other hand, can traverse the battlefield with speed but focuses more on magic than physical attacks.
Another fantastic change is that the bulk of the action no longer resides with Joker. Now, every character can dual-wield Personas. One of these will always be their signature persona, such as Skull's Captain Kidd or Mona's Zoro, but the other is entirely your decision. This change makes every character feel more viable and exciting to use. By giving my characters with high SP a persona with devastating heavy magic attacks and reserving those with skill-based abilities for more melee-based characters, my team felt highly optimized and adept. These systems and Tactica's battles, which range in challenge levels, encouraged me to make every fight mentally stimulating for myself. I was always eager to try out new party formations and persona combinations and tried my hardest to end each battle in a way that met all its optional victory conditions in addition to its mandated one.
I was continually shocked by Tactica's robustness across its story, systems, and battle mechanics. Even the options presented to you in the Velvet Room were expansive, with all the countless Personas featured in P5 returning to be summoned once more in Tactica, along with the ability to fuse them. There is no part of the game that feels resigned to being a mere spin-off. Had you no expectation of what a full-sized Persona game entails, you could easily mistake Tactica for being the main attraction. Ambition might be the game's only real hindrance, as its final hours feel very tacked on, especially considering there is a point that feels like an extremely natural resolution to the game. The other major bump against Tactica is its performance, which was sometimes an issue on my Nintendo Switch OLED, particularly the occasional framerate dips and noticeable load times.
Yet that's not to say the game's visuals are lacking. I was also surprised by just how much I loved the game's art style, which, while similar in its boldness and color palette, deviates significantly from the original game's sleek and mature anime aesthetic. Instead, Tactica adapts something a bit more chibi-like, complete with small, rounded characters, wide eyes, and cartoony expressions. Yet even during the game's more intense and tragic cutscenes, this art style works well. It adds a vibrancy, energy, and playfulness that I adore, and, alongside the combat shifts, contributes to giving Tactica its own identity separate from what's come before.
Ultimately, Persona 5's transition to tactics-based combat is a triumph. Every aspect of Tactica is so well conceived and moving that what's created is something truly exceptional, especially in regard to its story. I grew to adore the Phantom Thieves even more and fell in love with Toshiro, Erina, their story, and everything their characters stood for. Despite being a spin-off, Tactica has a beautiful message delivered with a clear voice. It's a fantastic addition to the Persona 5 universe--one that celebrates its spirit and resolve while also taking the conversations and ideals explored in the game to new heights.
Super Mario RPG is one of the wildest games in Nintendo's catalog. Loaded with eccentric characters like a Santa-esque big bad, random bouts of dark comedy--Toad cosplayers tickle as a form of torture and a four-eyed dog swallows you whole and comments on the taste--and moment-to-moment gameplay that is as raucous as it is eclectic, Super Mario RPG memorably capped off the SNES lifecycle. Fittingly, the new Switch version is one of the weirdest remasters I've ever played. Its surface-level appearance as a modern Mario game is merely a facade. Relentlessly faithful to the original, Super Mario RPG is a bold and largely successful experiment.
In fact, it's misleading to refer to Super Mario RPG as a remake, especially in a year where numerous remakes, such as Resident Evil 4 and Dead Space, have retooled beloved classics for modern sensibilities. Heck, I'd even say Super Mario RPG is closer to Metroid Prime Remastered. Yes, the graphics here were fully remade--this isn't a touch-up; it's a complete glow-up for contemporary eyes--but everything that gave the SNES game its identity is present. Outside of a few minor quality-of-life improvements, Super Mario RPG is mostly a remastered product of its time--and an utterly fascinating one, at that. With its heartfelt humor, standout personalities, satisfyingly straightforward combat, and an expeditious mindset devoid of the bloat that regularly plagues modern RPGs, Super Mario RPG is timeless.
Almost all truly great stories transcend time. When it comes to video games from the 16-bit era, narrative was often an afterthought. I was pleasantly surprised to see how well the writing in Mario's debut role-playing holds up. Endearing characterization deftly builds a world that draws you into the overarching good versus evil story.
You know the drill: Bowser kidnaps Peach and foolishly thinks he'll get away with it. While Mario attempts to save her, an enormous, lifelike sword plunges into Bowser's Keep and severs the mythical wish-granting Star Road. With Bowser's home now overrun by robot weapons crafted by Santa-lookalike blacksmith Smithy, it's up to Mario to find the Star Pieces scattered across the Mushroom Kingdom and beyond. For the Switch release, Nintendo dropped the Legend of the Seven Stars subtitle of the SNES version, but this remains an adventure about restoring the natural order of the world.
As these things go, Mario jumps at the opportunity to vanquish evil, but he's not alone in his quest. He's accompanied by four allies who gradually join the party during the first half of the story. And what a cast of heroes it is. Franchise mainstays Bowser and Peach ditch their villainous and helpless princess roles, respectively, to take on the sweeping threat to the Mushroom Kingdom. Some of the best moments see Bowser slip and show his soft side and Peach champ at the bit to get in on the action. But it's the two newcomers who play the most heartfelt roles. Initial companion Mallow is a fluffy little guy with a heart of gold, and his wholesome personality never failed to make me smile. I don't want to say too much about the second companion, Geno, but he is introduced in one of the most adorable sequences in the Mario series. It's one of numerous memorable moments enhanced by new cutscenes that are possible thanks to modern hardware.
The core cast gives Super Mario RPG its heart, while those you cross paths with color the world in all its zaniness. Many quirky characters dwell throughout the seven regions. I took great pleasure in playing "Frogfucius Suite #18" for Toadofsky, the most distinguished composer of his generation, by the waters of Tadpole Pond. Then I skipped over a row of friendly fish and received sage wisdom from Frogfucius, a philosopher who arguably has a top-three beard across all the lands. And they certainly enjoyed Mario's company, too, because even though he's wordless, Mario shows more personality here than in the vast majority of his games. Some of the most hilarious "conversations" see Mario mime tales from the road. He plays all the roles, physically transforming into other characters before your eyes. It's expressive in a very un-Mario type of way, and the animations are so well done that you can practically hear him.
A darkly funny batch of villains counterbalance the sweet and silly personalities. A whole dissertation could be written on Booster, a man with a truly wild beard and eyeballs that are ever so close to falling out. Outside of looking for Mrs. Right and riding his toy train around his castle, Booster's favorite form of entertainment is watching one of his lackeys juggle knives. This jester is aptly named Knife Guy--which is just perfect, no proper name needed. Then there's the awkward union of Valentina, a woman with a bird for hair, and a giant bird named Dodo. Mario's interaction with the couple is just one of the many layered story threads that include overt, surface-level humor and hilarious subtext.
It's incredible how many standout characters and threads are neatly crammed into an adventure that took me roughly 17 hours to complete. And it's especially noteworthy considering the energetic pace and wealth of activities that fill all of the gaps between story beats. Playing an RPG in 2023 with almost no preamble was so refreshing. You're tossed into battle about a minute from the jump, and it carries on this breakneck pace until the credits roll.
Just like in the original game, touching an enemy kicks off the battle sequence. All these years later, the relatively rudimentary central conceit of the turn-based combat is continuously engaging. Pressing A right before impact executes an Action Command, timing-based bonuses that inflict extra damage. Many enemy attacks can be fully blocked or strongly mitigated with correct timing, too. The remaster adds a visual prompt (an exclamation point) that demonstrates the correct timing for each attack and block animation. It's mainly a teaching tool rather than a crutch to lean on, as the prompt will disappear once you start achieving perfect timing with each unique move. Mario kicking a shell is different from swinging the hammer, and Bowser hurling his new buddy Mario doesn't have the same sequence as swinging a Spiked Chomp.
Blocking successfully is a trickier feat due to the number of varying enemies scattered across the roughly 30 areas. When complete, the new Monster List in the journal contains more than 200 entries. From Mario staples like Dry Bones, Piranha Plant, and Wiggler to the Smithy Gang's anthropomorphic weapons such as Pounder, Poundette, and Forkie--not to be confused with that trash from Toy Story who is actually a spork--Super Mario RPG packs an eclectic mix of foes. Since many enemies have unique attack animations, the Action Command prompt helps get you on the right track without compromising the integrity of battling. There are some attacks, mainly special moves and those that inflict status conditions, that cannot be blocked, though.
The plethora of timing-based sequences is a boon to what would otherwise be an effortless mechanic. And since many battles can be completed in under a minute, battle sequences resemble fun, action-packed puzzles. Executing well-timed attacks and blocks is satisfying despite being uncomplicated. It's the combination of little things--charming animations, HP counters popping on screen, impact sounds, and the catchy battle music in the backdrop--that creates a fulfilling and repeatable loop.
It's a testament to the strength of the predominant mechanic that the frivolousness and, at times, utter uselessness of the other battle components only has a marginally negative effect on the experience. To be blunt, Super Mario RPG is unbalanced. The scales tilt heavily in your favor and there's little incentive to switch things up or option to increase the challenge. Timing boosts are tiered, with good timing dealing more damage to your target, and great timing creating an area-of-effect shockwave that deals bonus damage to surrounding enemies. Chaining together well-timed Action Commands temporarily raises your stats, too. These are new to the remaster and have overarching effects on other battle mechanics.
Each character has a steadily growing list of special moves. For instance, Mario can jump on enemies' heads and hurl fireballs, Mallow can summon lightning strikes, and Geno shoots beams of energy. These have more nuanced animations with different Action Commands such as rapidly pressing A or twirling the analog stick. The issue is special attacks lose their, well, specialness due to ordinary moves often inflicting more damage. Plus, the area-of-effect bonus eliminates one of the key traits, multi-enemy damage, of some special moves. Considering most enemies are vulnerable to regular attacks, yet more of them are immune to specific elements, regular attacks become the definitively right choice.
Unfortunately, this logic extends to attack items that often deal less damage as well as the new Triple Moves. Chains of well-timed attacks fill the Action Gauge for powerful group attacks that vary based on your three-person party makeup. With Koopa Clown Car, for example, Mario, Bowser, and Mallow hit the skies in Bowser's aerial vehicle and hurl a mix of fire, ice, and electricity. It's capped off with a bomb exploding on your enemies. Considering how central timing is to battle, Triple Moves should be more impactful, but I never needed to think strategically about using them. The elaborate cinematics are certainly cool, but Triple Moves don't turn the tables like similar features in other turn-based RPGs, such as summons in Final Fantasy.
Ironically, the lone exception to the impracticality of magic contributes massively to the combat imbalance. Multiple party members learn healing moves, with Peach acting as the de facto white mage to revive fallen allies and replenish health. Peach's healing spells are wildly powerful, and they consume very few Flower Points (your magic gauge). With the correct timing--and the timing here is simple--Peach's Group Hug spell can fully heal all three fighters. Even if you mess up, you'll get a big chunk of HP back. Oddly, Peach has a Triple Move focused on healing, despite already having full healing powers. Though Peach doesn't join the party for several hours, Mallow has a low-cost healing move, too. And if you're low on Flower Points, it's nearly impossible to run out of healing items, since they are handed out as battle rewards like candy (you find them in chests and can buy them from shops, too).
If you're looking for a turn-based RPG where strategy and forethought are key to success, Super Mario RPG is decidedly not that kind of game. When I rolled credits after hundreds of battles, my party had been wiped exactly zero times. I wouldn't say I'm highly skilled at turn-based RPGs; Super Mario RPG simply sets you up to succeed. Your party quickly becomes the Monstars, and your opponents, regardless of how menacing they may look, are Tweety and Porky Pig. Even late-game bosses have a hard time making a dent. Occasionally, bosses will hurl an unblockable special move that instantly knocks out one party member, but along with being rare, there's typically a cooling-off period that provides ample time to heal. In many cases, it wouldn't even be possible for a group of enemies to knock out your whole party before you take them out, regardless of timing, so healing isn't even necessary.
For me, breezing through battles while chaining together perfectly timed attacks was a self-fulfilling endeavor. I didn't fight everything in sight for the experience points, coins, item rewards, or the challenge. Much like runs of Vampire Survivors where I know I'm going to wreck everything in sight, Super Mario RPG's combat loop is reliably fun. If there weren't such a large pool of enemies, I could certainly see it becoming repetitive. Immense variety keeps things fun throughout, and some bosses, to their credit, have unique traits that do require a smidgen of strategy to lower their shields or nullify a pesky attack.
Nonetheless, combat balance is one area where Super Mario RPG falters. Enemies have the same HP and traits as they did in the SNES game, which is a degree of faithfulness that doesn't gel with the new features. I wouldn't blame it on the Action Command prompt, as that is a resource that helps make everything click. But the updated graphics and animations make everything clearer and smoother, which naturally increases the likelihood of repeating perfect Action Commands. But it's a double-edged sword, as the area-of-effect bonuses, stat buffs, and Triple Moves earned from great timing significantly reduce the challenge. The original game was pretty easy, but the remaster is certainly more of a breeze. There is an optional easy mode that makes battles even friendlier, grants bonus experience points, and widens the Action Command window. It would've been nice to have the choice to tip the scales in the other direction to make combat choices more consequential. To this end, things do shift to the challenging side in the new post-game where you can revisit stronger versions of bosses like Booster and Punchinello.
Super Mario RPG is more than just a series of rapidly paced battles. All these years later, I'm still impressed by how many disparate ideas and activities are sandwiched into one masterful romp. One moment you're playing Whac-A-Mole with Goombas, and the next you're racing for cookies against Boshi, aka a Yoshi wearing sunglasses.
More than a dozen Mario Party-esque minigames are scattered throughout the seven regions. These minigames are often placed in refreshing segues between main objectives. Perfect examples of the easy to learn, hard to master mantra, they cover a wide-range of activities: careening down a waterfall, zipping around a chaotic railway, scaling a mountain using small Koopa Shells as platforms, the Kentucky Derby starring the thoroughbred known as Yoshi.
As it launched mere months before Super Mario 64, Super Mario RPG is, rather bizarrely, the first 3D Mario game with platforming. It's not the main focus here, but there's a fair amount of it. It's more rudimentary than in a mainline Mario game, though there are some key sections where Mario's world-famous jump is the focus.
Platforming, as well as movement in general, has a nostalgic charm to it. This isn't the shifty Mario who can stop on a dime; it's an era-accurate representation of his abilities. Mario has some heft to him that requires more deliberate jumps. It very much feels like the original game, especially since Super Mario RPG hails from a drastically different era. One nice quality-of-life addition is that the default control setting makes Mario run at all times instead of asking you to constantly hold down the Y button--if you must fully adhere to the past, you can use the classic control scheme.
Another carryover is the ability to revert the soundtrack back to the original. Super Mario RPG has an absolutely incredible soundtrack that captures the tone of the events unfolding on screen. Unsurprisingly, the modern version is more of an enhanced take on the original than a true departure. It adds layers to the classic tracks without compromising what was already pretty much perfect.
The dedication to authenticity is further exemplified by the level design and camera perspectives. Though it's probably the least graphically intensive modern Mario game on Switch, it's still a meaningful evolution. Lovely character designs and vibrant setpieces bring the memorable moments closer to modern standards. At the same time, Super Mario RPG looks just as it always has. There may be some slight differences here and there, but it's largely a complete replica. You view the world from an isometric perspective with a fixed camera angle. Diorama-esque rooms appear like they are floating in a void, and many area entrances and exits look like sawed-off dead ends. Load times are practically nonexistent, save for a brief moment when going through doors.
While this degree of replication isn't the norm for most enhanced rereleases, including other Nintendo classics on Switch like Link's Awakening, it works quite well here. It has a pop-up book quality that draws you into its condensed environments and fosters an intimate atmosphere with little distractions. Each locale has a unique aesthetic: The Mushroom Kingdom has its trademark lush green forestry; Kero Sewers is appropriately dark and dreary; Booster Pass has its chiseled slabs of mountainous terrain; the Sunken Ship is eerie and isolating; and Rose Town's idyllic charm is pulled to the surface.
Since it's faithfully designed to closely resemble the original, it makes sense that it replicates the feel, too, warts and all. As a result, conventionally basic platforming sequences, especially ones with moving platforms, tend to be more challenging than they appear because of the tricky depth perception. Judging how far into the scene isn't always obvious. The perspective combined with Mario's weightier feel makes for a methodical platforming experience. I personally found the platforming quirks to be charming, as it forced me to rethink my approach. The inherent oddities of the old-school feel may not gel as well with those who don't have nostalgia for Super Mario RPG and the SNES era in general, but it's somewhat astonishing this game exists in this form.
When you jump from the world map into your next destination, your primary objective is never far away. Areas are generally small with rigid borders that seemingly limit how much you can explore off the beaten path. But the world is layered with small puzzles and asides. There technically aren't any dungeons, but quests to retrieve Star Pieces have a tendency to resemble mini-dungeons thanks to a nice mix of combat, platforming sequences, and brain teasers that culminate in boss battles. There's a great mix of puzzle types that keeps things fresh, from clever miniature mazes and platforming-focused puzzles to riddles and logic puzzles. Each individual Star Piece quest is markedly different from the last, and while it's fairly lean on optional content, Super Mario RPG does have some very cool secrets and Easter eggs.
Super Mario RPG is one of the most interesting remasters I've ever had the pleasure of playing. Returning to 1996 and joining Mario and pals on this zany adventure that contributed greatly to my love of turn-based RPGs was a nostalgic joyride.
Two years ago, Fair Play Labs and Ludosity entered the platform fighting game ring with Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl. The game was decent enough, but it was clear that the core "Smash Bros. with Nickelodeon characters" idea had more to offer than what was delivered. Now, with Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2, the two studios are attempting to realize that potential.. However, while some welcome adjustments have been made, there are a few important flaws--and some mind-boggling subtractions--that once again keep the full potential of this idea out of reach.
The most notable improvement Nick Brawl 2 makes over other platform fighters is its control scheme, which carries over from the previous game and yet still feels genuinely innovative. Character movement, shields, and throws are all standard fare: You move your character with the stick, press a shoulder button to grab for a throw, and press a different shoulder button to bring up shields or dodge opponents' moves.
Attacking, on the other hand, uses a control scheme quite different from what you might expect from a platform fighter. Each character has three main attack buttons--light attack, charge attack, and special attack--and each button uses a different move if the joystick is held in a certain direction. Charge attacks in most other platform fighters have shared a button with light attacks, but Nick Brawl 2 separates them. This is a smart improvement, as it makes for easier combo execution in the heat of battle and allows for a few extra moves for each character. This game also made me appreciate jumping with a button instead of tilting the joystick up--by dedicating a button to jumping, using a upward charge attack becomes easier, as I don't accidentally jump instead of attacking. I never used the button option in Smash, but Nick Brawl 2 has made me come around to the idea.
I also love the new slime meter mechanic, which operates exactly like EX bars in Street Fighter or Mortal Kombat. You accrue three bars of slime while fighting and can use those to enhance attacks, cancel moves, and air dash. Filling all three bars allows you to unleash a one-time super move that hits for massive damage. The addition of a meter isn't new--Smash Bros. Ultimate did the same--but adding EX moves and meter-focused cancels is new for this format, and it works well. By implementing a meter system that gives each character more tools to work with, instead of just offering a meter with only one function, there's more room for experimentation with each character, and that means more fun in each match.
Speaking of the roster, it's one of the most confounding design choices in the entire game. Nick Brawl 2 contains 25 fighters--the same number as the previous game once all downloadable content had been released--with 14 fighters returning from Nick Brawl 1 and the remaining 11 making their franchise debut. Some of the new additions are deserved--Plankton commandeering a giant mech version of himself is hilarious--but others like Hey Arnold's Grandma Gertie don't fit as well, especially when, like in Gertie's case, the title character Arnold isn't here.
However, if you're following the math, you'll notice that this means 11 fighters from the previous game were left out. Some of them aren't huge losses--few people are going to cry over the loss of Oblina from Aahhh! Real Monsters or Sandy the Squirrel from SpongeBob--but others left me scratching my head. It's cool that TMNT's Donatello and Raphael join the fight this time, but why did that come at the expense of Michaelangelo and, more importantly, the team leader Leonardo? Lucy Loud from the Loud House returns, but Lincoln Loud is left by the wayside. There's no apparent logic behind these roster cuts, and players who used these characters are going to be left in the lurch.
What's worse, a handful of the cut characters appear in Nick Brawl 2 in some capacity, which rubs salt in the wound of their exclusion. Shredder has been limited to a non-playable boss character. Hugh Neutron now appears in the campaign mode offering free items to the player, with his fighting days seemingly over in favor of his son, Jimmy. The aforementioned Lincoln Loud can be seen in the background of The Loud House stage--in his idle animation from the last game, no less.
Thankfully, despite the weird makeup of the roster, every fighter has a lot to offer. Each of the 14 returning fighters have been considerably reworked, to the point where they feel like new fighters in their own right. April O'Neil and Korra feel particularly strong in this game thanks to some powerful charge attacks and versatile mobility options. The new characters have a lot of fun and unique movesets to explore as well; I'm particularly fond of the Angry Beavers and their Ice-Climbers-esque two-in-one approach. While I may have concerns with how the roster was concocted, I can't deny that those who made the cut have really fun designs.
The roster choices may be questionable, but the available modes in Nick Brawl 2 are a major improvement from its predecessor thanks to a deeper single-player experience. Some platform fighter standards like local and online versus battles, team battles, and training modes return, but the single-player offerings are far more robust. The arcade mode is the usual series of battles in succession, but you're offered opponent choices in some stages as opposed to simply following a linear path. The choices don't add much, admittedly, but I like that I can choose.
The all-new campaign mode, meanwhile, follows a structure similar to the arcade mode, but with a few additions. For each run, the campaign takes elements from throughout Smash Bros' single-player history and mixes them into a fine gumbo; there are brainwashed characters that become playable after they're defeated like in Ultimate's World Of Light, platforming sections like Brawl's The Subspace Emissary and Melee's Adventure mode, and checkpoints where characters like Mrs. Puff, the Cabbage Salesman, and the aforementioned Hugh Neutron offer items and power-ups.
What's more, as opposed to the previous game, which launched with no voices, every character in this game is voiced, with the majority being performed by their original voice actor. Some even have unique dialogue when controlling certain characters: Mrs. Puff gets nervous around SpongeBob, Hugh goes full dad mode when Jimmy's around, etc. The hub world between runs has a few opportunities for unique interactions as well, with Master Splinter giving the turtles and April specific advice, for example. The voices aren't always a boon, though; sometimes skipping dialogue doesn't stop playing it, which leads to Hugh Neutron talking about ducks and his son at the same time, among other weird moments.
Best of all, this campaign also includes an interesting twist: It's a roguelite. You choose a character when leaving the hub to start a hub and must stay alive as long as possible through multiple paths--with damage carrying over from bout to bout--before it eventually culminates in the final battle against the main boss, Vlad Plasmius. Completing stages can unlock new characters by defeating them, and you earn currencies that can be used to unlock additional power-up slots, purchase one-time buffs for that run, and more. Some NPCs hold specific buffs, and visiting them multiple times can level up a particular buff you might be fond of. I never pictured fighting games and roguelite elements fitting together, but Nick Brawl 2 makes it work as well as adding chocolate to milk.
This approach is not entirely without issue, though, as some parts of the campaign work better than others. The paths through each section of a run aren't always clear, so while planning a route, I sometimes got mixed up and ended up going a different way, which caused me to miss a specific character battle or item merchant as a result. The boss fights are fine; while some offer more challenge than others--the Flying Dutchman, in particular, is deviously tough--none of them move the needle in terms of new and exciting bosses. Most of the fights consist of a fighter spamming quick attacks, dodging a boss's attack, and then continuing to spam until the boss dies. They're not all that exciting, which is unfortunate.

The worst part of the campaign, by a considerable margin, is the platforming sections. While the platforming mechanics work in battles, they do not translate well into pure platforming sections. Sluggish, slow jumping is met with imprecise ledge grabs and strange hit boxes on obstacles to create a maddening experience during every platforming challenge. I do appreciate that falling into a pit here only results in taking some damage, but when I fall so many times that I enter the next battle with 800 damage and only one stock left, I'm less hesitant to be thankful. Eventually, I began specifically planning my routes so I would avoid platforming stages, rather than focusing on the routes I genuinely wanted to take.
Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2 is a marked improvement over the previous game, with a solid fighting system, fun new ways to play, and a varied roster of characters from throughout Nickelodeon's history. Each improvement comes with a catch, however, as funky platforming levels in campaign mode, weird roster choices, and more continue to hold the game back from its full potential.
Ubisoft Bordeaux's vision of ninth-century Baghdad stands out as the most compelling part of Mirage. While I can't speak to its authenticity, Baghdad's colorful, multi-layered architecture creates a playground of possibilities, offering numerous avenues for navigating the city, sneaking past guards, and reaching your objective. Freerunning is intuitive, though occasionally clumsy in its design, with Basim sometimes getting snagged on corners or leaping off rooftops in a way I didn't intend. These mishaps are thankfully not very common, allowing you to focus on strategizing how you want to get from one building to the next.
But most of all, Baghdad feels alive in its history, incorporating pinnacles of the city--like the House of Wisdom--into main story missions and highlighting every discovery and fresh face with new pages in an expansive codex that details the history, culture, and importance of the setting. In the earliest days of the franchise, Assassin's Creed helped me pass my History classes by making European history fun to learn about, and Mirage does the same here for Baghdad, highlighting the golden age of a city and culture not often touched on in world history and certainly not in modern media.
It's all presented with the usual odd and outdated assortment of quirks of past Assassin's Creed games, with characters slipping in and out of their native tongue mid-sentence and using expressions that haven't been coined yet, but uncovering the many intricacies of Baghdad has been fascinating for someone like me who doesn't have a firm grasp of Islamic culture and history. Baghdad is fun to explore both from a gameplay perspective--with an assortment of pulleys, platforms, balconies, and rooftops transforming the whole city into a parkour playground--and a historical one, bringing life and culture to Mirage in a way none of the actual main characters manage to do.
You'll be exploring that city as Basim Ibn Ishaq, a talented street thief who eventually joins the Hidden Ones, the precursors to the Assassin Brotherhood. Basim is assigned to eliminate the various members of the Order of Ancients, the precursors to the Templar Order, who control Baghdad from the shadows. Leaning into his origins as a thief, Basim excels at subterfuge and stealth. You can openly fight enemies in Mirage, and Basim is a fierce duelist who can parry and execute individual enemies with satisfying ease. However, once you're confronted by three or more guards, Basim's skillset is far better suited to running away and hiding. This encourages you to embrace the social-stealth elements in the game--hiding in plain sight within crowds, scouting areas from the rooftops, and utilizing an assortment of gadgets to mask your presence or distract enemies.
GameSpot Reviewcast
For an audio version of this review, check out the GameSpot Reviewcast, which is available on all podcast platforms
The gadgets at his disposal range from throwing knives and sleep darts to noisemakers and traps, and they can be customized with materials discovered in hidden chests or earned by completing optional contracts, allowing you to further define your ideal approach to stealth. The throwing knives, for example, can be strengthened to cut through thick armor, enabling you to stealthily take down even the strongest of enemies, or you can instead coat them with a corrosive material meaning they'll dissolve the bodies of weaker enemies and leave behind no trace for others to find. You unlock new tools, new options for your tools, and new abilities for Basim at a fairly regular rate, and Mirage allows you to easily tweak your build.
Like previous Assassin's Creed games, the enemy AI in Mirage is dumb as rocks and they'll fall for the same tricks over and over. This is particularly noticeable in Mirage, as this game places more of an emphasis on stealth and makes Basim much less of a powerhouse, but the enemies don't present any sort of opposition in most cases. Challenge is instead dictated by enemy placement, Basim's resources, and the design of buildings. Utilizing Basim's eagle companion and all-seeing supernatural Eagle Vision ability, you can scout an area to get the lay of the land, map enemy positions, and then plan how you're going to use your assortment of stocked tools and freerunning abilities to navigate the space without drawing attention. Breaking stealth is never punished with an immediate game over--keeping each mission from becoming overly frustrating--but failing certain conditions, like preventing multiple guards from seeing you or not stopping a lookout from sounding an alarm, can lead to a game over. With an area on high alert, Basim can be swarmed by enemies, which in turn can up the challenge considerably, and since you're not a Greek demi-god or Viking berserker like in the last two Assassin's Creed games, it's better not to be outnumbered. Because of this, there's still a gratifying tension to maintaining your stealth.
There are more than immediate consequences to being discovered as well. As citizens watch Basim in action, they'll report him to the city's guards for his transgressions. A more lethal playstyle allows Basim to handle threats quickly and effectively but at the cost of citizens reacting with much more vitriol toward him if they see him do the deed. While putting guards to sleep, blinding them with smoke, or taking the time to safely circumnavigate them will keep you off the city's radar, it can come at the cost of losing sight of your target or missing your chance to take advantage of a distraction, so it's a balancing act of risk versus reward.
As Basim's notoriety climbs, the city becomes more dangerous to him. Citizens will recognize him when he tries to blend into groups and call for the guards, archers will patrol the rooftops, and specialized bounty hunters will pursue him across the city. It pays to remain hidden and unnoticed when planning an assassination mission, lest you make getting around the city much more laborious and dangerous once the mission is complete. And if the heat gets to be too much for you, taking a break to rip down wanted posters and bribe city heralds can lower your notoriety.
I found notoriety to be too lenient of a system, however. The entire basis of its threat is that enemies more easily recognize Basim and pursue him with more aggression but, again, the enemy AI isn't very smart. Rarely do they react in a timely enough manner for a citizen's warnings to lead to a chase, and even when they do, Basim is far more nimble on the rooftops than his pursuers. The random nature of chases lacks the curated placement of guards in stealth encounters as well, completely negating any sort of challenge and making the increased notoriety more of a mild annoyance than anything else. Instead of feeling like the city is becoming more aware of you and testing you to utilize every trick you have in a desperate gamble to reduce your notoriety, it feels like the game is trying to force a mild frustration onto you that you have to take care of before you can go back to enjoying it.
Thankfully, these forced breaks from tackling your next assignment are the only ones you have to make--no one will be pulling you out of the simulation this time around. Like past games in the franchise, the entire experience of Mirage is a virtual-reality simulation being watched by someone in the present day. However, there is hardly any modern-day storyline in Mirage; something we haven't seen since 2012's Assassin's Creed: Liberation. Much like Liberation, there's a short intro at the start of Mirage that lets you know you're actually playing as someone in the present day who is using an advanced virtual-reality program to relive Basim's life. And like Liberation, it's never brought up again. You aren't woken up at key moments partway through the story to see what's happening in the present day. This is solely Basim's story.
Mirage is one of the most concise Assassin's Creed storylines we've had in a decade as a result. Every part of the storyline is written in service of Basim's journey without needing to twist it in some way to answer a question posed by a secondary present-day protagonist. Without another face distracting the narrative, we're allowed to focus on Basim and see how his desperate struggle to make the world a better place for the likes of the downtrodden becomes twisted and jaded over time. There's a genuine earnestness to him that slowly erodes as he's faced with the complexities of balancing a desire to serve the greater good and an ever-present need to serve himself.
The issue that Mirage runs into is that this characterization doesn't stand on its own. Basim doesn't have much of a narrative arc throughout Mirage; instead, his journey leans on the knowledge that he is destined for a tragic fall that will twist him into becoming one of the main antagonists to Eivor in Valhalla. Basim's storyline is filled with hints and misdirects, toying with you as it pulls you along, leaving you guessing as to what's finally going to be the catalyst for his eventual downfall only to then conclude when he finally reaches some semblance of development. There's a whole lot of context missing if you haven't played Valhalla, and Basim's story is only interesting if you have that context. Without it, you're left wondering what the journey was all for.
The game's story doesn't completely fall apart without knowing Basim's future, however. Basim's story is told within the confines of his hunt for the Order of Ancients, the stakes of which are laid plain in Mirage's opening act. The Order wants to control society. The Hidden Ones think that's bad and want to stop them to preserve people's personal freedoms. Basim is a Hidden One so his stance on the matter is pretty cut-and-dry. There's no personal investment helping you to buy into Basim's motivations for hunting the Order down but the game at least sets up that he may at least feel duty-bound to the task at hand. It's not enough to make things interesting but the loose framework works out and it at least brings you into Mirage's most enjoyable gameplay loop: the investigations.
Basim's hunt for the Order is organized into individual cases, tasking you with uncovering clues that eventually reveal the location of the lower-ranking members of the Order of Ancients. As you kill these targets, their deaths slowly reveal the true identity of the handful of big bads that they serve, unlocking the mission to go hunt them down.
The hunt for the Order of Ancients is at the center of Mirage's gameplay loop, injecting the freeform nature of how these hunts worked in Odyssey and Valhalla within the step-by-step framework of the original Assassin's Creed. Though the beginning and end of Mirage are entirely linear, the middle portion is completely open, allowing you to tackle three separate investigations in whatever order you want. The freedom to chase leads at your leisure encourages you to go after whatever interests you, with every lead reliably leading to the satisfaction of crossing another name off your list.
Many of the smaller cases crisscross with one another as well, unifying the open-ended nature of Mirage into a more concise narrative. At the end of the day, you're trying to unearth the face behind the mask at the top of this branch of the Order, but the very nature of your investigations clues you into how the entire group has insidiously wormed their way into the inner echelons of Baghdad. You are a predator and the Order is your prey, but as you fill out your evidence board with clues, you quickly discern how those roles could be reversed. The Order is everywhere and their influence touches almost every aspect of Baghdad. It's not hard to believe that one of your allies may secretly be one of them, and I remained glued to every conversation Basim had with his friends if only to discern hints of a future betrayal that may or may not come.
The benefit of such an intriguing twist is lessened by Mirage's weak cast, however. Beyond Basim's closest allies--his childhood friend and fellow street thief, Nehal, and his mentor and surrogate mother, Roshan--the rest of the characters are paper-thin and forgettable stand-ins who are really just there to deliver exposition. Most of the conversations Basim has with other characters left me wanting for more, or at least wishing for more time with Nehal or Roshan instead. Both women act as foils to one another and provide further insight into Basim. Whereas Nehal wants Basim to pursue his own personal agency and seek care for the nightmarish visions that have plagued him his entire life, Roshan admonishes Basim for seeking these answers and demands he instead pours his pain and trauma into being a better killer.
It's an interesting dichotomy that's not given the space to be explored in any sort of entertaining way. Both women, despite touching on potentially interesting themes of identity and coming to terms with one's past, are practically nonexistent within the story, only popping up briefly to pose an idea before leaving just as quickly. Worse, their characterization almost seems to leapfrog from scene to scene, with both shifting in how they feel about Basim with an unrealistic swiftness that doesn't feel authentic to how human emotions work. Nehal, in particular, gave me whiplash for how quickly she forgave Basim for an earlier transgression, only to then reappear hours later somehow still angry with him.
By the time the credits rolled, I was annoyed that Nehal and Roshan share so few back-to-back scenes to really hammer home how the two sides of Basim--one of which seeks the truth while the other blindly fulfills duty--are struggling for dominance of his consciousness. This internal strife is at the center of Basim's tragedy and could have brought those aspects of Basim's story from Valhalla into Mirage. Instead, the build-up of these opposing ideas falls flat at the climax, highlighting how so much of the dialogue in Mirage is tedious conversations with boring supporting characters.
Regardless, your efforts in unraveling the mysteries of the Order culminate in rewarding assassination missions. These resemble the Black Box missions seen in Assassin's Creed Unity and Syndicate, with Basim tasked with infiltrating an area, uncovering the identity and location of his target, learning of possible ways to assassinate them, and then executing a plan. These five assignments are the best part of the game, leaning into a mission structure that prioritizes creative reactivity. Each of these assignments is located in a different area, creating its own variety of challenges. An assassination in an auction tasks you with securing a specific item to gain an audience with your target, but it's up to you to decide if you're going to just buy the item outright or steal it from one of the other prospective buyers. Meanwhile, an assassination within an underground dungeon requires you to figure out how to even get down there in the first place and whether it's better to kill the guards inside or risk hiding among the prisoners.
Basim can unlock new pathways forward in these Black Box missions by bribing servants for information, stealing keys from guards, eavesdropping on conversations, or finding and donning disguises. You can also just murder everything that stands between you and the target if you so wish, though that's a difficult prospect given the number of guards devoted to these locations. During these Black Box missions, Mirage provides guidance on what you should do next--find a way downstairs, for instance, or draw your target out of hiding--but these are general guidelines with room for improvisation in how you go about completing them, and it's so fulfilling to see your well-laid plans come together and rewarded with crossing another name off your list.
Assassin's Creed Mirage is a true prequel to Valhalla, only able to tell a compelling narrative arc for Basim with the knowledge of what he becomes later in life. At the very least, you don't need an encyclopedic understanding of Assassin's Creed to appreciate Basim's growth from a young street thief to a duty-bound assassin to a truth-seeking detective as he looks into the interconnected investigations that unlock the enjoyable Black Box assassination missions. And though uninteresting characters mar the experience, an emphasis on social stealth and a history-rich city curate a fun (and educational!) gameplay loop.
In the opening of You Will Die Here Tonight (YWDHT), my Resident Evil-inspired super-cop solved a confusing book-based puzzle and ventured into a secret underground lab, where she was then met with a monologue from her ally-turned-enemy. To my surprise, this Albert Wesker-like big bad then shot my character dead--all in the first 15 minutes. It was like starting a Resident Evil game in the final scene and then getting a dark ending where the villains prevail. With a touch of meta commentary on the genre, this unconventional introduction was an intriguing start, but also the last part of the game I truly enjoyed, as the game thereafter ran through too-common horror tropes without cleverly subverting or enhancing them ever again.
In the aptly titled You Will Die Here Tonight, Resident Evil is the blueprint for a two- to four-hour-long isometric, survival-horror game with a touch of roguelite progression. That fun intro I detailed would've been a neat story track to stay on, as the big bad who seems to prevail quickly discovers there's another unseen hand, more powerful than her own, that is pulling the strings. But the game oddly drops this pretense in favor of a roguelite system whereby, when a character dies, you assume the role of another member of A.R.I.E.S. (the legally distinct and totally-not-S.T.A.R.S. division of police officers) keeping all story items with the opportunity to recover other scraps if you can find the body of your predecessor.
The dissonance between that story-heavy opening scene and what follows winds up feeling like two different games that somehow both made it into the final version. Each character plays the same but offers different text lines, with a few seeming quite serious and others offering bothersome jokes that wouldn't land at some middle school lunch tables. The mansion-like setting with secret labs, a torture dungeon, and some high-end offices and libraries is very much akin to a setting from Capcom's seminal series, and the roundabout way you navigate this space--solving convoluted puzzles and gathering various items to open doors and collect new weapons--is all meant to take you back to the late '90s, when games like this were most prevalent.
The problem, however, is the genre has improved for the better since then, and YWDHT feels like a reversion to something worse. Some of the puzzles and encounters feel downright unfair, like the game's name is a promise more than a threat. Once, I had to escape a charging boulder, but the character's sprinting speed and the nearest corner to duck into seemed to mean I was meant to die unavoidably, and I did, which allowed my next character to move past where the mass of rock originally sat. Other times, the puzzles could find the right balance between obtuse and satisfying, but never often enough.
Though the game uses an isometric angle most of the time, it switches into first-person for combat, which is a neat idea but winds up being quite boring in execution. Surrounded by multiple plain-looking zombies, headshots were always very easy to land. Conserving ammo and switching to my knife was a wise choice when facing few enemies, but the visuals made it hard to measure the distance between a zombie and me, leading to me frequently slashing at the air over and over until a zombie shambled into the pointy end.
The only time it was a major issue was when the game threw so many zombies at me at once, so quickly, that I again took it as a promise that the game wanted me to go through the story having lost at least a few characters. But to that end, I always felt indifferent from a narrative standpoint. The story doesn't characterize anyone much past that cool intro or the aforementioned corny jokes, so when I'd lose a character, its only practical effect was to make me worry about what happened when I lost them all.
Eventually, I purposely got them all killed to see what would happen, only to be met with an arcade-style "continue" screen, which picked up right where I left off and fully refreshed my roster of playable characters. This became an even more perplexing design conundrum for me to ponder. Why threaten the loss of characters, and furthermore, why seemingly script some deaths into the game if nothing happens once they're all gone? Again, this made YWDHT feel like a collection of disparate horror game ideas, some of which may have worked better in isolation, somewhat tweaked, or with other conflicting ideas excluded. But in totality as they are here, they just don't mesh.
While the puzzles sometimes clicked and the story had at least that one early bright spot, the audiovisual aspects of the game are only straining. The game strives for a retro aesthetic, but does this faithfully only in that it's grainy and drab. There's no strong use of shadows--just lit and unlit areas, the latter of which you can't enter anyway. Many locales within the vast castle-like setting are an eyesore. It's hard to imagine a game chasing the nostalgia of late-'90s horror games without including a memorable soundtrack, but such is the case here. Music is almost uninvolved, surprisingly, and things like monster growls and ambient audio don't do much at all to fill in a scene.
The game is brief and polished, so I think it's possible someone who loves the games You Will Die Here Tonight is affectionately cribbing could manage to enjoy this too, but probably only if they're really itching for something else to play. There's no shortage of games resurrecting this style, and many of them have been memorable. Others have been worse, but at least some have been interesting in their shortcomings. The overarching issue with You Will Die Here Tonight is that the death alluded to in its title can be attributed to boredom.
Perhaps I was naive to think that the legend of Kazuma Kiryu actually wrapped up with Yakuza 6: The Song of Life, and that his appearance in Yakuza: Like A Dragon was simply a nod to longtime fans such as myself. Having played through Like A Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name, I'm now convinced that leaving Kiryu to grow old in the shadows wouldn't have been the right move. Although Gaiden is a bite-sized story--noticeably shorter than previous entries--it proves that there's still so much more to Kiryu's legacy.
From the wild new Agent fighting style to the wealth of captivating side activities and tried-and-true Yakuza story drama, Gaiden is a tight package that's akin to a 'greatest hits' for the franchise. While it may feel like a retread of previous games at times, the formula is no worse for wear and continues to finds ways to surprise me with its straight-faced delivery of absurdist humor. Gaiden acts as a middle chapter that flows into the events of Yakuza: Like a Dragon, the 2020 RPG starring Kasuga Ichiban as the protagonist, and it leads directly into the upcoming Like A Dragon: Infinite Wealth, which has Ichiban and Kiryu teaming up. It's tough to talk about this game in a vacuum, but because it so heavily targets those who've been on the Yakuza journey all this time, it hit me hard in my feelings--especially as I barreled toward its heart-rending conclusion. In that respect, it is both a typical and exceptional entry in the Yakuzaverse.
With Kiryu as the leading man, the real-time brawler combat returns, but Gaiden doesn't simply rehash the old system. The new Agent fighting style adds enough to freshen up fights by giving Kiryu some James Bond-esque gadgets to complement the melee finesse of this fighting style. As you progress in the main story, you'll gradually unlock abilities like the drones that swarm and chip away at enemies, rocket boosters on his shoes that let Kiryu jet around combat encounters and plow through bad dudes, and explosive cigarettes that act as a grenade to blast away mobs. Kiryu also channels some real Spider-Man energy with the aptly named Spider ability, where he shoots out a wire from his watch to lasso enemies, launch them across the arena, or pull in weapons from afar. And it's oh-so-satisfying to weave it in mid-combo to start juggling enemies as if you're a god-tier Tekken player. He even uses it in web-slinging fashion to swing around in action-packed cutscenes--it's absolute Yakuza nonsense, and I love it.
Additionally, the parry mechanic to avoid unblockable attacks helps mitigate the frustration of having to frantically dodge formidable foes or get utterly demolished. If all else fails, the Extreme Heat mode in Agent style can tear down the strongest enemies swiftly thanks to beefed-up gadgets and unbreakable combos. It contrasts nicely with the traditional Yakuza stance, which plays closer to Kiryu's classic street fighting styles with heavier swings and gruesome Heat moves. So, from a combat perspective, Gaiden offers more tools that are genuinely fun to experiment with and work into your approach in tougher challenges--I rarely felt like I was pitted in a battle of attrition, which was often the case in the series' past. It's not quite as elegant as Lost Judgment, which remains RGG's best iteration of action combat, but Gaiden's mechanics had me looking forward to fighting mobs of 20-plus goons at the same time when the opportunity arose.
Sometimes it's hilarious how the story portrays Kiryu as an undercover agent named Joryu, working for the Daidoji Faction, a shadowy organization that influences Japan from behind the scenes. It is especially amusing as he deliberately does not keep a low profile and gets roped back into the business of the Tojo Clan and Omi Alliance, all while insisting he's not really Kiryu. It's a bit silly but speaks to a larger theme about him being conflicted about his life choices, more so than in previous stories. Gaiden treads through familiar territory where Kiryu tries to escape his old life by disappearing and living off the grid elsewhere in Japan--the premise of Yakuza 5 and the ending of Yakuza 6--but this game is a reminder that we've pretty much experienced every pivotal moment in Kiryu's life thus far, and so long as he's alive, he'll never fade away. He's always been the hardened tough guy who rarely lets anything phase him, even when on the brink of death or when fighting tooth and nail for those he loves. That's a big reason why Gaiden hits so hard, not because we revisit some of those memories along the way, but because those memories are wielded in such a way that they give Kiryu a level of emotional depth that we've never seen before.
If you played Yakuza: Like A Dragon, you know where the story heads since Gaiden is largely about what he was doing in the background, prior to his cameo. But seeing events from Kiryu's perspective adds texture to the bigger picture. This is also the missing piece that explains the reasons behind Kiryu's prominent role in Infinite Wealth, and rather than feeling like a filler chapter, Gaiden highlights the things that make the legendary Kazuma Kiryu human.
The main story is rather short, and it sometimes goes through the motions of a typical Yakuza story and glosses over aspects that could've used a bit more depth. As a result, Gaiden's brevity ends up being a double-edged sword that prevents it from dragging on longer than it needs to and cuts to the chase but leaves a few supporting characters and plot beats slightly underdeveloped. However, you get just enough time with the newcomers to understand them and their motivations, and when the main story hits its peaks, it's the good stuff only RGG can pull off. Gaiden takes about 10 hours to finish, not including any side content. Naturally, though, the side content is one of the core pillars of the series and it delivers, so I wouldn't recommend skipping it in this or any other entry in the franchise.
Gaiden mostly takes place in the familiar location of Sotenbori, and it works fine for what the game is going for. The one new location you get, The Castle, is a lavish Vegas-like hub area built inside of an abandoned naval ship. The neon-soaked strip features casinos for gambling minigames and a luxury clothing store where you can customize Kiryu's outfits, and it's enough of a diversion to stave off the staleness of otherwise walking the same streets again. The Castle is also key to Gaiden's story, as it's used as a stronghold for a powerful yakuza family and a place for some wild set-piece battles. While the main quest funnels you to and from The Castle for story purposes, integrating some of the side activities along the way, the primary draw is the Coliseum, an underground fight club made of dozens of brawling challenges.
It's one of the game's more elaborate pieces of content, featuring one-on-one tournaments, battles against waves of menacing men, and the party-based Hell Team Rumble. Here, you recruit NPCs who are usually goofy-ass dudes who have no business being in a cage match but, somehow, manage to put up a respectable fight. The Coliseum works well because the core combat system is enjoyable, but it also implements management sim elements similar to previous Yakuza minigames, such as the RTS-style Clan Creator from Yakuza 6 or Majima Construction from Kiwami 2. Your team members level up, grow stronger, and you can keep them in fighting shape by interacting with them at the poolside bar that they hang out at once they're recruited. The hardest battles are found in the platinum challenges and truly test your combat skills and party management. There's also a side story where you fight the four leaders of The Coliseum--not only is this a fun time, but the incentives are a nice cherry on top to help you see it all the way through.
Gaiden features a slew of other minigames from the series' past, including the Pocket Circuit, where Kiryu gets really into customizing RC cars to race them in local events, which is adorable. For karaoke, Sayonara Silent Night is a heartbreaking Christmas ballad, Like a Butterfly makes for a great duet, and yes, Baka Mitai is on the setlist. The Cabaret Club returns as a social sim minigame where you make dialogue choices with hostesses as real-life models who rizz you up through FMVs. It's admittedly pretty jarring since the transition to FMV scenes of cabaret hostesses staring into your soul feels out of place, but once I got past that initial bewilderment I found the conversations kind of endearing, even though they're rather basic. It's also worth mentioning the roster of retro games that are fully playable inside of Gaiden, like Sonic the Fighters and Fighting Vipers 2, which are available at arcades. And there's also the original versions of Master System games such as Fantasy Zone 2, Alex Kidd in Miracle World, and Alien Syndrome, too--it's a neat perk and further highlights the series' and Sega's tradition of preserving classic games within its modern ones.
This wouldn't be a proper Yakuza/Like A Dragon game without the series' signature substories, which once again deliver comedic and often poignant side quests that bring the city to life, while giving Kiryu some of his most memorable moments. In Gaiden, substories run through the new character Akame, who operates the Akame Network. She's crucial to the main story as someone who serves as Kiryu's informant and wields her street rep to keep him connected to the underworld, but she's also a charismatic and energetic Osakan who works behind the scenes to defend and uplift Sotenbori's homeless population. Through the Akame Network, you accept requests to help different people in the open world or investigate reports of strange things happening in the streets. And while the 20-plus substories are enjoyable to varying degrees, Gaiden has some notable bangers.
One substory revolves around a young man who's utterly convinced he needs to use an AI chatbot to create perfect responses on dating apps, but lacks the social skills to follow through. It gives a rather nuanced take on the subject and seeing it through the lens of "old man" Kiryu reminds you that he's more thoughtful than he often seems. You'll also encounter a livestreamer who goes to the absolute extreme for attention, which then turns into a spoof on horror story tropes. Others have you thwarting money-laundering schemes, facing off against a series of rival gangs, or chasing down a fully kitted samurai who roams the streets, reminiscent of Mr. Shakedown in Yakuza 0. But the best substory has to be the one where RGG universes collide for a sort of crossover episode where your favorite characters finally interact with each other.
The Akame Network is a cleaner way to package substories, but they also come with more substantial rewards like tons of cash and Akame points, both of which are necessary to upgrade Kiryu's combat abilities. It's a bit of an odd progression system, but it pushes you toward completing these requests, which I had no qualms about since the substories therein are almost as essential as the main story. And the more requests you finish, the better your social standing with Akame becomes. This results in opportunities to hang out with her at the bar and strike up genuinely interesting conversations about her life and motivations, while also showcasing Kiryu's ability to be a great friend.
Once you wrap up the main story, you get access to the Infinite Wealth demo that's included with Gaiden. And while that is a separate game, it's an exciting part of the overall package. It further emphasizes Gaiden's place as a bridge to the next game and, following Gaiden's conclusion, I was left more invested in Kiryu's journey than I've ever been. No other game franchise pours this much into a single character's life, so to have seen where he started and everything he's gone through over the course of eight-plus games, his perspective at this critical narrative juncture for the series feels warranted.
And so there I was, sitting in front of my TV, watching Gaiden's ending, crying like a damn baby over the hardships of a fictional man again--and I know those who've also been on this ride over the years will feel me on this. Gaiden may be a brief excursion that occasionally leaves the full potential of its supporting cast on the table and often relies on remixing ideas from the series' past, but with enough new features to make combat exciting and a buffet of high-quality side content, it's still some of the most fun I've had with an RGG game. More importantly, I was just happy to be in Kiryu's shoes again for another emotional story and to brace myself for what lies ahead for the beloved series.
Sonic as a franchise is notoriously inconsistent, offering up some amazing highs, some truly dire lows, and a fair few games that are forgettably mediocre. But then there's that one weird category several Sonics fall into: games that are obviously, undeniably flawed in some way, but still have that something that makes a Sonic game feel special. Maybe not everyone can feel what makes them great, but for others, those qualities will overshine all of the negatives. Sonic Superstars is one such game, one with glaring flaws that I happen to like a lot.
We all know how it goes by now: Sonic's arch-nemesis Dr. Eggman is up to no good, and he's got his eye on a new locale whose resources he can exploit for evil schemes. It's up to Sonic and his BFFs, Tails, Knuckles, and Amy, to stop the Doctor, recover the Chaos Emeralds, battle the returning but obscure fan-favorite villain Fang the Sniper, and meet a brand-new buddy to save the day. Accomplishing this task involves zipping through 11 themed side-scrolling zones while collecting rings, bonking Badniks, and dealing with each area's distinct gimmicks and threats. No melodramatic story scenes, RPG or sim elements, or awkward romances here: It's pure, classic Sonic platforming.
That doesn't mean it's entirely devoid of new ideas, however. All of the zones are brand-new: Familiar elements from previous games like gimmicks and enemies might return, but every stage is an original. Collecting a Chaos Emerald now grants a special Emerald Power players can put to use at almost any time, provided they have the energy for it. And--perhaps the biggest new twist of all is that Sonic Superstars now supports four-person couch co-op multiplayer. Sure, somebody could pick up the player 2 pad and flail around as Tails in Sonic 2 and 3, but that was extremely limited; what we have here in Superstars is a unique kind of controlled chaos (pun intended).
The new Zones in Sonic Superstars cover some familiar Sonic archetypes--a lush island with lots of loops, a bouncy carnival-type area, a factory-type location--along with new stage concepts, some of which appears to be based on unused concepts dating all the way back to the original Sonic the Hedgehog. At their best, these zones are filled with memorable, creative elements that make you eager to dive back in and replay them to explore further--the voxel-graphic, electricity-zipping, transformation-heavy Cyber Station feels destined to be an all-time favorite among longtime Sonic fans. At their worst, the level gimmicks make the zones a miserable slog--Press Factory Act 2 takes the underwater-timer element and applies it to the whole stage, leaving you having to constantly press switches throughout to reset a countdown to instant death.
To navigate the levels, you'll choose one of the four heroes to play as. This choice matters quite a bit as abilities vary wildly between the cast: Sonic has his Drop Dash from Sonic Mania, Tails has timed flight, Knuckles can glide and scale walls, and relative newcomer Amy brings in a double-jump with a much bigger hit radius and a flailing hammer run. While most levels can be played using any character, a small handful are specially designed for a certain character. They're all fun, but with the extra navigation and attack versatility the other characters offer, it's weird that Sonic feels outclassed in his own game.
But even though our blue buddy lacks the verticality of his companions, Emerald Powers are available to help bridge the gap a little. Each Emerald collected grants a permanent new power, ranging from the extremely situational (Aqua lets you navigate water easily, which requires being near/in water; Vision reveals hidden platforms and goodies if they're in the area) to the incredibly useful (Ivy creates a vine made of vertical platforms; Bullet sends you flying long distances; Avatar summons a screen-filling wave of clones to collect items and damage enemies). Combining character abilities with the more utilitarian Emerald powers gives a wide range of movement options, helping to alleviate that common Sonic frustration of seeing a collectible goodie or alternate route but not being able to vault over to it.
Getting those Emeralds, however, is a rather awkward experience. You enter a special stage through giant rings you find in the levels, which teleport you to a 3D environment where you need to catch the floating, moving Chaos Emerald by flinging yourself with a tether beam from various floating grapple-points. With no ground and few things in the environment besides a mess of orbs, rings, and oddly-shaped speed points, there's little good distance reference, making it difficult to ascertain how close you are to getting the Emerald--or, sometimes, what you can and can't tether to in your current position. A good chunk of the time when I got the Emerald, I just felt like I got lucky.
But the occasional annoyance of the Special Stages is nothing compared to some of Sonic Superstars' boss battles. It's not so much that the bosses are poorly designed--they have some very fun and challenging attack patterns and weaknesses. The problem is that, for many of them, the opportunity to deal damage only comes after you spend a very long time dodging and moving, and once you do damage them (or, heaven forbid, miss the window) there's a long, long wait before the next opportunity to hit them again. Sometimes there are ways to get around this--Amy's huge damage radius and the Avatar skill can cheat out hits--but even those can't get rid of a lengthy period of dodging fire blasts on a floating platform before the boss reappears.
And then there's a general lack of rewards. Like Sonic Origins' Anniversary mode, Sonic Superstars has done away with finite lives. Instead of collecting rings and looking for 1UP monitors, you'll be collecting medals tucked away in odd places and in bonus stages. Those medals can be exchanged for parts to customize your avatar in online multiplayer... and not much else, meaning that there's not much incentive to get them if you aren't going to play online. This can dampen the desire to explore levels as a result. Several of the stages are worth replaying because they're fun to frolic around in, but a fair few are not, and the charm of the spinning, slow-moving Sonic 1-inspired bonus stages starts to wear thin pretty early on.
As for the much-hyped co-op multiplayer, how much fun you'll have is likely dependent on how and with who you play. Instead of split-screen gameplay, all players share the same screen space, and those who lag behind eventually get zipped forward to rejoin the leaders, similar to how Tails would rejoin you in Sonic 2 and 3. What usually happens is someone in the group falls into a "leader" role that everyone else acts as backup for. If you're, for example, parents who grew up playing Sonic and want to share a classic Sonic experience with your young, less-skilled kids, this format works great. If you've got a roomful of Sonic veterans--the type who argue about the correct pronunciation of Hydrocity--and they all have different ideas about where to go and what to prioritize, it can be a mess.
Online multiplayer is also underwhelming, consisting of a small group of players fighting it out in very simplistic minigames, such as collecting items, dodging enemy attacks, and blasting each other with energy shots. They're overly basic at best and confusingly chaotic at worst, feeling and looking like gameplay you'd see in a suspicious mobile game ad on social media.
It sounds like I've rattled off a lot of problems, but there's plenty more I can praise, too. Beating the main story mode opens up a new mode where you play as Trip, the new spiky reptilian friend, in specially modified versions of the stages that let you use her wall-rolling abilities to their fullest. Finish that, and you get to play the big, ultimate final boss encounter with Super Sonic that's simultaneously way too long and really cool. The visual design is excellent, with many colorful environments and little graphical touches, like enemies donning ghost costumes for a haunted house area. Sonic Mania composer Tee Lopes returns to give the soundtrack a delightful kick, offering up some excellent tracks alongside the others like Sonic soundtrack veteran Jun Senoue. The second-to-last zone features a riff on an all-time Sega arcade classic that will go over most folks' heads but fill old fans with absolute delight.
Sonic Superstars is far from the best Sonic, and its flaws are both copious and obvious. Despite this, there's still that base Sonic high-speed platforming joy at its core, and those ultra-cool moments when it really sticks the landing with a funky new idea, unique surprise, or charming throwback to outshine the ways in which it trips over itself. After all, when you reach for the stars, sometimes you'll overextend--but it makes those moments when you do seize glittering glory all the sweeter.
WarioWare is a series built on gimmicks. The very idea of "microgames" on the Game Boy Advance was a silly, novel idea, and every iteration since then has tried to match that gonzo style. At this point, the real measure of a WarioWare game is how well the new schtick works to deliver its frenetic rapid-fire games. For WarioWare: Move It, Nintendo has repeated the pose-based games from the Wii's WarioWare: Smooth Moves. But while the games are as wacky as ever and frequently hilarious, many of the poses (or "Forms") themselves are too complex--which creates friction for the players and sometimes even for the Joy-Con controllers.
The unusual nature of the pose mechanic is apparent right away when the game asks you to acclimate yourself to holding the Joy-Con controller in a wonky sideways position: face buttons inside your palm or facing outward, controller turned to the side so that your thumb is positioned to hit the ZL or ZR button. If you imagine you're on a gameshow like Jeopardy where the contestants have buzzers, that's basically how this feels. You can't really reach the face buttons, but you don't need them. Instead, everything is controlled by motion, sometimes also involving the ZL and ZR button, and very rarely, the SL and SR buttons located on the rail.
The odd hand positioning appears to be in service of better motion sensing, allowing for a wider range of poses than we saw in Smooth Moves on the Wii. And to its credit, the gameplay does get a lot of mileage out of finding new ways to integrate these poses into different types of competitions. You might be asked to switch from holding your forearms perpendicular to your body (Choo-Choo) to putting your hands up at your cheeks (Lovestruck) to posing with one hand at your head and another at your side (Fashionista). What's most impressive about the array of poses is how often Move It makes them feel natural in the context of the microgames. The game won't know if you aren't playing along fully, but you'll naturally perform the motions better if you commit to the bit.
And much more than Smooth Moves, this particular iteration of a motion-based WarioWare feels experimental. The Hand Model Form, for example, has you pass a controller along to your non-dominant hand and then use its infrequently leveraged IR sensor to detect the movements of your dominant hand. The game is also counting on you to have kept track of your Joy-Con straps, in part because the attachment makes the SL/SR buttons more prominent, but mostly because some games will prompt you to drop your controller. One pose, Pounce, even has you place the controllers on a flat surface so they can be flipped, spun, or otherwise manipulated that way.
Unfortunately, the variety of poses and how they're approximated by the motion controls are also where WarioWare starts to meet its limitations. The idea of microgames has always been rapid-fire challenges, in which quickly figuring out what you're supposed to be doing is a key part of the game and the fun. But the poses add a wrinkle to that--the Joy-Cons aren't great at detecting your motions for certain poses, which means you might frequently fail even when performing the move as shown. The problem is further compounded when you don't quickly understand what's being asked of you. There were microgames that I repeated three or four times and I frustratingly didn't know if I was doing something wrong or if the controller wasn't registering my movements.
The Pounce pose, for instance, gave me an issue in a boss stage where I was supposed to be a pair of robotic hands flipping steaks. It wasn't detecting my flips fast enough, leading to burned steaks and having to start the whole stage over--and since it was a boss stage, it was relatively lengthy compared to the other microgames. The aforementioned Hand Model, while a neat idea in concept, is almost always stymied by the limitations of the IR sensor.
Outside of having to repeatedly tackle a boss stage, though, there's little penalty for failure in the Story mode. That's because of a new "Second Chance Stance" mechanic, which functionally eliminates the life counter. You still have four pips of health per stage, but if you fail out of a microgame series, you can just adopt a short pose, hold it for three seconds, and you're back where you left off with your health fully restored. It's a smart addition that makes failure less punishing, but it also feels like a concession to the imprecision of the motion controls. It's as if the game understands you'll probably fail at least once or twice by no fault of your own, so hey, just remove the penalty for failure too.
Since you need to learn a series of poses to know how to play the game, the Story mode walks you through them a few at a time. These bundles of stages are broken up by character in the usual WarioWare fashion, but this time you'll also see that a set of stages will teach you a couple of new poses too. So as you make your way through the randomized microgames, it detects the first time you encounter a new pose and gives you a short, humorous interstitial moment to explain the new Form. This can be a bit of a momentum killer for the usually brisk pace of a WarioWare game, but it's only the first time and works well enough to ease you in.
The game won't know if you aren't playing along fully, but you'll naturally perform the motions better if you commit to the bit.
In fact, the entire Story mode is an extended tutorial, walking you through the various poses even as it eliminates the risk of failing out thanks to the Second Chance Stance. It tells a breezy story about Wario winning a trip to a resort island and reluctantly bringing along the rest of his crew. It's more vibes than an actual plot, but it does package the wacky, irreverent humor of the microgames nicely. Wario's new voice, following the departure of longtime actor Charles Martinet, is mildly distracting as someone very familiar with the original. And the story is very short, maybe 2-3 hours for the critical path, so I finished it in two sittings. You can always replay sets of stages to unlock all of the microgames, of course.
The real longevity of the game is supposed to be in its array of multiplayer modes, which are plentiful. This is first and foremost a party game, as evidenced by "Party" being right there on the home menu, just as prominently displayed as the story mode. The Party mode has a combination of games from the Story mode, as well as its own specially designed competitive microgames. But putting this into the party rotation presents its own challenges.
For one thing, the Story mode does function as a tutorial, but that also means that visitors who haven't already played it may feel lost. I tried playing with two children and frequently had to pause to explain a Form or microgame they hadn't seen before. This problem could work itself out given enough time and experience, but if people aren't having fun because they feel confused by the microgames in the first place, they may not want to continue long enough to get their bearings. You can play the Story mode with two players--with a mixture of taking turns, simultaneous play, and bailing each other out if one of you fails a game--which could help alleviate the problem somewhat.
The bigger problem in my experience was when a Party game simply refused to work. In one mode modeled after a space-themed board game, we kept running into a particular microgame that asked for the Big Cheese pose (hands on your hips). One of the controller inputs simply refused to read the pose and nothing I did--not switching controllers nor recalibrating nor repositioning--seemed to help. Since the next microgame wouldn't begin until it detected all of the players in the Big Cheese pose, and there was no option to skip it and move on to another, we were just stuck. We had to quit that Party mode game and try another. We ultimately did get it to work on a subsequent try, but we still have no idea what went wrong the first time.
Aside from the detection issues, the board game mode was frustrating because it presented the illusion of a competitive game, but it didn't act like one. Points would get randomly redistributed, and player positions would be swapped regularly. I understood this just meant the board game wrapping was a thin pretense to play a bunch of microgames, and the winning didn't actually matter, but that's a difficult concept to explain to kids who don't understand why the game just gave all their hard-earned points to the other players.
There are a wide array of Party modes to choose from, though, and I preferred the others. One especially primed for parties is the Listen to the Doctor mode, which mixes the games with other wacky real-life commands. So you not only have to complete the microgames themselves, but you also have the other players rating how well you listened to the commands and played along. That sort of game, where you're rewarded for freeing your inhibitions, is well-tuned for a party. Another mode, based on the monster Medusa, has you race toward her while accomplishing the microgames to defeat her minions. This one worked well but seemed geared toward a competitive nature. And still another game, Copycat Mirror, has one player with a controller face away from the TV, and imitate the movements of another player who has no controller--but backwards, since it's a mirror. Like the doctor game, it's centered around playful silliness.
Those moments in WarioWare: Move It show how the game is capable of hitting its stride, and it's hard not to get a goofy grin when you're asked to cock your head to one side to gaze into a lover's eyes, or stamp a series of papers with your butt. But those moments are not as frictionless as they should be for a game that seems aimed at a relaxed, party atmosphere. The original WarioWare had an elegant simplicity to it, and the motion controls add a layer of abstraction that can be difficult to penetrate. If your friend circle is willing to put in the time to learn all the poses--and deal with some potential technical hiccups--then you may have a good time. But I suspect that, for most, WarioWare: Move It will be a short-lived Story mode experience before the game moves its way to the shelf.
Modern Warfare 3 reunites Price's team with several familiar faces from the rebooted series, including Kate Laswell, Farah Karim, and Alex Keller. General Shepherd and Commander Phillip Graves of Shadow Company also return, despite their treacherous actions against Soap, Ghost, and Los Vaqueros in Modern Warfare 2. It's an all-hands-on-deck situation with Makarov in the picture.
The campaign opens with Operation 627, a mission in which you stealthily break into a gulag. This linear level sees you rappelling down into the Gulag with night vision goggles on, clearing guards level by level as you descend. Visually, this level looks cool and the gameplay is one of the more enjoyable and traditional missions you'll play in Modern Warfare 3. The gameplay and cinematics are of the bombastic quality you'd expect from Call of Duty, and right away the threat of Makarov is apparent. He gets an exciting jailbreak moment and emerges from confinement ready to cause some chaos. However, after this hyped opening mission, Modern Warfare 3 immediately stumbles as you're forced to play two of the game's new Open Combat missions back-to-back.
Open Combat missions are meant to provide more player freedom by expanding the playable area, offering you more choice in how you complete your goal. These missions still give you a fixed objective, but you have tons of supply crates filled with various killstreaks, equipment, weapon types, and armor to choose from. I was optimistic about these new mission types, as I'm a player who lacks patience and likes to go in guns blazing, and I was excited about having that choice as opposed to always following the prescribed, more linear path of a standard Call of Duty campaign level. I thought I wouldn't miss Call of Duty's forced stealth objectives, but I have a greater respect for those moments now that they're missing in Modern Warfare 3. Unfortunately, the freedom these open missions present come at the cost of the atmosphere and cinematic tension that would be present during a more traditional mission.
The detrimental impact of these new mission types is first noticeable after the opening of the second mission, Precious Cargo. The cinematic introduction is an emotionally charged scene with Farah and a close companion that is followed by an Open Combat mission in which you run around and loot gear as Farah, a process which felt like a very casual match of DMZ or Spec Ops. Farah just witnessed the death of someone important to her, and in the framework of a classic, scripted Call of Duty mission, the impact of that scene could've been better expressed. Sure, someone was still harping in my ear to remind me of my objective, but any real emotion or urgency about the task at hand is still completely lost within the format of an Open Combat mission.
While it's nice to see an attempt to innovate within the well-established CoD campaign formula, Open Combat missions offer too much freedom, tanking all the momentum these military storylines typically would build with cinematics and traditional gameplay. Modern Warfare 2 did a much better job of balancing choice while holding on to the action of the story, with missions that let you have more mobility options but never let you lose sight of a mission's urgency. A good example of this is MW2's vehicle chase-style mission called Violence and Timing, which I praised for altering the usual linear feel of missions to offer variety and player choice. It let me have more options for mobility and felt less restricted than Call of Duty's previous chase sequences. I had the freedom choosing to hop and mantle from vehicle to vehicle throughout the chase, but it never let me slow down or forget what was at stake.
Whereas that MW2 mission still stands out as memorable a year later, Modern Warfare 3 lacks many of these unforgettable set pieces we've come to expect from the franchise. Call of Duty campaigns usually follow a familiar formula, containing missions like a high-speed vehicle chase, a stealthy sniper session, and a slow-mo breach-and-clear hostage rescue. None of that is present in Modern Warfare 3's campaign--a shift in gameplay that disrupts Call of Duty's repetitive nature but fails to then deliver a fresh and exciting moment-to-moment experience. You can choose to approach missions differently on their own, even choosing to take a stealthy approach, but the level design is curated toward engaging in open firefights meaning other playstyles aren't fulfilling. You can take a stealth approach in pretty much all of the Open Combat missions, for example, but none offer the feel of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare's iconic All Ghillied Up mission or even last year's sniper operation in Recon By Fire. There is a player-controlled AC-130 gunship sequence near the end of the campaign to shake up the gameplay a little bit, but this one classic moment isn't enough to save Modern Warfare 3's stale gameplay.
The strongest part of the campaign is the narrative, but it never gets to truly shine due to the Open Combat missions, which make it feel disjointed. The first half of the story does a solid job of showing how Makarov is a deadly extremist, and there is a new No Russian-style mission that is impactful and shocking in equal measure. This reboot puts you on an airplane and doesn't feel quite as over-the-line and nauseating as the controversial airport massacre, but it still gives you a very uncomfortable perspective, where you're forced to be front and center of a terrorist attack resulting in major casualties. This mission doesn't offer up any actual gameplay. You're mostly watching the horror unfold, yet, oddly, the game doesn't give you the option to skip this mission. You only get a content warning that you can accept or choose to go back to the menus. I hope an option is added for skipping this, as it seems unnecessary to force you to take part in an act of terrorism.
Modern Warfare 3 doesn't shy away from showing another massacre on an even larger scale, forcing you to fight through Makarov's thugs during an ongoing shooting at Verdansk's stadium. This mission is filled with chaos and panic as civilians flood out from the stands of the arena, running for their lives and crossing your path as you work to eliminate the terrorists. You fail the mission if you accidentally kill an innocent person, so accuracy and trigger discipline are important here. This mission serves to further reinforce what Makarov is capable of, but resorting to this kind of shock value should be in service of a greater story instead for what is essentially cheap, questionable, thrills. And when it all comes to a head, Modern Warfare 3's ending leaves much to be desired.
Task Force 141's race to stop Makarov ends with an unsatisfying story resolution. All of the early build-up to show the ruthless terror of Makarov fizzles as Open Combat missions derail any narrative momentum until you eventually hit an abrupt semi-cliffhanger. This campaign sets up a narrative to go beyond the original series, teasing a fourth Modern Warfare game will likely follow, but the path there is largely forgettable.
My favorite moments in the campaign tended to rely on nostalgia, taking advantage of the return to Warzone's Verdansk map. However, these campaign highlights--such as a stealthy incursion through a military base as Kate Laswell or a bomb defusing mission on a bridge as Ghost--lean too heavily on the novelty of allowing fans to get lost in reminiscing on the golden days of Call of Duty's battle royale, as the missions themselves are otherwise not particularly enjoyable.
When you tear away all the dreadful free-roam moments of the campaign, the traditional parts still showcase Modern Warfare 3's impressive graphics, over-the-top action, and the guns still have the snappy aim and punchy feel you'd expect in your gunfights. There's just not enough of these moments to make the game feel whole.
On top of the disappointing missions, MW3's campaign fails to serve as the usual introduction to the multiplayer mode. Many of the available weapons come from MW2, despite MW3's multiplayer supposedly including a number of new weapons. And with MW3's core multiplayer mode launching with nothing but remastered maps, you won't be revisiting locations from the campaign as you normally would. While it remains to be seen how the multiplayer component shakes out, it seems as though there will be a greater disconnect between the campaign and multiplayer than ever. It's an odd feeling to have the most direct narrative sequel we've ever gotten in Call of Duty, yet have the game still feel so otherwise disconnected from the other entries of the series in terms of execution.
The number of campaign missions--14--in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 exaggerates its scope, as it should take only 4-5 hours to complete, which is shorter than the norm. Unless you really take your time exploring the wide areas of the Open Combat missions, this story shouldn't take up a lot of your time. The intention of Open Combat to offer freedom ends up feeling like filler used to introduce Makarov's arrival, leaving little motivation to stick around more than needed--and doing so would only serve to further interrupt the narrative. Modern Warfare 3 runs smoothly on PlayStation 5 and has impressive-looking cutscenes, but these two elements further highlight how vapid the gameplay is.
Although its narrative setup is enjoyable, Modern Warfare 3 can't get out of its own way, with nearly half of the missions being the underwhelming Open Combat style. The bumpy pacing and abrupt ending make Makarov's big return a disappointment, dragging Modern Warfare 3 down as the weakest entry of an otherwise strong reboot series.
When it launched in 2020, Ghostrunner was quickly recognized for its slick blend of satisfying first-person parkour platforming and tough-as-nails, one-hit-kill combat. Perhaps most impressive was just how well it practiced restraint, never overstaying its welcome while also keeping the focus keenly on its engaging traversal and action. Ghostrunner II is a sequel that hasn't entirely lost the captivating nature of its core gameplay loop, but in expanding the world that you're playing in and trying to find new elements to introduce into the mix, it loses itself along the way at times before finding its feet once again.
Ghostrunner II takes place a year after the events of the first game, with cyborg assassin Jack now comfortable in his role as enforcer for the Climbers, one of many gangs trapped in the cyberpunk tower of Dharma. While the original Ghostrunner had a story, it wasn't a core focus, instead simply providing some context to keep you moving forward. In the sequel, the narrative is far more prevalent, which can make many of its opening moments confusing if you haven't brushed up on the events of the first game or the encapsulating lore of the world the game takes place in.
You'll have numerous radio conversations with a variety of characters, many of which are exposition-heavy explanations to get you up to speed as quickly as possible. It makes the opening hours feel overwhelming and disjointed, before the story eventually settles into a predictable revenge plot that leaves little room for nuanced characterization. There are some entertaining exchanges between Jack--whose blunt but self-aware responses are surprisingly hilarious for a single-purpose killing machine--and some of his handlers, but Ghostrunner 2 doesn't feature a fleshed-out cast of characters or captivating story beats that you'll likely remember by the time credits roll, and certainly not long afterwards.
Thankfully, you don't need a particularly compelling story reason to enjoy Ghostrunner's main draw. Just like before, you're able to elegantly zip around levels with speed and grace, chaining together wall runs, speedy slides, whiplash-inducing grapples, and nimble jumps. Ghostrunner 2's stages feature some extensive platforming portions, all of which use new and existing mechanics in continually novel ways. What might have been a simple wall run a few levels prior is turned into one that requires a shuriken lodged into a wall before you can grapple to it, with the added challenge of having to also disable a deadly electric field in your way at the same time. Ghostrunner 2 rewards thinking and reflexes in equal measure, but balances them well enough that you're often making it through platforming gauntlets without too many deaths. This retains the sense of accomplishment when you do reach the ground safely again without forcing it through frustration, making each bit of progress feel rewarding.
Throughout your time running around Dharma Tower and beyond, you'll encounter pockets of enemies in small arenas that impede your progress. These start off simple, with melee fodder that rush towards you and riflemen with semi-automatic weapons that quickly become trivial to deflect with your trusty katana. Even in the early hours, Ghostrunner 2's combat is challenging. You still die after taking a single hit, but more importantly, so do each of the enemies that you're up against. That applies to the mindless drones and all the way up to bipedal, laser-launching robots. This ever-present sense of danger transforms combat into a intense dance, one where your reactions to the changing skirmish are just as important as your initial approach. While combat encounters aren't designed to be tackled in a specific order, they are certainly structured to discourage certain paths, forcing you to figure out an efficient order or operations before executing it with deadly accuracy, leaving nothing but the blood of your enemies staining your blade.
This process of learning each new skirmish remains as exhilarating in Ghostrunner 2 as it was in the original game. Dashing in mid-air to avoid a projectile before decapitating the foe it originated from, only to then launch into a slide to close the gap to another nearby foe and deftly deflect a projectile back at him is just a small example of the tightly strung-together movements you'll not only regularly pull off, but be required to master to progress past Ghostrunner 2's challenging (albeit fair) combat. Enemies are intelligently placed to give you a perfectly natural path between them, making your execution feel choreographed as you combine your understanding of timing and target prioritization.
As you progress, you'll gain access to new abilities that expand your repertoire in both combat and platforming. Returning abilities, like the shuriken, give you a much-needed ranged option in fights, stunning enemies and creating a new grapple point that opens up more ways to flow between them. Another lets you create a copy of yourself while you are cloaked, which can sometimes work well with a third ability that affords you a short-range kinetic push, perfect for enemies on precarious ledges. The shuriken gets the most use out of the three, especially when it comes to its integration in regular platforming. Both stealth and the small force push are featured in some inventive puzzles to solve in the areas immediately after you acquire them, but beyond that, their usefulness is not explored further, which feels like a missed opportunity.
Each of these abilities, as well as your basic attacks and movement options, can be upgraded through a slightly convoluted system of acquiring passive upgrade chips and then assigning them into places on a circuit board. This board grows as you collect chips scattered throughout each level. You will come across some not too far off the beaten path, and many of them require careful examination of each area if you're wanting to unlock the entire board before reaching the end of the game. It works against the principle of continually moving forward, stunting the pacing somewhat to a degree that I often found myself sacrificing the upgrade potential for a better overall time. Coupled with the fact that only a handful of upgrades make meaningful differences to the way you can play, and, conversely, how you can survive better in a fight, it's likely that you'll find yourself settling in with a build early on and potentially forgetting to improve it.
It's in the ways that Ghostrunner 2 attempts to expand on these core fundamentals, and ultimately move away from them, that it starts creating friction with the components that work. It's most clearly evident around halfway through the campaign: You're equipped with a motorbike and quickly set off on a high-octane chase to escape Dharma Tower, leaving behind the setting that has served the series completely up until this point. The chase itself is entertaining enough, with elements of combat and platforming still present as you slash power conduits to open massive blast doors and leap off your bike to avoid the laser barrier, before deftly grappling back to it as it races ahead.
As soon as you blast your way out and into the wasteland outside the tower, however, Ghostrunner 2 loses its footing. The levels here show an ambition to expand gameplay into more open areas, jumping between traversal on your bike and small combat interludes when you arrive at yet another locked gate blocking your path. Ghostrunner 2's lengthiest level is one that presents you with three objectives to complete, letting you decide which order to tackle them in. This alone isn't novel, and the order doesn't seem to make any tangible difference on the remaining objectives, so all it enforces are extended periods of driving between the three in a needlessly convoluted open area devoid of any interesting challenges or skirmishes.
Ghostrunner 2 tries to use this change in environment to introduce new enemy types and provide even more backstory to the game's narrative, but considering that each new enemy is simply a reskin or an existing archetype and that most of the story is delivered through conversations as you drive around a barren, brown landscape, it's a uninteresting detour from Dharma Tower that takes up a good third of the total runtime. Its only saving grace is an incredible boss encounter that rounds out your time away from the tower. It's an impressive amplification of scale that doesn't just use more space for the sake of it, but instead presents a combat encounter that is delightful during each of its stages while making innovative use of the new mechanics Ghostrunner 2 has to offer. The same can be said for every boss fight throughout the campaign, barring a weak showing with the game's initial one in the very first stage. Unlike its limited space to move and rote enemy patterns, other bosses are complex fights that push you to use your skills and honed reflexes in new ways. They're extended bouts with forgiving checkpointing that make the common repetition of phases as you learn a foe more educational than wholly frustrating, representing the highest points in Ghostrunner 2's combat at each juncture.
A part of what makes your time spent away from the tower so frustrating is the stark contrast between the intrigue of Dharma's construction and the mundane nature of everything outside of it. Once you return, the flood of bright neon lighting that bathes avenues with delicate touches of the many struggles that have occupied them is immediately more interesting than a collection of sand, rocks, and abandoned buildings with nothing to say about their history. Dharma Tower invokes a lot of familiar cyberpunk imagery that has dominated games in recent times, but Ghostrunner 2 still stands out thanks to welcome variety between districts, be it the ominous halls of a religious cult that has technology hiding behind its sacred walls, or the exposed framework of a system collapsing under the weight of its purpose when scaling some of the outside walls. Moving through Dharma Tower is a delight that is accentuated by a pulsating soundtrack carried by riveting synth rhythms, many of which kept my foot tapping to the beat as I continued about my death-dealing duties.
It's difficult not to enjoy the rhythmic nature of Ghostrunner 2's finely-tuned blend of parkour and action, and it's also impossible to ignore some of the ways this sequel tries, but fails, to expand on its predecessor in terms of scope. It's disappointing that in most regards the increased ambition detracts from what makes Ghostrunner so captivating in the first place, taking time away from the expertly designed combat arenas and satisfying platforming gauntlets and using it instead to explore a barren, empty world with no novel ways to traverse it. Ghostrunner 2's narrative also fails to provide a compelling stopgap to ease the transition between these two distinct phases of the game, but when this sequel does course-correct back to what made it so popular to begin with, it provides an enthralling action experience. Ghostrunner 2 pulls back just in time before getting too close to the sun to remain an entertaining sophomore entry in the series that hopefully won't end here.
Video games often deal with the end of the world and thinking about how cool it might be. Like, sure, it sucks that most everyone has to die horribly for the end of the world to take place, but those of us who survive might get to shoot evil marauders or rotting mutants or giant bugs. Or maybe there are evil marauders, rotting mutants, and giant bugs who are trying to bring about the end of the world, and you can shoot them to prevent it. In any event, the idea of finding fun settings that let you dispense death without really worrying about the consequences tends to bring something of a positive spin to the apocalypse.
The Talos Principle 2 isn't just about the possibility of the end of the world, but the real, legitimate, logical fear of it--one based not on religious abstraction or a distant extrapolation, but an understanding of past mistakes. It doesn't use that possibility for a fun setting with monsters to blast or a villain to chase and instead leans into a more peaceful and serene conception of impending doom. How best to prevent bringing an end of our own making to the world, it asks, even if it's currently theoretical or decades in the future? When is it worth the risk? What values, what comforts, what aspects of ourselves are important to us, and which of them do we consider so intrinsic that to exist without them would be no existence at all?
It's puzzles all the way down, in fact. At the lowest level, these are a series of self-contained rooms in which you're trying to reach a goal that is out of reach, whether up on a ledge or blocked by a grate or forcefield. To get there, you need to do things like activate pressure plates or connect colored laser beams to corresponding switches by walking around in first person, picking up and thoughtfully placing tools, such as weighted cubes or prisms, on tripods.
It's a testament to some really incredible puzzle design that The Talos Principle 2 will put you through nearly 100 of these rooms and they never become boring and rarely are frustrating. Talos 2 continually adds, removes, and remixes elements, providing new tools like an antigravity gun for zipping objects through the air or a teleporter for zapping yourself through fences, and these changes always lead to fun new adventures in lateral thinking.
Puzzles consistently provide you with those excellent moments of epiphany, when you get an idea or try something new or suddenly see the solution, and you get to feel brilliant for five seconds. And then it's off to the next challenge, over and over again, and whether easier or tougher, every single one feels carefully and intelligently designed never to be annoying or feel cheap. The solution is always just out of view, waiting for you to adjust your perception of the challenge ever so slightly in order to discover it.
One level above the puzzle rooms themselves are the islands on which you find them and the vast mystery they represent. See, The Talos Principle 2 has already seen an end of the world. It's set in the far future, after humanity has destroyed itself through foreseeable but unheeded climate-change disasters. You're a member of the new humanity, a group of artificially intelligent robots created by the last vestiges of the biological human race.
You're the 1,000th robotic human, and your birth marks the fulfillment of the Goal, a plan to stop the expansion of this civilization and its city, New Jerusalem, so that it doesn't risk the destruction visited upon its progenitors. But then you discover a group of islands marked by incredible vistas and enormous structures, created by unknown hands through impossible means. You're called by the existence of these structures, and divining their purpose, their construction, and their creators becomes a huge, sweeping puzzle unto itself that you'll spend better than 30 hours trying to solve. There's an intention here, like these things were made for your people to discover, and that makes each puzzle solved a step toward understanding the looming and tantalizing question of why.

The structures on the island are a marvel to your small expedition. Some defy the laws of physics, while others suggest a power and technology vastly outpacing this young new humanity. They're all beautiful and awe-inspiring in their scale and grandeur, and though there are 13 total islands, there wasn't one that I didn't stop and take in for a few moments the first time I arrived.
The islands aren't populated by anything but animals, but things are made ever stranger as you discover and interact with mythological figures rendered seemingly as holograms: Prometheus, the Titan who stole fire from the gods and gifted it to humanity; Pandora, whose curiosity released all the evils into the world; and the Sphinx, who presents you with riddles as enigmatic as the islands and their structures. Prometheus pushes you to solve the puzzles and unlock the structures to which they're connected, while Pandora consistently warns you away, and the Sphinx sits between the two. Their goals and purposes, and even the nature of what they are, just add to the intrigue, and Talos 2 slowly lays out information and answers at just the right pace to keep you constantly delving deeper.
The most captivating puzzle, though, is the one you find in yourself and your fellow humans, the one that doesn't have a straight answer.
The Talos Principle 2 vastly expands on its predecessor with the inclusion of a huge number of characters, from the members of your expedition to the residents, scholars, workers, zealots, and politicians of New Jerusalem. Each is a well-rounded, ahem, fleshed-out individual, with their own values, morality, hopes, and fears. The best parts of Talos 2 are how much you get to hear from each of them, the dimensions they bring to the mystery with their perspectives, and how often they can pose arguments you might completely disagree with that are still totally compelling.

The existence of the structures is earthshaking for the humans' small civilization. With so few people, New Jerusalem struggles to meet energy needs and complete construction projects. Some residents feel that caution is in order, that balance must be maintained and nature respected, and the ruins of former human cities on the horizon are a testament to the prudence of that position. Others struggle with listlessness, worrying that civilization is stagnating and suffering a slow death rather than a fast one. Some have adopted a religious fervor about the Goal and the founders of New Jerusalem, while others have little reverence for their warnings or wisdom.
Exploring the islands with your small expedition brings all these views and more into the story. They're expanded on by social media posts that give you a look at what's going on back home, and by files and notes and discussions on differing viewpoints and philosophy you can uncover on island terminals. The impact of your conversation choices adds up, so much that the plot will shake out in significantly different ways depending on the views you share and who you share them with, down to a couple of different endings.
And it, in turn, can change you, the player. The Talos Principle 2 is a puzzle game that's really about asking yourself what you believe and what's important to you. Where Talos 1 wanted you to think about the things that make you a person and an individual, Talos 2 is about what it means to be a member of a civilization and a society. But all those deep questions are elevated beyond boring academics because of the characters--because the game is populated with so many people whose perspectives make sense, whose doubts are valid, whose intentions are just as good as yours, and who genuinely worry about what future they might create, both on purpose or by accident.
There are only a few technical issues that hold The Talos Principle 2 back, and they're mostly of the minor visual variety, like texture pop-in. One, however, severed my immersion significantly, when I returned to some of the islands late in the game to mop up a few puzzles and characters who should have departed were still present and sometimes even still available for conversations. One person had left the expedition before my return but was still there and even commented on new revelations as they came up. For a game that does so well making choices and characters integral to the experience, it was a flub that weakened Talos 2's closing moments.
Still, it all comes together in a peaceful, beautiful, often brilliant game that expands and expounds on everything that made the original Talos great. Your presence as a part of New Jerusalem will change it in ways large and small, but the question of whether that change will be good hangs over everything. You're constantly making choices in Talos 2, but they're never so heavy-handed as whether to save someone or kill them. They're smaller, more fascinating, and more contemplative conundrums. Is safety more important than freedom, and really, what's the difference? Does humanity hold dominion over the Earth, or stewardship, and how should that change how we act? What do we owe to one another, and what does society owe to us? What is life about--and what should it be about?
Lots of games are about the possible end of the world, but I can't remember playing one that thought about that end, or made me think about it, as much as The Talos Principle 2. As we live through what can often feel like a slow-motion apocalypse, it's been fascinating, heartbreaking, and hopeful to consider things like our essential humanity, the things that make us who we are, and the choices we have made and can still make.
And also, the puzzles are really good.
RoboCop: Rogue City is a love letter to the 36-year-old sci-fi franchise. Teyon, the studio behind Terminator: Resistance and Rambo: The Video Game, clearly has a soft spot for '80s action movies, and this reverence is woven into the very fabric of Rogue City's design. From the environments to the soundtrack to the satirical style, it captures the look, sound, and vibe of the first two RoboCop movies with exceptional aplomb, while also making you feel like you're fully embodying the titular supercop. Pistons whir with each heavy footstep of your titanium frame as you shrug off damage and methodically dispatch criminal scum with the lethal precision of a machine. There's something admirable about this adherence to authenticity, yet being a near-unstoppable force doesn't always make for the most compelling video game. Rogue City often appears as though it's stuck at a crossroads between being faithful to the source material and presenting an enjoyable first-person shooter, and it only sometimes strikes a satisfying balance.
Rogue City's story feels genuine by etching a brand-new tale into the series' familiar narrative framework, but this is another area where Teyon sometimes sticks too closely to the original two movies' vision. Set between the events of RoboCop 2 and RoboCop 3, Rogue City sees you play as Old Detroit cop Alex Murphy--with Peter Weller reprising the famous role--who's been rebuilt as the cyborg RoboCop after being fatally wounded in the line of duty. The game opens with a satirical news segment that would feel right at home in Paul Verhoeven's 1987 film, establishing the crime-riddled state of Old Detroit. Nuke, the highly addictive designer drug introduced in RoboCop 2, is still proliferating on the streets, and now there's a new crime boss in town who has the rest of the city's gangs lining up to work for him. Putting a stop to this new wave of crime is your prime directive, but the story also explores a number of sub-plots with mixed results.
At the conclusion of the game's first mission, for instance, RoboCop malfunctions in a dangerous hostage situation and begins having flashbacks to the life he used to have as a loving husband and father. Mega-corporation Omni Consumer Products (OCP) is eager to fix its faulty hardware, even going as far as to hire a therapist for RoboCop to talk to. The original movies explored themes of control and free will and touched on the dichotomy of RoboCop's very existence, but these moments were often clumsily handled and never reached a particularly satisfying conclusion. Rogue City allows you to delve deeper into Murphy's psyche by choosing various dialogue options during your mandated therapy sessions. You can toe the line and say you're just a machine or that it doesn't matter either way, or you can opt to dig further and explore Murphy's relationship with his humanity and personal identity. There are some interesting moments that arise from these conversations and the way your answers influence how others perceive you, but it also doesn't say anything we haven't heard before, either within RoboCop's own fiction or in other media. As a result, Rogue City feels like it's simply retreading old ground and falling into the same pitfalls the movies once did.
Other sub-plots focus on the corporate corruption within OCP that threatens RoboCop and his fellow police officers, and the tenacious investigative journalist working the case. There's also a thread involving an earnest new cop who needs to be shown the ropes, and a mayoral election that has both candidates seeking RoboCop's endorsement. This is all fairly by-the-numbers action movie stuff with some predictable twists and turns along the way. It also covers a lot of the same ground as the first two movies, from displacing the poor for gentrified districts to Detroit PD threatening to strike over OCP's mishandling of the department. There are enough intriguing moments to help carry the story to its conclusion, but it runs into a few pacing issues during the latter half, particularly when some of these disparate threads collide. There are multiple instances where it appears to be reaching a conclusion only to continue on for another few hours, which dulls any sense of momentum it might've achieved.
Peter Weller is excellent as RoboCop, however, effortlessly slipping back into the role as though he never left. He perfectly delivers all of the deadpan lines and catchphrases you could ask for, adding equal amounts of levity and standout moments where you can't help but jump up shouting, "That's RoboCop!" Familiar supporting characters like Anne Lewis and Sergeant Reed also appear--albeit voiced by different actors--contributing to the game's fantastic sense of place and authenticity. It borrows the visual language of RoboCop down to a tee, complete with one-to-one set recreations that help nail the look and feel of an era of movies in a way that hasn't been done since Alien: Isolation's opening.
This carries over into the RoboCop power fantasy that is Rogue City's meticulous combat. Even at full sprint, Murphy's movement is best described as plodding--and he can't jump, roll, or slide either--so the game's action never comes close to replicating a modern FPS. Instead, you're essentially a walking tank, able to withstand heavy damage while methodically dispatching waves of enemies using RoboCop's signature Auto-9 machine pistol. Shooting the ruffians of Old Detroit in the head never gets old, as craniums pop like watermelons, dousing the environment in blood and gore with a satisfying splat. You can launch bulky CRT monitors at enemies for a change of pace, or simply punch straight through them using RoboCop's enhanced strength. There's also a skill tree that gradually unlocks more abilities for you to utilize, including a flashbang-esque stun attack and slow-motion vision, but even with these peripheral additions, there isn't a ton of depth to the combat.
This might sound counterintuitive, but Rogue City is at its best when you're able to clear out a room with relative ease, soaking up bullets as you blow heads and limbs off in over-the-top fashion. When you think of RoboCop in the movies, you picture a relentless and unstoppable force, and Rogue City excels when it's able to replicate just that. This shallow approach might not be enough to sustain a full game without eventually giving way to repetition--and it would benefit from being a shorter game--but most attempts to inject a sense of challenge into the formula fall flat. Once enemy numbers begin to grow in tandem with their health bars, your only recourse is to stand behind walls in order to avoid sustaining too much damage. Instead of gaudy action that's over in a flash, firefights turn into dull and prolonged shootouts as you're forced to grind down enemies from behind cover. These moments don't play to RoboCop's strengths because you no longer feel like RoboCop. Its best moments occur when it feeds into the inherent power fantasy of being a superpowered force. Even if it might not make for the most compelling shooter, fully embodying the man-turned-machine and his near-invulnerability is consistently rewarding and the game's greatest selling point. Rogue City falters when it veers away from this.
When you're not stopping drug dealers and murderers with lethal force, Rogue City offers a change of pace by sending you out on patrol. There are a few moments throughout the game where you'll revisit the same run-down neighborhood and can break off from the main story to assist local citizens and deal with petty crimes. There's something funny about a state-of-the-art cyborg issuing parking tickets, and you'll also deal with other minor offenses like noise complaints, graffiti, and littering. You're given some leeway in how you handle these lawbreakers, either putting faith in the public trust by letting them off with a warning or exacting the letter of the law by issuing a ticket--with these decisions and your other choices impacting the game's ending. It's also here where you'll engage with some of Rogue City's light RPG mechanics, especially when it comes to solving some of the more elaborate side quests. One of these sees you busting a drug operation by tracking down a dealer who's been stealing from all of the other dealers, while another tasks you with solving a murder that's tangentially related to a commercial for toxic sunscreen. These quests tend to be entertaining and also give you a chance to flex RoboCop's police muscles outside of combat. You can glean information by talking to people or by exploring the environment and using your scanning capabilities to detect evidence. None of this is particularly deep, but it makes for a more well-rounded RoboCop game.
This veritable slice of downtown Detroit is also an excellent example of a miniature open world. In many ways it feels comparable to the most recent Deus Ex games, giving you a play area that's just big enough and stuffed with just enough things to make exploration rewarding. It fully embraces RoboCop's sci-fi '80s aesthetic, too, with payphones, a VHS store, a noisy arcade, and an electronics store crammed with CRT televisions. The only downside is that there isn't another hub area to explore in the game's latter half. Returning to the same streets for the third time is a little boring, even if the time of day has changed. I played the PS5 version of the game and also ran into performance issues in these open areas and when the action gets busy with multiple characters and special effects on screen at the same time. The quality mode is locked at 30fps and does a decent job of maintaining it, but the performance mode regularly dips below 60fps despite the major hit to image quality. The action is slow enough that playing in quality mode is preferable, but this is a matter of taste and it's still disappointing that it struggles so much in performance mode.
It's a well-worn cliche at this point, but if you're a fan of RoboCop, then you'll find a lot to love in Rogue City. It's chock full of Easter eggs and manages to capture the look and feel of the first two RoboCop movies with excellent attention to detail, even getting Peter Weller to reprise his role as the eponymous hero. More than anything, it does a tremendous job of making you feel like RoboCop in its best moments. Combat is shallow because of this devotion to authenticity, but it excels when you're able to fully personify the relentless killing machine. It missteps when moving away from this, resulting in some dull firefights, yet these failings are mitigated somewhat by its embrace of a well-rounded RoboCop, regularly breaking away from the action for more nuanced moments of crime fighting. Rogue City might not be for everyone, but at least it's not RoboCop 3.
The Star Ocean franchise has been an underappreciated one within the Japanese RPG genre. Despite being around for more than 25 years, it's never had the breakout success that elevated it to new heights, as something like Persona or Tales have had in more recent years. Many longtime fans consider 1999's Star Ocean: The Second Story to be the best entry, and now Square Enix has remade it for modern consoles. Star Ocean: The Second Story R is a remake that manages to not only have the retro feel of its older PS1 and PSP incarnations, but also make it feel fresh with new battle mechanics, as well as audio and visuals updates. It may not be the big break that’ll finally make the Star Ocean franchise explode in popularity, but it’s a fine Japanese RPG on its own terms.
The Second Story's plot follows an energetic young man named Claude C. Kenny and a caring young girl named Rena Lanford. After disobeying his father's orders and touching a malfunctioning piece of teleportation equipment, Claude accidentally lands on a backwater planet called Expel, runs into Rena, and has to protect her from a monster. These two characters are the core focus of the story, and their respective motivations and situations make for great plot drivers. In an effort to find a way to return home, Claude agrees with the local village to investigate the Sorcery Globe, a mysterious meteor-like object that crashed into Expel, causing the surrounding area to be infested with monsters. As he’s from a technologically advanced society, he thinks that the object could provide clues on how to get off of Expel. Rena, meanwhile, is an orphan and hopes to uncover more of her own past, as she is the only person on Expel to be blessed with natural healing powers.
While its story isn't as complex as more modern Japanese RPGs such as Xenoblade Chronicles 3, its simplicity allows character relationships to shine. The juxtaposition between Claude's technological upbringing, where flying in spaceships was an everyday occurance, and Rena's more medieval background makes for an interesting dynamic between the two and the world around them--the villagers mistake him as some sort of prophetic figure because he takes the local monster down with a laser gun, which the villagers think is some sort of “sword of light” straight out of a fantasy novel.
Star Ocean: The Second Story has a total of 12 playable characters, including Claude and Rena. Of these, eight can be recruited in a single playthrough. Due to the variable nature of your final party, that means that many of the characters don't have direct involvement with the plot. However, this is made up for with Private Actions, which are side conversations Claude and Rena can have with these characters throughout the game's many cities. These add a lot of charm and are abundant since they change depending on your party composition. For example, having the young engineer, Precis F. Neumann, and the item inventor, Welch Vineyard, recruited in the same party unlocks a conversation where Welch learns a new attack skill to use in battle. The sheer number of possible party combinations adds to the immense replayability of the game. It also gives some value to characters that otherwise feel like bit parts in the main narrative.
The battle system retains its real-time action-based combat and up to four party members can be on screen at a time. It’s similar to Final Fantasy XVI in that you control one character in real-time with basic attacks and special skills while your other companions are controlled by the AI. The fights are exciting and dynamic, with particle effects flying as swords repeatedly clash with armor and magical spells conjure blades of wind and tsunamis to envelope the battlefield. Whether it's Claude chucking fireballs out of his sword or Rena summoning giant stone orbs out of the sky, there's not a dull moment during any fight.
Even though this remake still has its original battle system, smart changes were added to make it feel more modern. There are two new mechanics called the Break and Assault Action systems. Each enemy has a shield that dampens the damage you deal, and so it's imperative that you use skills that prioritize breaking defenses rather than inflicting HP damage. Once the shield is broken, enemies are temporarily immobilized and you can wail on them. This system incentivizes you to switch up your attacks and keeps the approach varied, like Tales of Arise.
The Assault Action system takes characters not directly participating in battle and allows you to summon them to unleash support attacks. It's a fantastic way to include inactive characters in a manner that makes them feel like they're still contributing to fights. Additionally, by completing side quests, you can sometimes earn the ability to summon characters from other Star Ocean games, such as Laeticia from Star Ocean 6: The Divine Force and Edge from Star Ocean 4: The Last Hope. As a long time fan of this series, this mechanic was an excellent way to utilize nostalgia without feeling cheap. While calling on cameo characters seems strange from a narrative standpoint, they’re completely optional and you can choose to only summon characters from Second Story.
As you defeat enemies, you collect orbs to build up your Bonus GaugeBattle Bonus meter to grant passive bonuses, like increased attack power or more experience after battle, which helps keep you engaged from battle to battle. This mechanic was introduced in the third game in the series, Star Ocean: Till the End of Time. While it’s not a new mechanic to the series overall, it’s the first time Second Story has it, which is a welcome addition that makes this remake feel more in line with later entries.
Despite the exciting battle system, it’s held back by a flimsy dodge mechanic. Enemies glow red to indicate an incoming powerful attack. If you correctly time your dodge, you'll zip behind the enemy and restore some of your MP, allowing you to unleash more skills. But the timing needed to pull off a successful dodge feels off and the window isn't generous enough. Flubbing your dodge has disastrous consequences as not only does it leave you wide open to be massacred for a few seconds, it also resets your Bonus Gauge. The cons vastly outweigh the pros and I decided to just tank incoming hits from enemies instead of dodging. I could always heal my HP with an item, so it simply wasn't worth potentially being ganged up on and dying while also losing my Bonus Gauge.
After a fight, battle points earned by characters can be distributed into stats, battle skills, and abilities to make them stronger. You can choose to focus on increasing Claude's overall attacking power, or level up a certain battle skill so that it unleashes extra hits. For example, I maxed out Claude’s Sword Bomber skill, which increased the overall damage and number of fireballs launched. It’s a great way to tailor your own playstyle as I focused on Claude’s crowd control tactics--leveling up Sword Bomber effortlessly let me wipe out multiple enemies at once.
Another staple mechanic of the series, Item Creation, is back. It's a relatively simple concept where you can combine different ingredients to create a variety of weapons, items, and gear. It's not imperative to master Item Creation during a normal playthrough, but on higher difficulties and post-game content, it's definitely useful. Being able to forge stronger equipment and create specific setups for harder battles goes a long way. It adds an entire new dimension to gameplay as I was able to engineer bombs that could momentarily stun bosses and prevent them using their strongest attacks. There were also instances during battle where I needed more potent healing, so some of the potions I made recovered up to 100% HP. These higher tier items weren’t typically found in regular shops, so it's a great incentive to tinker around with Item Creation and discover new recipes and formulas.
Square Enix teamed up with GemDrops, which also developed Cogen: Sword of Rewind and Crystar, for Second Story R. The remake follows the trend of Square Enix's 2.5D graphical games, which are characterized by their 2D pixel art character sprites with retro-styled 3D environments and movement. These games include Octopath Traveler 1 and 2, Triangle Strategy, and the Live a Live remake. However, Second Story R takes this art style a step further by keeping the 2D pixel art character sprites but using fully modern 3D environments and buildings. The backgrounds, foliage, and lighting look amazing to the point that it actually looks like the 2D characters are a bit out of place. It feels as if more polygonal character models like in the original Final Fantasy VII would be more appropriate.
This remake also includes full English and Japanese voice acting, and that adds to the overall prestige of this remake. The quality of voice acting has come an enormous way since the early to late 2000s, and Second Story R’s new voice cast is lightyears ahead of its previous iterations. The voices have much more range and emotion than ever before.
Additionally, Motoi Sakuraba's newly arranged soundtrack for this game sounds immaculate. The franchise's battle themes are grandiose with their gorgeous strings mixed with electrifying guitars, making them distinctly "Star Ocean." Second Story R's battle theme, "Stab the Sword of Justice," doesn't disappoint. The newly drawn 2D character art in the menu is incredible, too; the lines and colors look sharp and crisp. If you're feeling extra nostalgic, you can switch between the new character art and the older ones from the PSP and PS1 days and have them displayed in the menu. This is a nice visual indicator of how much effort and care Square Enix and GemDrops put into this particular remake.
Another strength of Star Ocean: The Second Story R is its replayability. New Game Plus allows you to experience the story again, but has other perks such as carrying over your levels and equipment. Due to the variability of your final party, there are 99 different character endings depending on the relationship level between the characters in your party and how many Private Actions you've viewed. There are endings for each single character, as well as endings for each possible pair. Since you only have a total of eight party slots with 12 twelve possible characters, multiple playthroughs are needed to unlock every single one since different final party compositions are needed.
Trying to view all of these throughout multiple playthroughs isn't for the faint of heart. Furthermore, you don't even have to immediately get started on New Game Plus upon completing the game, either. The franchise's signature post-game dungeon, Maze of Tribulations, returns and cooks up a beefy challenge for players who want to take on the hardest fights the game has to offer.
Star Ocean: The Second Story R strikes an ideal balance between staying faithful to the original game and updating it for modern times. The revamped art style and music make it more aesthetically pleasing while the use of 2D pixel character models adds a certain nostalgic charm. The battle system didn't need a complete overhaul and the developers smartly added new features to make it feel more dynamic--the fights feel exhilarating and fun. Second Story R is jam-packed with content that will last any Japanese RPG fan satiated for hours on end.
Calling a game ambitious can come with an implied caveat. A game with great ambition can be something that reaches high and far, but can also be one that doesn't quite get there. Alan Wake 2 is one of the most ambitious games I've ever played, but don't misconstrue that, as it doesn't fall short of its lofty goals. On the contrary, Alan Wake 2 achieves virtually everything developer Remedy Entertainment set out to do. It's a game that feels novel and risky that is executed with confidence and a clarity of vision. The end result is a one-of-a-kind sequel that redefines its series, blazes trails in video game storytelling, and stands as the monument to a studio that has unlocked its potential to the fullest.
Picking up 13 years after the original game's events, Alan Wake 2 is made with two audiences in mind: those who may be new to its mystery-laden plot and those who have been decorating figurative cork board with red strings in their minds for over a decade. This is a smart way to broaden appeal to a bigger audience that Remedy executes by splitting the game into two campaigns, both unfolding using an unconventional structure.
In one campaign, FBI special agent Saga Anderson arrives at the once-quaint Bright Falls, Washington to investigate a series of disappearances and ritualistic murders. Saga is joined by her partner, Alex Casey, and becomes the perfect proxy for the uninitiated as she is soon enveloped in the juxtaposition of Bright Falls' understated but haunting atmosphere and its quirky and often upbeat townsfolk. Turning over crime scenes in an unsettling forest rich in folklore, Saga's storyline combines the rustic foreboding feelings of The Blair Witch Project with the unflinching grit of a Fincher-esque dark crime drama. The other campaign, meanwhile, sees you play as the titular Alan Wake and picks up in a nightmare realm called the Dark Place, where Alan has been trapped since the end of the first game. This malevolent space feeds off of art and memories alike, creating a personalized prison for all who enter it.
As different as they are, the two storylines feel equally crucial to the plot. Though it can be tempting to mainline one story before moving to the other, the game makes a compelling case for embracing the intertwined nature of the narrative. Players can switch between protagonists at frequent intervals using interaction points found in many of the game's safe rooms, adding a storytelling touch that brings out so much personality and can also drastically alter the experience. Having said that, the narrative doesn't lose any luster if you choose to take the one-then-the-other approach.
Saga's and Alan's stories bleed into one another at times, and somehow Remedy has ensured that the tonal shifts never detract from the overall experience, and instead offer more texture. Depending on the order in which you experience each chapter, you might have one sequence come across as sinister and foreshadowing, while another player that has taken a different path may see the same events as dramatic irony, knowing the hero is walking into wickedness. By playing all angles, the full story comes into view, which is especially well-handled and well-hidden, given how fiction blends with reality and time moves differently in the Dark Place, making the truth of any scene feel murky.
While 2010's Alan Wake had horror elements to it, Alan Wake 2 is a true survival-horror experience, complete with many of the genre's established touchpoints. As either character, you'll need to manage a puzzle-like inventory, find respite from approaching monsters in safe rooms, and try your best to line up headshots with a variety of guns you typically unlock from some sort of locked display case.
In the original game, combat encounters were meant to be tense, but not exactly scary, as evidenced by its frantic gameplay that consisted of bobbing and weaving around half a dozen monsters at a time. Here, the action slows down and tends to involve fewer but hardier enemies--a recipe that'll be familiar to horror fans. Managing a small horde of different Taken enemies, often each with their own attack patterns, becomes an engrossing exercise in survival.
Their intent is often to flank and smother you, but like they did in the first game, others may lead from the back and chuck axes at your head, demanding you time your dodges well. I enjoyed how these Taken look and largely still behave like the ones I'd seen in the original Alan Wake, but each is spongier and smarter, meaning instead of dispatching perhaps multiple enemies with one round of ammo like I could in the first game, in Alan Wake 2 I'd more often have to evade and buy myself time to reload just to take out one enemy. In the first game, you could also hit an enemy with a quick burst of light at no inventory cost in order to stun them and gain some separation. Now, though, batteries are much more limited, and this flashlight technique, though it still critically removes their inky shields, doesn't do much to ward them off after that. Enemies can also regrow their shields of darkness, meaning you have to choose when to put the pressure on and very intentionally see it through, or else you've burned through precious resources for nothing.
It built in me a hyper-awareness of my surroundings and items, as narrow forest paths or a confined cabin could give the enemies an advantage. I'd backpedal through a doorway hoping to funnel the monsters into my trap, but this was a slower, more methodical process that demanded I carefully considered my use of flares, flashbangs, and nearby Safe Haven light fixtures. The original game's combat loop had a lot of style, but not so much substance. Alan Wake 2 strikes a much better balance in a way that lends itself to its shift toward being a survival-horror game.
In that sense, Alan Wake 2 doesn't redefine the gameplay leanings of the genre, but it uses them deftly nonetheless. I typically had just enough ammo to get through an encounter, which may have left me limping to the next Safe Haven light that would let me catch my breath and plan my next move through the lush but intimidating forest surrounding Cauldron Lake. Sometimes the best decision was to flee a scene, which would shift the encounter from a gunfight against wispy shadowmen to something more akin to a vicious slasher chase.
One unique Remedy touch that distances Alan Wake 2 from something like Resident Evil or Dead Space is how comfortable it feels in sometimes not forcing players into combat just to pad out the action. Saga's investigation includes many side cases, such as solving puzzles built around weird nursery rhymes found in the woods, or looking into a mayoral candidate, which has a conclusion you ought not miss. In heading down these peripheral pathways, long stretches without combat are possible, but because the atmosphere is so rich and the world so detailed, I never felt like I was missing something. Instead, I very much wanted to pour over every cabin I could get inside of, where I'd often find not just crucial supplies as the tension built toward my next encounter, but also a litany of items that contribute to worldbuilding, which has been made more exciting than ever now that we know Alan Wake and Control share a single story world.
While foundational survival-horror mechanics are shared across both timelines, their moods, aesthetics, and themes are quite different. Saga's story plays like a police procedural, allowing the expert criminal profiler to use her almost-supernatural deductive reasoning skills to work through a twisted case of cult murders and bewitched folklore. The backdrop of the gloomy Pacific Northwest is more The Killing than the original game's Twin Peaks, though the region is still full of peculiar denizens, some of whom are genuinely hilarious--seriously, everyone is going to love the Koskela brothers' TV ads. These breaks in the horror feel impactful, whether characters remain quirky throughout the story and bring layers to the cast or, as is sometimes the case, when once-lighthearted characters break bad, leaving you feeling uneasy and untrusting.
To further immerse you in the investigation aspect of her mission, you'll fill out Saga's Case Board, which winds up having an additional benefit. Not only does it fulfill that detective fantasy of linking clues with taut red strings and cracking the case, but it serves very well as a helpful visual guide through the twisting (and twisted) story. Remembering names, events, and locations becomes much easier when it's laid out in her mental map, the Mind Place.
Late in the game, my time in the Mind Place involved a bug that demanded I brute-force and troubleshoot my way past a 15-minute scene for about 45 minutes, but Remedy has since deployed a patch that is said to have corrected this. It slightly hampered the pacing of the finale for me, but it didn't sour the experience overall. While others with the game have reported having a rougher experience, I--and other members of the GameSpot team--have had a smooth experience, barring the aforementioned bug. Again, Remedy has released a pre-launch patch to address several concerns, but there is still the chance that bugs remain.
Given how gorgeous and detailed the game is, I'm curious how some of its technical feats are possible, such as moving seamlessly between the Mind Place and the real world. It seems a testament to the studio's in-house Northlight Engine that the game can run well, look incredible, and somehow still at times defy my (admittedly limited) understanding of video game tech. And for a game about light and darkness, it's downright hypnotic in how it uses each scene to create a virtual portrait of its settings, with amber sunlight reflecting through the thick trees around Cauldron Lake as heavy rain soaks the forest, effectively creating a dreary mood.
After more than 15 hours spent mostly in Saga's timeline, I had already felt like Alan Wake 2 was one of the year's best games. Then I played Alan's campaign, which routinely subverts expectations in never-before-seen ways that I dare not spoil. Though we've seen other iterations in previous games, Alan's version of the Dark Place today manifests as a haunted noir metropolis where neon signage and hotel lobbies soaked in smooth jazz are offset by the shadowy assailants that lurk menacingly throughout the ever-shifting city. All the while, Alan finds echoes of Alex Casey conducting an investigation. This is a different Casey than Saga's partner, with this one coming from Alan's own crime fiction novels that made him famous before Alan sunk out of the physical world--and this is one of many intentionally crafted points of intrigue and confusion that Remedy expertly plays with.
New to the series, Alan's Plot Board serves as something of a gameplay analog to Saga's Case Board, albeit with very different effects. It allows him to alter reality by discovering different story details in a level that are then used like an ability, tool, or weapon upgrade. For example, in the Oceanview Hotel, you might arrive in the hotel lobby, discover an Echo of a Casey story that clues you into how you can alter the scene, and then instantly do so as Alan rewrites his story, which is reflected in-game with a technically impressive instant-switch in the environment. But with the new scene likely come new threats and opportunities, and to progress his journey, Alan's rewrites must make sense. It's a subjective puzzle mechanic that asks the player to consider narrative merit, but its rules are clear even as the pathing can be purposely dizzying, so no instance ever balloons too big.
Watching the environment change before my eyes never got old, and often when I'd know which setting and plot details would combine to advance the story, I'd use the alternate options first, like going down the secondary pathway in a traditional horror game with hopes of finding other items of interest before making my next move.
Using a stunning blend of live-action scenes that often spill into the game's rendered world, Alan Wake 2 frequently offers some of the most elaborate and beautiful imagery I've seen in the medium. Remedy has always been in favor of live-action elements in its games, but it's never been used to this extent or in this particular way. Far from the stop-and-go nature of Quantum Break's full live-action episodes pulling players out of the game, here it's more an evolution of a style Remedy first used to great effect with Control's Hotline segments. In Alan Wake 2 superimposed visions of characters and echoes of voices from another time and place creep into a scene, giving it a layered audiovisual flourish that strangely no one else in video games seems to attempt. Perhaps after Alan Wake 2, we'll see more studios try something like this, as the Finnish team has unlocked something mesmerizing with expert cinematography, a distinct style, and some wonderful sets that bring the story's arresting characters and locations to life.
Further enhanced by an intense focus on music that builds upon, and actually outshines, Control's Ashtray Maze, Alan Wake 2 stretches the definition of what a video game is and becomes an arresting multimedia fantasy that few studios would likely dare attempt. There are multiple scenes in this game, in Alan's campaign especially, that will surely be poured over and talked about with reverence, much like Control's Ashtray Maze was. Even if you've been waiting for this sequel for a long time and think you know every theory and have explored every inch of the story universe, you are simply not ready for what Alan Wake 2 has in store for you.
That's another wonderful thing about Alan Wake 2: Not only is it a gorgeous, eccentric, and immersive game, it's also meta as hell. Alan Wake 2 wraps nightmares inside timeloops tied to a distortion of the monomyth inside a metaphysical world that bleeds into reality, blurs fact and fiction, and spins out doppelgangers in every which way, and it does it all not just to be weird, but to tell an elaborate story about writing, balance, irony, and so much more. As perplexing as it certainly is, and as hazy as some of its answers to mysteries may be, Alan Wake 2 feels like it wants to be understood--it just wants you to sweat a little in getting there, and it doesn't intend to give away everything yet anyway.
There are parts of this game I interpret to be Remedy talking about its own journey in returning to the world of Alan Wake after such a long time away. It does this in such a layered and lovably strange story that even after Control, which felt like Remedy had stepped up its narrative ambitions significantly, it now seems as though Remedy has found yet another new benchmark for itself, while creating new avenues that we may see replicated by other teams in the future. At one point I worried that Sam Lake, Remedy's creative director, may be retiring after this because it feels so vision-complete and full of purpose, like a last hurrah. And having finished the game, I wonder how the studio will top it.
The Remedy Connected Universe (RCU) also comes into view like never before in Alan Wake 2, making the game not just an Alan Wake sequel, but also includes a continuation of Control's story, some (legally transformative) nods to Max Payne and Quantum Break, and an apparent setup for the next RCU game. The details light my brain on fire with the bewildering possibilities and implications Alan Wake 2 creates. The tangled web Remedy continues to weave through its shared story world is exciting and unique even at a time when spin-offs and tie-ins are dominating movies, TV, and games. Though you can enjoy Alan Wake 2 as a singular timesink in your gaming catalog, those who dive in with knowledge of (or a desire to understand) the RCU elements are going to have their minds blown.
The idea of what Alan Wake 2 could be has changed so much over the years, but in playing the game, I was reminded of Sam Lake saying how he was so happy that all the previous versions of this game never worked out, and how excited he was that this is the Alan Wake 2 the world has finally received. I have to emphatically agree. The mere existence of an Alan Wake 2 would have, at different points over the years, felt like a minor miracle, but for it to be this one, that feels singular in its achievements, and coming from a studio that refuses to shy away from the paths less traveled, makes Alan Wake 2 a miracle illuminated.
Metal Gear Solid and its sequels are seminal titles in the history of video games, pioneering the 3D stealth-action genre in conjunction with an ambitious approach to cinematic storytelling. Replaying them again after more than 15 years put me in a state of constant surprise as I was reminded how much each game is still ingrained in the recesses of my brain. From finishing lines of dialogue I hadn't heard since the PlayStation 2 was brand-new to being able to navigate the winding corridors, air vents, and layered depths of Shadow Moses and Big Shell like the back of my hand--it's clear how much of an impact the series had on my youth, and I know I'm not the only one. Because of this, the Metal Gear Solid: Master Collection Vol. 1 feels important, both as a means of historical preservation and as a nostalgia-fueled time machine for one of the most influential series of all time.
Konami has certainly assembled an impressive assortment of games for this bundle, beginning where it all started for creator Hideo Kojima. The original 8-bit Metal Gear and Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake--as well as the standalone NES version of Metal Gear and the non-canonical sequel, Snake's Revenge--are all included in the Master Collection. Having been released in 1987 and 1990 for the MSX2 computer platform, Metal Gear and Metal Gear 2 are showing their age--though surprisingly not to the point where their archaic design renders them unplayable. Played from an overhead 2D perspective, ranged combat is inherently clunky due to your restrictive four-way movement, and any missteps are at the mercy of an unforgiving checkpoint system. Despite these flaws, however, there aren't many aspects of either game that feel so antiquated that you can't get something positive out of playing them. It helps that the controls have been updated and unified for this collection, with both triggers letting you access either the items or weapons in your inventory, much like they do in the Metal Gear Solid games. Other than this, Metal Gear and Metal Gear 2 are unchanged from the originals.
More than anything, revisiting the series' humble beginnings essentially functions as a virtual museum, providing you with a fascinating look at how familiar elements began and then evolved as Metal Gear made the monumental shift to 3D. Both games--particularly Metal Gear 2--feel like blueprints for what was to come, establishing the foundations for Metal Gear Solid and stealth-action video games as a whole. Codec conversations, alert statuses, enemy-identifying radar, and gameplay concepts such as crawling through vents and using sound to draw the enemy's attention were all part of the series' roots over 33 years ago. Even if you have no interest in seeing either game through to completion, it's worth at least giving them a try to see where Metal Gear got its start.
As far as appetizers go, Metal Gear isn't a bad start, but the main course of the Master Collection is undoubtedly the first three Metal Gear Solid games. The first in the series, originally released in 1998, is the most significant of the bunch, mainly because--outside of a PC release on GOG and its inclusion on the PlayStation Classic--it hasn't been readily available since it was sold digitally for the PS3. The Master Collection version is also virtually unchanged from the original release, still displaying natively in a 4:3 aspect ratio with blocky PS1 textures that mean Snake barely has a distinguishable face. You can choose to align your display area to the left, right, or center, and there are multiple wallpapers to choose from to fill in the blank areas of the screen (including simple black borders,) so you have options for modifying the smaller aspect ratio to suit you.
The dated visuals are also inherent to the experience. Maybe that's nostalgia speaking, but Metal Gear Solid hasn't lost any of its atmosphere in the 25 years since its release. From the opening vocals of "The Best is Yet to Come" to discovering the gory aftermath of Gray Fox's handiwork, MGS is bursting at the seams with memorable moments that transcend the limitations of its original hardware. It's also still an excellent game to play, aided somewhat by its use of fixed camera angles. Not only does this decision contribute to the game's cinematic stylings, allowing certain scenes to be framed with an eye for cinematography, but it also avoids the awkward camera controls that afflicted many early 3D games. Back in 1998, developers hadn't quite figured out how to handle manual camera control because not every controller had dual thumbsticks. A lot of these games are overly cumbersome to play nowadays, but MGS doesn't have this issue. Combat is still a tad fiddly because there's no manual aim, and running and gunning requires you to hold down two buttons at the same time, which isn't the most intuitive option, but it's all still manageable.
The Master Collection gives you a chance to appreciate the series' evolution. Going from MGS on the PS1 to the PS2's Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty shows an obvious leap in myriad areas. The addition of first-person aiming introduced the ability to fire your weapon with precision, solving one of the first game's aforementioned restrictions. The improvement in visual fidelity is also startling, although the version included here isn't the original PS2 release but rather Bluepoint's superb remaster from the Metal Gear Solid HD Collection. Playing on PS5, both MGS2 and Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater output at 1080p and run at 60 frames per second, and they include the additional features initially present in the Substance and Subsistence editions of each game. This means you can opt to play Snake Eater with the original fixed camera or the much-improved third-person camera, which gives you full control on the right analog stick.
The visuals still fall well short of today's standards, but I'm in favor of retaining as much of the original games as possible. This doesn't mean Konami had to leave them alone completely, though. Other similar collections have added optional visual improvements, allowing you to swap between the original game and an updated version with greater graphical fidelity. Maybe this doesn't make sense in Snake Eater's case since a fully-fledged remake is already in development, but the Master Collection would've been elevated by including some optional advancements to modernize MGS and MGS2.
I spent countless hours playing the MGS2 Tanker demo back in 2001 and immediately fell back on old habits revisiting that opening sequence in the Master Collection: shooting the bottles of alcohol behind the bar; kicking locker doors off their hinges until they crushed me; holding up guards with a tranquilizer gun and forcing them to shake to drop their dog tags; hiding in a cardboard box in the pantry to avoid the guards clearing the room; shooting an enemy's radio to prevent them from calling in reinforcements. The attention to detail is impressive and a lot of this still feels novel today, like alerting an enemy because Snake couldn't hold in a sneeze after being outside in the freezing rain for too long. I'm still not quite over Kojima pulling the rug out from under our feet by replacing Snake with Raiden once the game moves to the Big Shell, mostly because the white-haired pretty boy is still as irritating today as he was back then. The way it subverted expectations as a prescient sociopolitical commentary would become a precursor for the rest of the series.
MGS3, Snake Eater, took the action back to the '60s and ditched the radar in favor of an ambitious camouflage system that allowed you to switch outfits and seamlessly blend into its forested environments. The series veered more heavily into the absurd beginning with MGS2, from introducing a seemingly immortal vampire--who nonetheless earned the name Vamp because he's bisexual--to a villain being possessed by an arm, and a ghost whose boss fight revolves around walking down an otherworldly river and being haunted by all of the people you've killed. With this absurdity, the series also became much more verbose, delving into lengthy expositional tangents, often over-explaining simple concepts and veering wildly between political intrigue, science-fiction, melodrama, and tongue-in-cheek humor. Kojima's eclectic style is part of the series' charm, but there are times when it can feel overbearing. Snake Eater's opening is one such example, as it drags on for far too long, unevenly skewing the cutscene-to-playtime ratio in the former's favor. Fortunately, once the setup is done, Snake Eater leaves you alone with very few prolonged interruptions. Yet it's worth noting that the series is infamous for its long-winded cutscenes for a reason.
Konami has added the option to pause cutscenes in a roundabout way, but it only works in Metal Gear Solid. Pausing in the original 1998 release didn't provide you with any options, so Konami has added what's called a Stance Menu so you can view an online manual, change various controller settings, fiddle with the display area, and so on. The fact that accessing this menu pauses the game--even during cutscenes--is a useful side effect, but one that doesn't transfer to MGS 2 or MGS3.
There aren't any noticeable changes to the original games aside from this. As a result, each one begins with a content warning, noting that some of the game's "expressions and themes may be considered outdated" but "have been included without alteration to preserve the historical context in which the game was made and the creator’s original vision." While this doesn't point to any specific examples, it doesn't take long before Snake's hitting on the first two female characters you meet in the original Metal Gear Solid. There's also a plot point that centers on the shape of Meryl's posterior, leering shots of Eva's cleavage in Snake Eater, discussions of some heavy incest themes, and a scene where the president grabs Raiden's crotch unprompted to confirm his sex, to name just a few controversial and outdated moments. These instances are cringy, gratuitous, and sometimes uncomfortable, but I also think Konami's approach is the correct one, otherwise each game would have to be significantly altered.
Aside from the core games themselves, there are also several bonus goodies included in this bundle. Metal Gear Solid comes packaged with VR Missions, Special Missions, and Integral. The latter was never released outside of Japan because most of the changes were already implemented in the Western release of MGS, but it's still a notable piece of digital memorabilia. It's a shame there isn't any behind-the-scenes material included in this collection. YouTube is home to various "Making Of" videos, so even if there wasn't any new material to include, it would've been nice if these videos were featured and output at a higher quality. Each game does come with a wonderfully in-depth Master Book that features pages upon pages of information on every game in the series, character biographies, story synopses, details on various gameplay mechanics, and so on. Screenplay Books, on the other hand, detail all of the dialogue in each game, while the digital graphic novels for MGS and MGS2 feature animations, sound effects, and music for the full experience.
Accessing all of this content is a little messy because the collection isn't assembled in one convenient place. Instead, each part has to be downloaded separately and exists as its own app, independent of the rest. Bonuses such as the graphic novels and VR Missions even have to be downloaded as free DLC, which has presumably been done to keep file sizes down. This is a positive in some ways, as it means you can simply download the games you want to play without the rest eating up valuable hard drive space, but it would be easier to access everything if it weren't compartmentalized. There are some conspicuous omissions, too, such as Peace Walker, which was included in the HD Collection but doesn't make the cut here, and rarities like Twin Snakes and Acid that are still confined to the GameCube and PSP respectively. Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots also falls into this category, seeing as the only way to play it is on the PS3. The Vol. 1 designation indicates that there may be a second Master Collection, ideally including all of these games, but we'll have to wait and see.
Konami has still put together a comprehensive bundle, collecting five highly influential games (and multiple variations) from a period spanning 24 years. There are other ways to play these games, but I think we often undersell the appeal of convenience. Being able to easily access them all on a modern console is a major selling point. For someone like me, who only ever owned the original games on their original consoles, Metal Gear Solid: Master Collection Vol. 1 is indispensable. It's disappointing that there aren't any optional visual improvements or behind-the-scenes material, and the lack of a central hub makes the bundle feel scattershot. The bonus content that is here is simply a cherry on top, however, lending the entire package a sense of reverence for one of the most important series in video game history.
The iconography behind a handful of thieves donning twisted masks during a violent heist has transcended many forms of media, but they're nowhere more recognizable through a gaming lens than in the enduring Payday series. This cooperative heist simulator borrows elements from some of the best in the genre but has consistently offered a distinct spin on the ensuing chaos by delivering memorable and elaborate jobs for you and your friends to pull off. It's been a long time since the last entry in the series, in part due to Payday 2's long-standing post-launch support, but in its third entry, wholesale overhauls to its formula are impeded by a lack of content and a baffling progression system.
Payday 3 once again rounds up the familiar band of thieves for another handful of assorted heists, this time strung together by a loose and entirely uninteresting plot about a conspiracy that takes itself far too seriously. It contrasts poorly against the absurdity of the jobs themselves, each of which takes place in a relatively grounded location but often requires absurd steps for completion. Coupled with the comical number of cops you'll face most of the time and the ridiculous gadgets you'll employ to break into vaults and locked-down crypto wallets, it makes the narrative tying everything all together feel like it's from a different game.
Thankfully, it's one of the least important aspects of this revamped cooperative shooter, which redefines what a successful heist is in the first place. All but one of the game's heists can now be completed entirely without firing a bullet, giving a savvy team of four the chance to think about circumventing security cameras or hiding from nosy guards and achieving the perfect getaway in the vein of Ocean's Eleven. Payday 2 players might recall that this was technically possible in the previous title, but it often required gear that only unlocked much later in the game to achieve the exact same objectives that going loud did anyway. Payday 3 splits the path of passive and aggressive with unique objectives for each, comfortably shifting from the former to the latter when the jig is up and you're forced to don your masks and brandish a weapon.
Stealth plays a big role in achieving a silent heist, and while Payday 3 might not feel like the most mechanically sound game in this regard, it does present some novel ideas that contribute to cooperative quiet missions. For example, if you're caught wandering around a restricted area, guards will typically not sound the alarm immediately and instead instruct you to follow them to the exit. Doing so will keep the heist in a non-violent state, but also remove a guard from his outpost, potentially exposing an area for infiltration by a teammate. If you're using silent weapons, you can also use them to permanently take out a guard. But doing so will trigger inquisitive radio check-ins from other patrols, forcing you to fake a response to keep an alert at bay. Repeating any of these and similar actions eventually will move guards to sound the alarm and start firing, but the tense area between being completely undetected and being forced to pull out your weapon is a fun playground that lets you get far more creative than the binary states would otherwise suggest.
The objectives required to pull off a silent heist are clearly laid out by your in-game handler, with only a handful of instances during a gig where you'll need to take some vague clues and figure out your next step. Noting codes shared via emails or using in-game signage to make out where an important room might be are nice environmental touches that accentuate the reward of progressing to the next phase of the robbery, while the clear direction outside of that keeps things from feeling too obtuse (as they often could in Payday 2). Items required for each objective are randomized, too, so even though the order in which you complete objectives stays the same each time you repeat a heist, you still have to put yourself in danger and figure out new routes to get through them. Seasoned players will eventually be blazing past unaware guards and leaving new players to wonder what is happening in lower difficulties, but Payday 3 does a decent job of scaling the difficulty of stealth when you're after a bit more of a challenge.
When it is time to go loud, Payday 3 is a sufficiently competent first-person shooter that works well within the context of its nearly endless barrage of enemy waves. As objectives shift to completing the heist as soon as possible, you'll be forced to set up complicated drills to breach thick safe doors or rotate around signal hot spots to accelerate a remote hack. These objectives are purposefully delayed so that you're forced to defend yourself against increasingly more varied waves of police forces. Those start with just standard armored officers and eventually include specialized units such as hulking brutes, shield-bearing units, and even one particularly pesky acrobatic foe that loves to knock you on the floor and incapacitate you with punches until a teammate helps out.
This enemy variety helps make the otherwise routine action enjoyable as you count down the seconds to move on to your next objective, even if the practicality of the number of people you're killing to pull off a heist goes well beyond comical just a few moments in. Despite that, weapons feel punchy, and general movement, whether it's whipping your view around to return fire at enemies behind you or simple strafing movements when aiming down the sights, feel delightfully precise, making chains of accurate kills incredibly satisfying. For a long time, you'll be using the same handful of weapons that you start with in Payday 3, so it's somewhat forgiving that they're at least fun to use for that period.
Each of the eight heists in Payday 3 delivers a different take on the heist formula that avoids feeling like one bank robbery after another (even if it does start with exactly that). Standouts, such as the neon-drenched club in Rock the Cradle, where you're looking to steal a bulging digital wallet full of crypto instead of bags of cash, or the ridiculously elaborate old-fashioned bank in Gold and Sharke, all use clever layouts and well-placed objectives to make silent infiltration a challenging endeavor and loud extractions a frantic sprint to the end. There's a noticeable degree of intricacy to each heist, especially the seven that let you complete them without firing a bullet. It wouldn't be strange to recall recent Hitman games as you start piecing together predictable guard movements and placement of security cameras to effectively make your way in, and, while they never come close to reaching those same heights, the thoughtful ambition is an appreciated improvement for the series. It's just a pity that there are so few heists at launch, which becomes painfully apparent all too quickly as you start cycling through them to obtain better gear.
Progression is where Payday 3 loses a lot of its momentum. Standard progression comes in the form of XP, which increases your overall player level and allows you to purchase previously restricted weapons and gear. You also accrue experience towards unlocking skills on a robust skill tree, which is broken down into various archetypes you can adopt for your character. These skills can be researched in any order (all you need to do is select one and experience earned will go towards unlocking it), but given that each perk mostly only affects one of three stats, it can feel somewhat meaningless to engage with. Skills have activation triggers for health, damage, and defense buffs, and while having a combination of five at a time does give you something to think about while engaged in a firefight, the effects of these boons isn't something you're likely to notice, and certainly not something that makes the effect to attain each skill feel worthwhile.
Player progression is, however, incredibly slow, since it's tied to the completion of challenges rather than heists themselves. Initially, it's difficult to tell the difference since you'll naturally be completing early-game challenges without even trying as you complete each heist the first few times. But the limitations quickly become apparent, with Payday 3 forcing you to play in certain ways just to progress. This can mean replaying heists and forcing certain objectives to occur just for the sake of completion, robbing that instance of the dynamic aspects that are so wonderfully crafted to make each gig feel distinct. It also creates matchmaking problems where some players will join a match with a challenge goal in mind and focus entirely on that, dragging the rest of the team along or simply leaving the lobby once they've completed it.
The stagnant nature of completing challenges to level up also negatively impacts the rate at which you'll get to experience most of Payday 3's already limited number of weapons. It's possible that after 10 hours of play you'll still be using the same rifle and handgun combination that you started with, given that many early weapon unlocks are for more niche weapon types such as shotguns and long-range rifles. While not useless, the versatility of a rifle is somewhat unrivaled in many of Payday 3's stages and layouts, so that limited number of overall options to experiment with over time is disappointing. Being able to unlock mods for each weapon does alleviate this somewhat, letting you attach an assortment of scopes, barrels, suppressors, and more to each of your weapons. But it's still not enough to fix the dissonance created by a gameplay loop that wants to incentivize you to steal as much money as you can in order to purchase new toys, only for those options to be locked away for hours on end as your bank balance bursts at the seams.
With the generous post-launch support that Payday 2 received over years, only time will tell if the same treatment can address the glaring issues with Payday 3's current progression system and evident lack of content when compared to its previous iteration. But it has established a strong foundation for the new, elaborate heists that it has drastically improved upon, inciting you to play Payday in ways you couldn't in the past. If you're more concerned with just having a good time pulling off the perfect robbery with some friends, Payday 3 features rich new challenges and satisfying stealth objectives to keep you entertained for some time. But if you need tangible rewards to keep you around after you've experienced Payday 3's limited number of heists, then its unrewarding grind might keep its limited loot behind a vault door you aren't willing to wait around to crack open.
On its face, Hot Wheels Unleashed 2: Turbocharged is a continuation of the original game that doesn't offer many drastic changes or additions. Underneath the surface, however, there are a ton of small improvements in both the gameplay and the content that make for a better experience overall.
The main campaign of Hot Wheels Unleashed 2: Turbocharged is a collection of racing events connected via an overworld map. This time around, these events are loosely tied together by a story about massive monsters invading the city. The two main heroes must shrink these monsters down and beat them by driving Hot Wheels. The story is told through short cutscenes that feature stills of the cartoon protagonists and a Saturday-morning-cartoon-style tone. It's not particularly great--the dialogue is over the top and the jokes don't land--but these cutscenes are pretty infrequent and short, so it's a small part of the experience.
The racing itself is easily the most enjoyable part of the game, with major improvements to the feel. Each Hot Wheels vehicle is now given a class, like drifter, off-road, or rocket, which gives you a rough idea of how the vehicle controls. Drifters specialize in drifting, naturally, while rockets have the highest available speed, but lack in control. With some classes, like the Off-Road, you can tell their specialty just by looking at the vehicle; it's nice to know at a glance what a standard looking car is good at without having to find out by racing. Each racing event is labeled with the class best suited for the track, giving you an idea of the best vehicle to pick without needing to run a practice lap first. For the most part, you aren't forced to use the recommended vehicle class, so you can always pick your favorite Hot Wheel, regardless of the situation, which is a nice touch.
These recommendations can be very important, though, since many of the tracks now feature off-road sections, where you drive directly on the pavement, mini-golf turf, or carpet of the environment, which each has a drastically different level of traction compared to the plastic tracks. The five different environments--Gas Station, Mini-Golf, Museum, Arcade, and Backyard--are all utilized well, with many of the races using the regular environment, like a countertop inside the gas station, in the race. Each environment offers not only a different aesthetic, but different obstacles that can be used as part of the race track. This is especially true in the new Waypoints races, where you need to reach each checkpoint in an environment as fast as possible. These races typically feature little to no track, instead asking you to navigate the furniture and other obstacles already in the environment, which really highlights the detail in these environments. These races are also far different than other types, offering some variety, especially since the traction on the ground is very different from on the track.
Obstacles have been improved as well and far more are present than in the previous entry. These obstacles come in a couple different forms. Sometimes, these are miscellaneous objects like golf balls or wooden blocks that can be knocked away by boosting through them. There are also barriers that have to be jumped over, but those are noted by warning signs, so it doesn't feel like you're being tricked into crashing. There are also track hazards, like a massive bat that blows wind against you and a shark that closes its mouth over the track. None of these obstacles are too difficult to avoid, but that added dimension to the racing makes it feel more like Hot Wheels than just another arcade racer.
The racing itself has two major new additions that add a needed layer of complexity. The first is a jump, which requires a small amount of boost meter to use. Jumping is useful to avoid some obstacles, but certain tracks have sections where a jump is required to clear a gap in the track. Since these come up somewhat frequently, it requires you to manage your boost meter instead of just constantly using it to gain extra speed. The jumps typically have a few warning signs ahead of them, but if you miss the jump you will need to respawn, setting you back in the race. It's enough of a punishment that it helps enforce the need to manage your boost without forcing you to restart the race, which feels like a good balance.
The second new move is a sideways dash, which can be used to bash into other racers, and it also requires a bit of boost. While this maneuver is never required during a race, it can be helpful to knock an opponent off a track, especially in an elimination race where the bottom racers are eliminated from the race at certain time intervals until only first place remains. The CPU racers will also take advantage of this move, adding another layer of difficulty.
Hot Wheels Unleashed 2: Turbocharged has a wider variety of Hot Wheels to collect and race with, including the introduction of ATVs and motorcycles. With the introduction of vehicle classes, each type of Hot Wheel has a distinct feel, making unlocking a new one more exciting. Each Hot Wheel can be upgraded, too. The overall level can be increased, which just gives a flat boost to stats across the board. There are also perks you can unlock and equip, but most of these come with a negative. For example, a perk might reduce your boost consumption, but it will also reduce the speed boost. While you can use these tradeoffs to tweak a vehicle to your playstyle, none of them feel particularly compelling or even necessary to succeed.
Despite there being more Hot Wheels to collect, actually collecting them feels worse. There are numerous challenges to complete, with each challenge offering a reward for turning it in. You complete one or two of these challenges in nearly every race in the campaign, but the vast majority of the rewards given are profile customization options. These include profile images, banners, tags, and backgrounds. These options don't matter much, especially if you aren't playing online, and the overwhelming number you receive really drives home just how uninteresting these unlocks are. Some of these challenges offer a prize wheel spin or a car, but these are infrequent.
Instead, Hot Wheels are unlocked by purchasing them with coins earned from completing races from a rotating shop. The shop can be refreshed whenever you want for a small amount of coins, but just picking vehicles out of the shop isn't as exciting as being given one as a reward. Hot Wheels can also be obtained from a prize wheel spin, but there are also upgrade points and coins on the wheel, which are seemingly given out more frequently than vehicles. You also only get wheel spins every couple of profile levels or for a select few challenges, so the overall number of Hot Wheels you get from a spin can be counted on one hand by the time the campaign has been completed, which is disappointing. The shop has a small selection which refreshes on a timer--although you can pay a small amount of coins to refresh it sooner--but it frequently has duplicates in it. While being able to pick which Hot Wheels you get can be nice, there is something special about being rewarded with a vehicle you didn't even know was in the game.
You can customize your Hot Wheels, with the option to change the paint color and material for a handful of different parts of each vehicle. You can also make stickers and place them over the outside of each car to create a unique personal style. These designs can be shared online and you can pull designs from there if you don't want to do the work yourself. Each Hot Wheels vehicle already has its own personality and design, but being able to customize them is a nice touch.
The campaign includes several boss fights, with each featuring a monster like a scorpion or a yeti. These take form as a large creature on top of the starting line in the race, but don't provide unique obstacles. Each boss race has targets on a track, with each broken target dealing damage. The boss has a meter that fills up over time that will end the race if it fills all the way, while hitting a board resets the meter. At the start of the race, you can miss a target and still make it to the next one, assuming you move quickly enough. As the race continues, the amount of time it takes the meter to fill gets shorter, forcing you to hit every board in your path. These boss races don't do enough to differentiate themselves from each other, but there are only a handful.
Beating a boss unlocks that boss as a track piece for the track builder, which no longer requires you to spend coins to unlock new parts. Instead, the vast majority of track pieces are already available, letting you build whatever you want out of the gate. The tutorial doesn't do the best job of letting you know how everything works in the builder, but it's fairly easy to figure out and put together a simple track, although making more complicated tracks will take some practice.
The track builder seems to include every track piece used in the races in the campaign, so there aren't any restrictions on the complexity of what you can build, making both building and racing on community tracks fun. Finding a community track is pretty simple, as there are recommended tabs, alongside a selection of the most liked tracks over a certain period of time. You can also filter by tags, environments, and even track names, making it easier to find a specific type of track. The overall sharing system is fairly simple and has enough filtering options to make it quick and easy to use.
Hot Wheels Unleashed 2: Turbocharged does make improvements over the original, but it is still largely the same game. The added depth to the racing itself is where it shines the most and the new vehicle classes provide a nice complexity and incentive to use a wider variety of Hot Wheels. The challenges and rewards are disappointing and the story doesn't add much to the campaign, but most of your time will be spent burning plastic on orange tracks, which is still fun.
Whether Nintendo intended it or not, conventional wisdom tends to sort modern Mario games into something of a mental tier list. The 3D Mario games like Galaxy and Odyssey are the flagship mascot platformers, and 2D Mario games like the New Super Mario Bros. series are somewhat lesser retro throwbacks. Still good, dependable, but less prestigious. It's after years of 2D games languishing in understudy status that Super Mario Bros. Wonder takes center stage--and it delivers such a knockout performance that it makes the argument, implicit or otherwise, that 2D Mario games can be just as vital to the medium as their 3D siblings.
In essence, the Wonder effects that lend Mario Wonder its title can be likened to the planetoids of Super Mario Galaxy--a simple, easily understood hook that gave stage designers carte blanche to be as inventive and strange as they'd like, constantly reinventing the mechanics and subverting expectations. The result once again is a game filled to the brim with delightful little surprises, like unwrapping a series of gifts made just for you, the discerning fan of Mario platforming.
Those Wonder effects extend from the story, which is loose and unobtrusive. Mario and his pals are visiting Prince Florian of the neighboring Flower Kingdom, who's keen to show off his kingdom's greatest treasure, the Wonder Flower. But Bowser crashes the diplomatic event, naturally, and steals the Wonder Flower, transforming himself into a living, floating castle that towers over the kingdom and corrupts everything inside. Premise secured, Mario and company rush to the rescue. The exact scientific effects of Wonder Flowers are never properly explained, but we get the gist well enough: It changes reality in huge, often unexpected ways.
That story premise effectively writes Nintendo a blank check for creativity, allowing any flight of fancy to take place for exactly as long or short as it needs to find the fun. In doing so, it recaptures the unpredictable dream-like logic that made the original games so memorable.
One moment, you'll be jumping and spinning your way through a traditional Super Mario stage, and the next you may be transformed into a Goomba and hiding from carnivorous creatures that eat Goombas, or seeing yourself only in silhouette, or bounding along to a rhythmic dance. Some of these are genuinely challenging, while others that are played as a cute joke that provide a quick breather. You never quite know what's coming next.
Very occasionally, a Wonder effect will repeat itself, but this is typically an effect that can support multiple stages. The one memorable exception is very early in the game, when two Bulrush stages follow closely after each other. These stages have you riding on the back of a stampeding herd, and it's a fun gag the first time, but I will admit I felt a little nervous at the repetition coming so early in the game. If they're already repeating ideas, maybe there's less inventiveness than I'd hoped? Luckily that fear abated as I explored further and came across the multitude of varied Wonder effects and stage types.
The variety is aided by the new setting, which also grants the opportunity to come up with tons of new enemy types that fit right into Mario's traditional visual and gameplay aesthetic. We get the return of familiar favorites like Goombas and Boos, along with loads of inventive new additions. Condarts are fast, razor-beaked flyers that charge straight towards you and then stick into the ground or wall. Hoppycats are dangerous spike-shelled foes that jump whenever you do, requiring you to think through your approach more carefully. Mumsies are mummy-like creatures that are invulnerable unless you approach them from behind and give their dangling wrapping a good tug, at which point they unravel into nothing. The list goes on and on.
What's most surprising is that, despite the new enemy types and constant sense of surprise provided by the Wonder Flowers, Super Mario Bros. Wonder never loses its identity as a Mario game. The platforming is as sharp as ever, and the level design functions as a great Mario game even when you miss or choose not to pick up a Wonder Flower. The craftsmanship of the level design shows in the little touches, like how watering one of the kingdom's many magical flowers will make its petals flutter along the wind, awarding you with coins while also subtly drawing your eye toward points of interest.
The handful of new power-ups similarly fit right into Mario canon. The headliner is the Elephant power-up, which makes Mario and his friends jumbo-sized and grants them extra strength and the ability to gather and spray water with their trunks. The Bubble power-up, which lets you trap enemies or create poppable platforms to jump on, feels like such a simple-done-well concept that it could have existed in Mario for years. My personal favorite was the Drill Suit, which lets you dig underground or even into the ceiling, burrow to a new point, and then pop up under an enemy or near a hard-to-reach item. It excels as both a defensive and offensive tool and aids in exploration--plus the swirly pattern on Peach's dress is just fashionable.
All of this would be the strongest outing for a 2D Mario game in years, but then Mario Wonder builds even more on top of it. A wide array of Mario's cast of characters are represented and playable, letting you play as Mario, Luigi, Peach, Daisy, Yellow or Blue Toad, Toadette, several Yoshis, and Nabbit. The Yoshis and Nabbit are invulnerable to damage, making them good starter characters without needing to default to a menu option or turning on "Easy Mode" for younger kids.
However, Mario's friends are without their trademark abilities that originated in Mario 2, which may throw some longtime fans from a loop. Luigi lacks his high-reaching flutter-jump, and Peach can't float-jump. Playing as these characters without those movement abilities felt a little off, and this does have the effect of flattening each character into an identical playstyle. There is no actual gameplay difference between, say, Toad and Luigi, and that can be hard to get used to. It seems aimed at putting everyone on an even playing field, though, and it works well enough.
The story premise effectively writes Nintendo a blank check for creativity, allowing any flight of fancy to take place for exactly as long or short as it needs to find the fun.
In place of distinct character abilities are Badges, effectively giving Mario and his friends a light equipment system. This is where you can equip a "Floating High Jump" badge that emulates the flutter-jump, for example, so if you want to equip that and play as Luigi, you can recreate the feeling. (There is no Peach float-jump badge, though, as far as I've found). Badges come in three varieties. Action Badges, like the Floating High Jump, change your actual gameplay behavior in some notable way, while Boost Badges give you some passive benefit. Safety Bounce, for example, provides a one-time save if you fall into a pit or spikes, while Coin Reward grants you coins whenever you beat any enemies. Rare Expert Badges change the game in significant, challenging ways with bigger gameplay effects than the other two varieties. You can only equip one badge at a time, and the game lets you hit a "Prince's Choice" button to get advice on what badge might be the best fit for a new stage. Altogether, these create a playground of different styles that you can customize to your liking. Some badges come down to personal preference and there's usually one or two that will make a stage easier, but you can also challenge yourself by replaying with a badge that makes the stage even harder, or use a badge to turn on "!" blocks that might uncover new secrets. Discovering all the permutations invites replayability and exploration.
That customization does come with one important caveat. In local co-op, you can only equip one badge at a time for all characters, which means you each have to commit to a single playstyle or power that two players may not agree on. This would seem to be for game balance, except that the rule doesn't apply to online multiplayer. When partnering with friends over the internet, you can each equip your own Badges to suit your preferences or even brainstorm creative combinations. Given that, it's strange that local co-op feels comparatively hampered.
In fact, the online multiplayer in Super Mario Bros. Wonder is thoughtful and well-designed throughout, which is surprising for a series that has often treated online play as an afterthought. You can join up in a lobby and play through stages together or just venture off on your own. If you do join the same stage you can work on conquering it together or trigger a speedrun-like race to complete the course first. It all feels modernized in a way that Mario has, traditionally, fallen short.
And as well-crafted as the online multiplayer is, the standout for me was the suite of new online features that enhance the experience even when you're playing solo. You have access to standees, and collecting these is one use of the in-game coin economy. You can lay down one standee anywhere in a stage as long as you can duck and hit X there, and then your standee will populate into other players' games. You can use this to drop a hint about hidden secrets or just provide a respite to other players. That's because if you die in a stage, you turn into a ghost and can revive yourself by touching a nearby standee--just like how in multiplayer you can do so by touching another player. So it behooves you to leave standees in helpful places, and every time they get touched, you earn Heart Points to show what a helpful player you are.
Playing while connected to the Internet also means you'll sometimes see the shadows of other players wandering through the stage, which can assist you in figuring out a tricky platforming puzzle. This is best exemplified in the new Search Party stages, where you need to find five hidden coins. The standees and shadows can help point you in the right direction, making for an asynchronous puzzle-solving experience that feels great. If you'd rather figure out the solutions yourself, of course, you can always just disconnect and those ghosts and standees will disappear.
Search Party is one of several new stage types that mix up the traditional platforming stages. You'll also find Badge Challenge, where you earn a badge by proving you understand how to use it; KO Arena, a timed stage that awards flower coins based on how fast you can take down rooms of varied enemy types; and Break Time, a quick, less-than-a-minute jaunt of some random minigame or task.
All of these different stage types are littered through an overworld that lets you freely roam to discover secrets and, mostly, take on the stages in any order you choose. The whole world feels alive and engaging, encouraging exploration and replay to uncover all the stages, Wonder effects, shops, and more.
And then, there's a surprising level of craft and care put into the presentation. Even the visually dull New Super Mario Bros. series has looked pretty solid, but Super Mario Bros. Wonder looks downright incredible, with attention paid to facial expressions and animations, along with backgrounds and stage elements with bright confectionary colors that pop right off the screen. Some moments are visually arresting, which is more than I've been able to say about a 2D Mario game in some time. Special attention is also paid to audio, especially via a running commentary provided by the talking flowers littered throughout the kingdom. These chatterboxes might provide hints or just crack a joke about some wild new enemy or Wonder Effect. This was a risky choice given Nintendo's checkered history with chatty sidekicks, but the flowers are genuinely funny, largely unobtrusive additions that help steer the player in the right direction--sometimes literally.
Super Mario Bros. Wonder is a bold choice for a name. It plants a flag in the ground that suggests anything less than a constant sense of awe and delight will be a failure by its own terms. But then, surprisingly, Mario Wonder rises to the challenge and the result is a modern classic. The Wonder effects are the marquee feature, and for good reason, as they serve as a springboard for a cornucopia of creativity. But it's the smart and thoughtful choices around new power-ups, badges, online multiplayer, and visual flair that cement it in Mario canon. This is the rightful successor to Super Mario World, and hopefully, will serve as a touchstone for 2D Mario going forward.
Like the first two games, the true star of Spider-Man 2 is its story. It finally gives us the chance to jump between playing as either Peter or Miles as the two work together to protect New York City from Kraven, a fierce warrior looking to transform the city into his hunting ground. Their personal lives don't fare any less stressful--Peter and Miles are both stuck, struggling to figure out what's next for them. Peter desperately yearns to find a steady job and Miles can't quite find his place in the world while still contending with the trauma of losing both his dad and a close friend within the same year.
The crux of Spider-Man 2 is the cold isolation of loneliness and how Peter, Miles, and all those around them handle it. Both Spider-Men feel adrift at the start of the game, each lost and desperately seeking some form of respite and companionship in hopes of filling that void, but Peter can't quite convince Mary Jane to move in with him, and Miles can only watch from afar as his friends get into college and pursue their dreams while he busies himself with Spider-Man responsibilities. It's an effective draw to pull you into caring about both protagonists as the game flips between them and curates a throughline that connects all of Spider-Man 2's characters--both heroic and villainous--through an assortment of main story and side missions.
This throughline is best appreciated if you're going into Spider-Man 2 having played both of the previous games, as the storyline's most meaningful moments all build on developments that Peter, Miles, MJ, Rio, and the rest of their friends and family all endured together in the time leading up to these moments. I was pleasantly surprised to see how much Spider-Man 2 builds on optional content as well, tying characters like Sandman and Wraith--whose development as villains was relegated to side missions or post-launch content in the previous games--into the main story in minor yet poignant ways. Spider-Man 2 goes a long way in reminding you that a huge contingent of Spidey's deadliest foes became who they were because they felt like they had no one else and so they turned to drastic measures to achieve their goals. And now, even when so many have managed to turn their lives around, they still face isolation due to the stigma of once being supervillains. In turn, the whole setup reinforces the tragic nature of the symbiote suit storyline, as we witness more than just Peter get pulled deeper into the hypnotic safety of the alien's companionship.
While Spider-Man 2's exploration of loneliness goes a long way in revitalizing Kraven, one of Spider-Man's oldest villains whom the wall-crawler has faced off against dozens of times across multiple forms of media, this narrative throughline more fundamentally transforms the game's second main antagonist, Venom, and makes him a far more compelling big bad. Though Kraven gets a good-but-not-great adjustment to his backstory that makes him a tad more somber of a villain (similar to the Tinkerer in Miles Morales), Venom goes complete Shakespearian tragedy. Long-time fans of Spider-Man mythos will recognize the steps to the dance as Peter first dons the black symbiote suit and undergoes a disturbing personality shift as it influences him but the game alters the symbiote's motivations, making it more akin to a toxic friend or partner, culminating in a Venom that's also a character motivated by a desire to not be alone. This tweak to Venom's backstory heightens the tension between Peter, Miles, and their allies as Spider-Man 2 goes into its final act, swinging toward a finale that's simultaneously epic and heart-wrenching. Spidey fans are in for a treat with this story.
The visual presentation sells the storyline with the facial mocap of Spider-Man 2 making leaps and bounds to put it far ahead of the last two Spidey games. So much of each conversation is conveyed through just barely discernible microexpressions, bringing each character to life as they grapple with the ramifications of their actions and feelings. Spider-Man 2 is a beautiful game. And while most of that compliment is aimed at the character models and their movements in cutscenes, the game's portrayal of New York City is also something to behold. The windows of skyscrapers dazzle in the sunlight as you swing by and vibrant art adds a colorful flair to certain street corners and buildings. If you slow down and walk along the streets, the illusion of the city begins to fall apart amongst the simple-minded NPCs but while you're web-swinging through the air, the mixed cacophony of traffic, gentle hum of lively crowds, and occasional rumble of the passing subway breathe a convincing life into New York.
When you're not facing off against Kraven and Venom, you'll be rushing all over to protect that city, and, boy, there's a whole lot of it. Insomniac has drastically increased the size of New York City by adding the boroughs of Queens and Brooklyn. Neither borough adds much to the map beyond more space to explore, though Queens at least poses the challenge of web-swinging through a space without much in the way of skyscrapers. Brooklyn doesn't even do that much--it's aesthetically distinct from the other boroughs but your time spent there is no different than almost anywhere else in the city. It's one of those situations where I don't think "more" actually means "better." Is there more of the city to see? Yes. But if the enemies you fight there are the same as everywhere else, if you're web-swinging through the area just as effectively as everywhere else, and if the story and side missions are designed just as they are everywhere else, then why even add the boroughs? The larger size does not add anything beyond space and, in some respects, actively worsens the flow of web-swinging as the bifurcated design of New York City means (prior to unlocking Fast Travel) you have to cross a large expanse of water with little to attach your webs to. It keeps the city from feeling as interconnected as it did in the first two games and frustratingly funnels you into solely relying on Peter and Miles' new wingsuit to make your way across.
Now, I like the wingsuit. It's a fun new tool in Peter and Miles' repertoire but it works the best as an augment to the Spider-Men's web-swinging, not a replacement for it. And though you can swing along the bridges that connect the different parts of the city, the game heavily incentivizes you to rely on the wingsuit to cross the ocean, with the longest wind tunnels crossing over the body of water. There's no clear way to experiment and adapt and get better at navigating Peter and Miles' trips across the water like the rest of the city, removing a lot of the fun that comes with getting better at web-swinging across the map. There's no way to get better at sitting in a wind tunnel and riding it from one end to another.
These issues with the wingsuit aside, web-swinging as a whole is vastly improved in Spider-Man 2, with a slew of new navigational abilities adding to the ways you can traverse the rooftops of the city. The slingshot is my absolute favorite--I've always loved seeing Spider-Man stretch out his webs to fling himself through the air in other media and Spider-Man 2 perfectly emulates the slow build-up and explosive release of the move. Web-swinging is faster this time around as well, with Peter and Miles able to propel themselves at breakneck speeds once you build up the momentum, injecting an element of strategy to movement that rewards well-timed swings, flips, and dives with acrobatic displays of exhilarating speed and skill.
Spider-Man 2 introduces some new elements in combat too. The biggest addition is a parry mechanic, allowing Peter and Miles to deflect heavy-hitting attacks and stun enemies. Though this skill feels somewhat immaterial in most fights against normal foes--because even when faced with an attack that can't be dodged and must be parried, you can still usually just dodge it by web-zipping away to another target--the parry mechanic changes the flow of combat in boss battles when you're up against one big foe who can sometimes prove to be resistant or outright immune to your webbing, forcing you to find alternative means of stunning them long enough to deal damage. In most of these cases, the bosses will attack the Spider-Men with several hard-hitting strikes in a row, encouraging you to parry multiple times in an effort to stun them. This further heightens the importance of timing in the dance-like flow of Spider-Man 2's combat, upping the challenge and the sense of danger against these targets. One mistimed parry or dodge can spell disaster, especially on the higher difficulties where bosses hit like a freight train, making mastering the timing of Peter and Miles' parry the best way to win.
Beyond the parry, Peter and Miles fight largely how they did in previous games. Punches connect with impact and stringing your strikes together while carefully avoiding enemy attacks allows you to build enough focus to either heal or deliver an instant hard-hitting takedown. Web-zipping, uppercuts, and jumps allow you to take to the air, where you can juggle enemies with ease. If you've played either of the first two games you already know what you're in for and I slid back into the rhythm of combat with ease. Both Spider-Men feel suitably acrobatic and swift, relying on speed to overwhelm foes. Though both Peter and Miles handle the same, Spider-Man 2 gives them both distinct rechargeable abilities, keeping combat feeling fresh as you switch between Miles' venom shock and invisibility powers and Peter's Doc Ock-inspired robotic spider legs and symbiote abilities. Even the way they move during combat (and web-swinging) is different, with Peter hitting with more practiced movements while Miles lunges with graceful finesse.
Spider-Man 2 misses an opportunity to make the two Spider-Men even more distinct, however. Early into the game, Peter and Miles face off against Sandman, discovering that Miles's venom shock powers burn hot enough to turn Flint Marko's sand-created minions into instant glass. It changes how the fight continues as you switch between the two--while Peter has to rely on sources of water in the environment to take out groups of Marko's sandmen, Miles can more creatively take them out by bunching them up and unleashing the lightning. When I played through that moment, I thought that was so cool and figured Spider-Man 2 would continue to build on the different expertise and abilities of its two protagonists, creating situations where a battle could play out quite differently depending on who you were playing as. That really never happens again, though. Though you do fight more of Marko's sandmen in one of Spider-Man 2's sidequests, no other enemy type in the game presents unique opportunities for the Spider-Men to handle them differently. It's just this incredible idea that the game introduces and then never revisits, informing the player that Peter and Miles could have been made to handle the same threats in different ways, but ultimately aren't given the opportunity to.
Such a distinction could have gone a long way toward further reinforcing Peter and Miles' evolving relationship and different philosophies when it comes to being Spider-Man. Previously mentor and mentee, Peter and Miles' relationship approaches equilibrium over the course of Spider-Man 2 as Miles fully comes into his own and develops a unique ideology of what it means to be Spider-Man. Both men have compelling narrative arcs but Miles is the standout in Spider-Man 2, allowing him to step up and be the hero that New York needs as Peter grapples with the symbiote's influence. I have no doubt that we'll see another Spider-Man game from Insomniac but there's a fulfilling sense of finality to Peter and Miles' story in Spider-Man 2 as we see Miles take the reigns of responsibility, not because he has to, like in Miles Morales when Peter went on vacation, but because he wants to. Peter's story has long been about a young man becoming a superhero out of obligation to a dead loved one, and while that narrative element exists in Miles' backstory too, in Spider-Man 2 we get to see how Miles moves beyond that to become a hero who fights for the responsibility he feels he owes to both his and others' futures--regardless if they're friend or foe. It's an exciting development for the character that made me more keenly appreciate playing as Miles over Peter, although their brotherly dynamic as a whole benefits.
Additionally, like the first game, Spider-Man 2's story sees you occasionally play as Mary Jane. These moments also lean away from the combat loop to curate a more puzzle-focused approach to combat where someone without spider superpowers has to rely completely on intellect to progress. These moments are used to especially great effect in the latter half of Spider-Man 2's story, which dips its toes into horror to up the tension of certain scenes. These moments also flow a lot better and get you back into the superhero tights faster than the first game as Mary Jane's arsenal has been smartly upgraded, allowing you to take the initiative as you sneak past guards and have a chance to respond if you're discovered. No more waiting around for a guard to slowly walk by or accidentally taking a wrong step and suffering through an annoyingly immediate failure state.
Spider-Man 2 is full of delightful side quests that each tell their own compelling vignettes, exploring themes from the main storyline through the lens of minor characters. Most of these side quests are reimaginings of what worked in the previous games. Miles' attempts to help a reformed villain debug their new start-up are Screwball's challenges in a spookier aesthetic, for example, while the Spider-Men's high-speed chases with Kraven's hawk-like hunter drones are a significantly more frenetic take on Taskmaster's drone challenges. Every side mission and collectible incorporates memorable characters from across the Spider-Man mythos, with each ending in a narratively fulfilling way that will make you gasp in excitement for what could become a potential DLC or a sequel.
There's good reason to see and do everything in Spider-Man 2, and the game goes a long way toward helping you naturally uncover all of it. The map is still there for those who want or need it but landmarks and clear visual cues in the world highlight where everything is at a glance, inviting you to explore New York without ever having to open your map. Spider-Bot collectibles pulse when you approach them, for example, and hunter drones circle around the skyscrapers that hide the terminals you need to hack into to kick off a chase.
Most of the side missions that dot that large map are excellent. The one big caveat is the assortment of EMF assignments that sees Peter work with scientists to improve the quality of their products, fulfilling mundane tasks by completing puzzles, zapping holographic bees with a drone, or riding a bike through the park. They're all tedious and boring--I get that Peter is a scientist but the insistence on including small minigames to incorporate that history into the gameplay is as irksome in this game as it was in the first. Spider-Man 2 graciously allows you to outright skip some of these at the push of a button, but not all of them and they're such a drag to complete.
You could argue that these puzzle-oriented side quests are meant to slow down the pacing of the game and break up the punching and web-swinging in the main storyline so as to prevent Spider-Man 2 from growing monotonous. But the main story does a wonderful job of that already, incorporating missions that prioritize stealth to transform a combat sequence into a puzzle where Peter or Miles have to figure out who to take out and when, and, as mentioned before, the moments where you play as Mary Jane are also already wonderful breaks from the action. Of all the side quests, the EMF missions have the weakest narrative payoff as well, meaning there's not much incentive to do them beyond grabbing the corresponding Trophy.
All in all, Marvel's Spider-Man 2 may largely give us more of what we've played in Insomniac's previous Spider-Man games, but that winning formula is still so damn fun that it really doesn't matter. The story's exploration of loneliness is fantastic, creating gripping new narratives for the two heroes, Peter and Miles, as well as the two main villains, Kraven and Venom. Spider-Man 2 unites all four characters in a riveting narrative throughline you'll want to see all the way through and has the gameplay hooks to keep you engaged the whole ride.
There are a lot of elements that might be said to define Souls-like games, but high on the list has to be the genre’s particular approach to pacing. As a group of action-RPGs, they’re defined first by periods of growing, ratcheting tension. You fight through long areas filled with tough enemies, with each one dropping "souls" that you can spend to level up your character, which you risk losing if you die before you reach a safe place where you're able to spend them.
Following the build of tension is the release, when you finally make it to the safety of a checkpoint, stopping to refill your health, enhance your character, and catch your breath before setting out into danger again. You're constantly making the same difficult decision: Do you risk going forward for greater rewards, or return to safety and grow your strength, knowing you'll have to fight through all the dangers you just faced once again?
Though Lords of the Fallen ticks off many items from the list of things that Souls-like games are known for, it's the ebb-and-flow pacing, or rather the lack of it, that vexes the most. There's a combination of elements at play--the game's meandering level design, the spongy enemies you face as you progress, the uneven checkpoint and death systems--that creates a series of long and frustrating slogs. Lords of the Fallen is a game that has all the right Souls-like elements on-hand, but never quite gets the proportions right.
The main element that sets Lords of the Fallen apart is the Umbral realm, an alternate dimension that sits on top of the world you see as you play through the game. As a Dark Crusader adventuring across the world in hopes of stopping the return of an evil god, you have the unique capability of interacting with and even entering the Umbral. And it's through the Umbral that you can actually cheat death--when you take too much damage, you're knocked into the Umbral dimension rather than killed outright, giving you a second chance to heal and survive.

Often a dead end, large gap, or blocked path can be negotiated by entering the Umbral, where platforms or ladders that don't appear in the real world might exist, so venturing between the two worlds is a major focus. Accessing that alternate dimension is done with your Umbral Lamp, which you'll use in both exploration and combat. You can use the lamp to zap yourself straight into the Umbral proper (but not back to the real world; that's done with special corpses you'll have to seek out), or just raise it to get a glimpse at what's ahead in the alternate dimension.
When you gaze into the Umbral, however, it gazes back. It's filled with monsters who are normally not part of your reality, but who materialize and threaten you within the Umbral (or if you hold the veil open too long with your lamp). In fact, the longer you spend there, the more dangerous it becomes. Enemies hunt you, appearing in front and behind at intervals, with their numbers increasing over time. You're also uniquely vulnerable in the Umbral because you can be fully killed, which sends you back to the last checkpoint, or "vestige," you visited. What's more, while you're in the real world, enemies in the Umbral are invisible and can't interact with you. But while you're in the Umbral, the creatures of the real world can still see you--and hurt you.
The Umbral is a frightening place where even the walls and ground are alive and pulsating, and hungry creatures stalk your every move. The Umbral helps to make Lords of the Fallen feel enormous and alive in an eerie way, while providing some inventive opportunities for navigation and puzzle-solving at key moments. As an addition to the usual Souls-like formula, the Umbral is a great idea. It can help you survive a mortal blow, but once you're forcibly thrown into it, the dangers you face only increase, and you're hunted as long as you're there.
However, in practice, the Umbral only adds to Lords of the Fallen's underlying issues. It contributes to throwing off the pacing of exploring the game's world and adds to, rather than alleviates, frustrations in combat.

The most egregious pacing issue is in the level design. The game takes you through a variety of dark fantasy locales that are all suitably ravaged and horrific, and when paired with frequent leaps into the Umbral, they create a frightening place to explore. But while Lords of the Fallen's locations are long on atmosphere, they're also sprawling and twisting in a way that makes them painful to navigate.
The primary problem is the checkpoint system. As in other Souls-likes, every so often in Lords of the Fallen, you'll come across a vestige. Here, you can level up, fast travel to other vestiges, and rest, which refills your health and the healing charges in your Sanguinatrix (read: Estus Flask), while also respawning all the enemies in the area.
Vestiges you find in the world are permanent, but they're few and far between. However, you can also create your own checkpoints at specific places by placing an item called an Umbral Seed in a flower bed found in the Umbral.
As an idea, the Umbral Seeds sound like a potential improvement on the usual Souls-like approach to checkpoints, but they're actually a mess. Seeds are rare, mostly coming from defeating bosses, and if you don't have one, you can't create a checkpoint.

Couple this lack of checkpoints with levels that pile tough enemies together in rapid succession and it’s a recipe for frustration. Many times, when you enter a new area, you'll jump into a mini-boss fight against an enemy that's not quite as tough as Lords of the Fallen's main bosses, but tough enough. Soon after you defeat these enemies, you'll start seeing them in levels as regular enemies.
The thing is, Lords of the Fallen has a tendency to reward killing a big former-boss enemy with another one just ahead. And another one after that. And another after that. Stacking enemies like these in a row means long, slow fight after long, slow fight, where a mistake or two means death--and that means redoing all those other long, slow fights.
Now throw in extensive side paths, Umbral detours, and shortcuts that take you into cul-de-sacs in every level, often without you realizing it. These areas are just as dangerous as the main pathway and look just as important, but mostly just hand out weapons and armor. On numerous occasions, I lost hours in Lords of the Fallen to side areas that didn't matter, full of battles that weren't necessary, usually rewarding me with weapons my character stats couldn't handle.
Some Umbral flower beds are placed in extremely inopportune spots, as well. There are flower beds left in the middle of groups of enemies, for example, so that if you use a seed, you'll wake up surrounded by adversaries; but you also don't know how long it'll be until the next bed. Sometimes you'll find a flower bed just before a room filled with difficult enemies, and then another bed on the other side, so that you might feel like you wasted your seed on the weaker position. What's more, you can only have one seed planted at a time, forcing you to sacrifice your old checkpoint for a new one--so you better hope you're picking a place that's actually useful.

It's possible to buy more Vestige Seeds from an Umbral vendor in the main hub area, but they're not exactly cheap, so this is a running tax on currency you would otherwise spend on leveling up. I made sure I always had seeds on-hand after too many instances of losing huge amounts of progress to the lack of a checkpoint.
Lords of the Fallen's levels are so full of irritating, lengthy fights, with so few rewards in the form of safe places for a breather, that at some point I started just sprinting past whole hordes of enemies. It's generally quicker, easier, and less tedious to just run for it, even in new areas, and blow past a bunch of arduous and time-consuming minor battles to try to find a flower bed and skip them altogether. There's no increasing tension followed by sweet relief in Lords of the Fallen: just a series of slogs. The messy checkpoints and confusing level design undercut what fun there might have been in exploring the beautiful world of Lords of the Fallen, and it receives few additional favors from its combat.
As with other Souls-likes, Lords of the Fallen focuses on players doing slow, heavy attacks, blocking incoming strikes with shields, and slipping past blows with a dedicated dodge move. In most ways, the combat feels pretty standard to the genre, and Lords of the Fallen is at its best when it's putting you through battles against interesting and weird boss enemies who tend to oscillate between towering corrupted knights and twisted demonic monsters. And yet pacing issues persist even in the combat, as every battle, from skirmishes with the game's common foes to titanic clashes with its best bosses, seems to take forever.
There's a bit of a joke in the souls community that if you're having trouble with a boss, try dodging left--often it's a simple way to slip under attacks and can turn seemingly impossible battles into trivial tangles. In Lords of the Fallen, you don't even need to dodge left if you dodge at all. The dodging system is incredibly forgiving, providing you a ton of invincibility frames within the animation to avoid all damage from an attack, often even if you dodge late or poorly. Generally, dodging is so effective that there's rarely any need to use the game's blocking or parrying systems. Dodge left, attack, win fight.

With dodging so incredibly forgiving, it's pretty easy to get the sense of a fight, even against a tough boss, after a few tries. But Souls-likes are supposed to be difficult, right? You can't just steam-roll a boss by slipping past every single attack and laying into them during the openings. These things are supposed to challenge players, to give them a sense of accomplishment--to take many tries.
You can see where the issue develops. To compensate for the extremely generous (and, it must be noted, extremely fun to use) dodge, Lords of the Fallen puts the brakes on the speed with which you can take an enemy down. Sure, you can slip past four or five swings and get in an attack or two when there's an opening, but it feels like the health pool on every enemy, and especially bosses, is massive. So your one or two hits, especially with lighter, one-handed weapons, feel about as effective as whipping rocks at a T-Rex.
This is why running past huge groups of enemies in search of a checkpoint becomes the go-to strategy. When you run into an enemy you previously faced as a boss, you know not only is that thing going to hit you really hard if you screw up dodging its attacks, but that you're going to have to plink away at it for a really long time. That'd be fine if Lords was throwing one or two of these fights at you and then rewarding you with a rest or a shortcut back to an earlier position so you can skip those fights in the future, but it doesn't. Instead, you're rewarded with fight after fight that moves like mud.
Boss fights suffer from this pace-killer as well, because they overcompensate for your ridiculous dodge ability by dragging things out until you make a mistake. There are some really impressive bosses in Lords of the Fallen, many of which have great move sets and provide real challenges. But they all last well beyond excitement and into frustration because every one of them continues to test you long after you feel like you've achieved mastery of the situation, simply because they take forever to kill. Lords of the Fallen boss fights start to feel like Groundhog Day loops, where you know every move before it happens, but you're still stuck there.

There's a parry system in Lords of the Fallen as well, but the way it works, coupled with the efficacy of the dodge, means it's often best to ignore it. On paper, parrying is a worthwhile system with great effects. Perfectly timing your blocks lowers an enemy's "posture," marked by a small meter that appears near their health, and once it's emptied, you get a chance to perform a big Grievous attack, much like a Dark Souls riposte or Bloodborne Visceral attack. Regular attacks and charged attacks also lower posture, just like the parry systems in Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice or Lies of P, so this is something you want to be looking for opportunities to do in fights. Or it would be, until you realize it's not nearly worth the risk.
The penalty for blocking anything, even with a perfect parry, is that you suffer from "withered health," which turns a chunk of your health bar gray. Withered health is another cool-sounding system on paper, playing like Bloodborne's rally system or Lies of P's guard health system. You can get your withered health back as regular health for landing strikes on enemies, but if you take a hit, you lose all your withered health, plus the regular health you would have lost normally. So blocking and parrying can help you tank a hit, but also build up a health debt that forces you to be extra careful.
The trouble is that the rewards never make the risks of the withered health system worth it. Usually, blocking an attack just leads you into getting hit by the next one, costing you the withered health and more. The timing required for dodging is hugely more forgiving than that required for parrying and comes with no penalty, so standing your ground is only necessary in a few edge cases.
And this is where the good idea of that second chance of landing in the Umbral upon death loses its luster as well. When you travel into the Umbral, you get your health back, but half of it is withered, so you immediately have to start fighting to get back up to full strength. Any healing you do in the Umbral is less effective as well, with some of it being withered. Okay, sure, fine ideas, providing you a second chance on death but making the situation more risky--except the Umbral has more enemies than the real world and they spawn in around you over time. Often, a bad situation just gets worse when you wind up in the Umbral because the number of foes you're facing gets compounded.

So now you're dealing with the thing that killed you, plus more enemies, and they all take a bunch of hits to kill, and you're losing any health that's withered on top of whatever a regular hit would cost you, with less room to maneuver because the enemy density is higher. That Umbral second chance is now more like an Umbral gang beating. And that's if the enemy who killed you doesn't just immediately slay you as soon as you stand up, slapping away your worthless withered health along with the rest of your real health.
There are a lot of potentially cool things about Lords of the Fallen. Its world is vast and beautiful, with a story of a series of religious zealots falling to corruption and ambiguous characters making you wonder if what's defined by orthodoxy as evil is really so bad. The Umbral dimension itself is an excellent addition that makes every location creepier and more interesting than it otherwise would be. And combat can be fun, especially against the game's most imaginative and challenging bosses.
But the game just can't get the proportions right. The fun of risk-and-reward gameplay comes from actually earning the rewards; if the rewards aren't good enough, or if the risk is too heavy, the fun turns to frustration. For all of Lords of Fallen's good ideas, it struggles to make the payoff worthy of the investment. Its meandering level design and slogging encounters turn challenge into tedium, leaving a feeling that getting up and doing something else would be time better spent.
This all begins with the game's visuals, which successfully emulate Mike Mignola's art style in stunning cel-shaded 3D. It's so faithful to the original comics, in fact, that each frame could be a panel in itself. Striking colors contrast against deep black shadows, where characters and environments appear as though they've been boldly sculpted by thickly painted outlines, achieving the comic book's signature look. When squaring up against a salivating werewolf, it's as if Hellboy's battle with William Grenier in The Wolves of Saint August has leapt off the page. Every moment of Web of Wyrd is a Mignola art piece brought to life, and it's evident Upstream Arcade has a lot of reverence for the source material--a feeling that also extends to the rest of the game.
Take Web of Wyrd's roguelite structure as an example--a decision informed by Hellboy's near-invulnerability. It takes an awful lot to kill Hellboy, so when your health reaches zero, rather than dying and resetting at the start of the game for some contrived reason, this snaps the tether connecting you to the Wyrd, sending Hellboy hurtling back into the real world. The Wyrd is a nightmarish dimension that can only be accessed via the mysterious Butterfly House. When this titular dimension starts impacting our reality in locations across the globe, Hellboy and the Bureau for Paranormal Research and Defence utilize the Butterfly House as a staging ground before embarking on missions within the procedurally generated realms of the Wyrd. From this outpost, you're able to talk to other B.P.R.D. agents, gear up for your next descent, and spend resources on various upgrades to either improve your equipment or Hellboy's physical attributes.
So far this is all par for the course when it comes to your usual roguelite. Web of Wyrd is decidedly unusual, though, which quickly becomes clear within the game's first couple of hours. Instead of being tasked with completing the whole game in a single run--after many deaths and upgrades--it's actually split into distinct chapters that break up the traditional roguelite formula. The Wryd is separated into five biomes, each one featuring a unique aesthetic and assortment of deadly creatures, which prevents the journey from becoming stale. The first biome's ancient ruins are home to armored knights wielding swords and shields, for instance, while a sunken city is beset by all manner of amphibious monstrosities. Not only do these enemy types look vastly different from one another, but their disparate attack patterns present a constant and rewarding challenge.
Initially, your goal is to delve into each biome one by one and kill the boss within. Once all five have been defeated, you have to venture back into each biome, defeat each boss again, and then journey a tad farther to destroy a structure guarded by three waves of enemies. When you've completed this step, you're challenged with repeating this process--minus overcoming the bosses again--only this time, instead of traveling to each biome one by one, you have to hit them all in a single run.
On their own, none of these scenarios are unique, but by gradually building to the final, prolonged run with smaller, bite-sized missions, it freshens up the roguelite formula to create a sense of progression that exists beyond just upgrading your character. This is vital, too, because Web of Wyrd's gameplay loop consists of very few parts. Outside of combat, which eats up the bulk of your time, you're essentially just running down corridors from one combat arena to the next. Traversal is mind-numbingly shallow, so the onus is on the game's action to carry the load.
Fortunately, it's up to the task. Web of Wyrd's hand-to-hand combat emphasizes considered play by leaning into Hellboy's bulky frame and powerful Right Hand of Doom. There's palpable heft behind each crunching blow that's inherently satisfying, and the scarcity of healing options makes every encounter fraught with peril. The camera does run into issues when you're fighting near walls, sometimes blocking your view, and it's frustrating that there isn't an indicator for attacks coming from off-screen. Still, the main challenge comes from being able to learn each enemy's attacks and then recognize what's coming. Web of Wyrd is comparable to a game like For Honor in this regard, as the only way to avoid incoming blows is by evading in the right direction, whether you're weaving to the left or right, backing away, or ducking underneath an incoming sword swipe. Additionally, last-second dodges are rewarded with a slow-motion flourish, allowing you to hit back with a counter attack that deals extra stun damage.
Once you've broken through an enemy's Toughness meter--a kind of posture bar--Hellboy's handy pistol can inflict the same stun damage, eventually leaving enemies wide open for a devastating heavy attack. You can aim these strikes, too, sending your hapless foe careening into a wall or rickety pillar to deal extra damage. If you don't fancy the pistol, you can opt to equip either a shotgun or grenade launcher. These are reserved for heavy attacks and, much like the pistol, are to be used sparingly due to their lengthy reload animations. Environmental elements like rubble can also be thrown at enemies, and you're able to enter battle with one of three cooldown-limited charms equipped, letting you repel enemies with a shockwave or create a barrier that negates the next incoming attack.
Blocking mitigates damage but doesn't prevent it outright, yet blocking at the last possible moment nullifies more damage than usual and also builds up Hellboy's Payback meter. Once this is full, you're able to unleash a Payback Finisher, launching into a cinematic combo that inflicts oodles of pain. Each time you return to the Butterfly House you can spend any currency you've accrued on various upgrades. All of the weapons and charms in your arsenal can be improved multiple times, and you can bump up Hellboy's Toughness and health or gain the ability to survive fatal damage during a run.
When inside the Wyrd, you'll also attain different modifiers called Blessings. These power-ups vary from providing you with a health boost to applying a freeze effect to your fists that occasionally locks enemies in place. Blessings are useful, but they never feel essential and don't alter combat in a significant way. You still fight with the same moveset and cadence, only now your pistol might afflict enemies with a status effect that makes them suffer extra environmental damage. The same is true of both weapons and charms, so build variety is practically non-existent. This is a problem in an 11-hour game, yet combat is demanding enough to remain consistently engaging. Tedium can creep in at times when roaming the same biome multiple times in a row, but going mano-e-mano with a 10-foot-tall vampire bat and pounding it into dust with weighty, tactile strikes remains thrilling until the credits roll.
There is a story tying all of this together, predominantly told by speaking to the various NPCs spread throughout the Butterfly House. This alludes to Web of Wyrd taking a similar approach to Hades, but these conversations usually have little substance. The late Lance Reddick is unsurprisingly excellent as Hellboy, infusing the character with a different vibe compared to Ron Perlman, but he also doesn't have much to work with. The story isn't bad; it's just unimaginative and predictable to the point where it just sort of exists in the periphery.
While the narrative is disappointing, Hellboy: Web of Wyrd's recreation of Mike Mignola's signature art style is mightily impressive, while its twist on the usual roguelite structure establishes a potent sense of progression that drives the journey forward. Its punchy and calculated combat is forced to carry the load of what is otherwise a fairly barebones experience, and it falters here at times, too, with a dodgy camera and lack of variation outside of its multitude of enemy types. Yet it's also the challenging toe-to-toe action that makes Web of Wyrd worth playing. Donning the crown (of the apocalypse) as the best Hellboy game ever made might not sound like an extraordinary achievement, but this is a character that has been starved of games, let alone good ones. Web of Wyrd is exactly that, which is maybe enough.
Forza Motorsport is nearly as old as the Xbox brand itself, but it's had a surprisingly extended absence since its last entry in 2017. In its place, the less simulation-focused, open-world Forza Horizon series has flourished, despite not offering the technical track racing that the core series of the franchise once excelled in delivering. Forza Motorsport is a reset of sorts for the series, with the time away from the track used to refine its scintillating racing and fine-tune its progression system. The result is a streamlined simulation racer that puts all of its focus toward on-track action, delivering one of the most exhilarating racing experiences you can find on any platform.
Forza Motorsport wastes no time getting you on the track, throwing you behind the wheel of its cover car, the 2024 Corvette E-Ray, on the tarmac of the Maple Valley Raceway, a throwback to the series' oldest fictional track. This short showcase, somewhat similar in presentation (but not tone) to the openings found in Forza Horizon, makes it immediately clear how much work has been put into Forza Motorsport's visuals. The golden sunset lighting and autumnal colors around the track contrast beautifully against the glinting blue metal of the roaring hypercar at your fingertips, with the subsequent race at a cherry-blossom-laden track in Japan showcasing gorgeous nighttime lighting as dozens of polished liveries careen around corners. Each one of Forza Motorsport's faithfully recreated cars is a treat to behold when out on the track, while equally standing up to scrutiny when you take the time to investigate their intricately recreated interiors. If you obsess over the finer details of exceptional automotive engineering, Forza Motorsport raises the bar for what you will now expect from other games in this genre.
Both in the showroom and on the track, Forza Motorsport is accentuated by an attractive implementation of ray tracing, which is even featured in one of the game's performance modes to mitigate any feelings of compromise to enjoy the game looking its finest. While it's difficult to appreciate accurate reflections at breakneck speeds, the collective effect helps to ground each car to the track in a way that makes previous iterations seem a bit strange by comparison. It's not a faultless implementation--there were numerous instances in rain-soaked conditions where reflections would routinely break when ray tracing was enabled--but there's no question it's a transformative change that elevates Forza Motorsport's presentation to new visually pleasing heights.
At the heart of Forza Motorsport is a revamped career mode that pulls in elements from older entries in the series and blends it with a new set of mechanics designed to establish a deeper bond between you and your selected cars. The Builder's Cup is a collection of championships with theme-specific events and distinct showcase events. Each one celebrates the beauty of the automotive industry through the lens of its theme, limiting your choice of vehicle based on a specific time period, a collection of region-specific manufacturers, or a particular class of consumer car. Each event (typically made up of a handful of races) usually requires a new car, either from your existing collection or from the selection of over 500 that you can purchase throughout your time with Forza Motorsport. Bouncing between new vehicles not only gives you the familiar, rewarding sensation of learning the limits of a new, speedy machine, but it also now lets you customize each car based on the amount of time you spend with it.
Every action you make with a selected car in an event contributes towards its own level, with developer Turn 10 layering a light role-playing system of sorts on top of traditional progression. As your car levels up, you unlock new categories for upgrades, letting you spend accrued "Car Points" to install upgrades that affect characteristics such as top speed, acceleration, handling, and more. The total number of points you have to spend is also determined by how much you use a particular vehicle, and can also be recouped at any point if you want to take your tuning in an entirely different direction. The interface for this critical part of your progression through Forza Motorsport is wonderfully designed, giving you a clear view of how your current choices will impact your car while carefully reminding you about the importance of a balance. Easier still is the ability to have all of these upgrades applied automatically in-between races, with the system doing a remarkably good job at finding a pleasing configuration. This customization is crucial not only in the Builder's Cup, but eventually in your multiplayer racing career, too, with all your changes carrying through to the more challenging online events to really cement the rewarding nature of the new changes.
The style of progression revitalizes the most basic principles of simulation racing. The reward of shaving off a few tenths of a second on a lap time might still be rewarding enough for most players, but having that coupled with the tangible reward of new parts for your vehicle, and hence the opportunity to post even faster lap times, creates an engrossing feedback loop that is difficult to pull away from. Practice sessions before races are no longer just about learning a track layout; they're critical interludes between competitive events that let you learn more about your car while improving its capabilities for the next race. As you race through each sector, you'll be rewarded with XP for how well you complete it, handily indicated by a score out of 10 that pushes you to make the best of every single corner. Some act as miniature time-trials too, letting you gauge your performance lap after lap and revel in the perfect one once you've linked each sector up perfectly. These are all facets of simulation racing that have been at the core of why enthusiasts have loved this genre, but it's refreshing to see Forza Motorsport contextualize it in a way that will make it just as engaging to an entirely new crowd of players.
Individually progressing each new car you purchase also allows you to build a distinct relationship with each one, given that the characteristics between a consumer hatchback and luxury sports car require you to approach them differently. Each car you purchase is completely stock the first time you experience it on track, before quickly turning into a precise weapon you can use to attack each apex after customizing it to your liking. This evolution isn't a laborious one, with the generous amounts of experience that actions reward you with letting you make a significant change to each new car in just a handful of races, so it doesn't make the required hopping between new vehicles a slog. Instead, it allows you to be frequently reminded of the rush that accompanies the moment when a car starts clicking with you, giving you the confidence to push it to its limits and whip around circuits miles faster than you were just a few races ago.
This streamlined system of upgrading your car doesn't come at the expense of the nitty-gritty options that you might expect from a simulation racer either. Beyond the selection of parts, you're able to fine-tune the most minute details of each vehicle to the same degree as before, switching up anything from your brake bias to gear ratios and more. These, as they have been before, are squarely suited to those with an in-depth knowledge of cars and how the smallest changes can have a big impact on the track with the right driver behind the wheel. With Forza Motorsport's varied options for difficulty, there's opportunity to make these settings vital if you're planning on playing with most driving assists off and pitting yourself against the highest level of AI drivers, nevermind potentially faster opponents online.
Outside of the Builder's Cup, Forza Motorsport features several series-standard modes. There's a free-race option, where you can set up a race with some quick presets or dive deep into a customizer and create an event with incredible detail, from the different types of weather that can occur during the race and how fast the day/night cycle takes place, to how much rubber has already been laid down on the racing line to determine grip. Cars that you've purchased can all be used here, too, which gives you another chance to increase their respective levels, but you can also choose to rent a car (and accrue no XP for it) for no fee, which is a nice touch if you're just looking for a quick test drive.

Competitive multiplayer in Forza Motorsport is largely consolidated in Featured Multiplayer, which packages up lobbies into real-time race weekends. Each event unfolds simultaneously across the globe, indicating how much time you have left to enter before the feature race kicks off. The more time you have before that happens, however, the better, as two pre-race sessions will have a massive impact on your overall performance in the race. The first is an unlimited practice session where you can tackle the course you'll be racing and inspect other player times to get a good sense of where in the pack you might settle into. Qualifying puts that practice to the test, giving you just three laps to set your fastest time and determine your starting position on the grid. The feature race is where the time you spent prior is put to use against everyone else in the lobby, resulting in exhilarating and highly competitive sprints to the finish with a collection of players far more versed with the course in front of them than if just dropped into a race from the start.

That doesn't mean that race-altering collisions don't occur anymore, but Forza Motorsport is quite heavy-handed in its approach to in-race penalties. Colliding with other players unnecessarily will summon a penalty calculator that does a relatively good job of dishing out a time penalty proportionate to the impact cause, both to the other car in question and their new position in the race. Other infringements, such as cutting corners, are also penalized, with a nice tabulated view of all racers and their pending time penalties shown during a race to keep you in the loop. Sometimes the in-race penalty isn't enough which is where an overall player safety rating comes into effect. This value rises and falls based on your ability (or inability) to race cleanly, and determines matchmaking with other players based on that. Frequent collision offenders will eventually find themselves in lobbies with other similarly-behaved racers, letting frequently courteous ones enjoy the company of others more often.

Multiplayer events are also varied by the category they're found in, specifically Spec Racing or Open Racing. Spec racing features events where everyone is given the same car to race, leveling the playing field and letting raw skill determine a victor. Open Racing is almost the complete opposite; you're still confined to a certain class of vehicle, but which one you choose is entirely up to you, including whether or not you use previously upgraded vehicles from your collection. The multi-stage aspects and time-sensitive nature of multiplayer events leave a lasting impression, be that the satisfaction of a hard-fought win or the disappointment of a race weekend that went all wrong in the dying moments. The variety, coupled with the aforementioned Rivals mode, establishes a rich multiplayer foundation that can be enjoyed for a long time before developer Turn10 decides to expand upon it with new content.

With so much racing to undertake, it quickly becomes apparent that Forza Motorsport features a smaller number of tracks than you might expect. There are only 14 tracks, with 20 viable circuits when you take into account alternative layouts on some tracks. There are familiar standouts, such as racing around 130R at Suzuka in Japan, or scaling Eau Rouge with your foot flat on the gas in Spa, as well as new tracks like Kyalami in South Africa. But there's also a surprising lack of representation from whole regions, such as the Yas Marina Circuit in Abu Dhabi or one of the two Italian Formula 1 tracks. Forza Motorsport is being positioned as a platform that Turn 10 is planning to update over the future, but that doesn't change the fact that it has less than half of the circuits Forza Motorsport 7 eventually had.
Forza Motorsport has been gone for a long time, but it's evident that Turn 10 has used the time to reevaluate its formula and implement some striking changes that will likely ignite a new passion for simulation racing for petrolheads and bring in a swathe of new players. The inclusion of car-specific progression creates a stronger relationship between you and each car you own in your garage, with the methods of leveling each on up pushing you to hone your racing craft in the most rewarding way the series has delivered thus far. Forza Motorsport does this all without forgetting its heritage, delivering a standout simulation racing experience that looks and sounds stunning, while feeling reliably accurate and satisfying on the tarmac. It would be nice to have more locations to enjoy Forza Motorsport breadth of vehicular content on, but it would be a lie to say I didn't have a massive grin on my face during every lap that I completed.
Baldur's Gate 3 pushes player freedom to the absolute limit. That unparalleled level of freedom can be found in nearly every aspect of the game, from its character creation to combat, and after two full playthroughs and a dozen ongoing campaigns, I've still barely scratched the surface. No two experiences are alike, and every character I've created feels unique. While the game can't always keep up with the spontaneity of a real-life Dungeon Master, it manages to offer plenty of agency while also ensuring that its vast, web-like narrative is compelling from start to finish.
Baldur's Gate 3 begins in the belly of a Nautiloid, a Lovecraftian spaceship piloted by a squid-like race known as illithids. After you create your avatar and pick a class, you are infected with a parasite that slowly (and painfully) turns its host into a tentacle-adorned mind flayer. You and the other affected members of your party must find a way to remove the parasites before the transformation is complete. It's a wonderfully dark setup that allows Larian Studios to pull together an eclectic batch of characters with a wide array of beliefs, dispositions, and backgrounds and give them a common goal. These characters aren't adventuring together out of friendship (for the most part), but necessity. In many cases it's an uneasy allyship rife with internal drama and conflict.
Baldur's Gate 3 regularly puts its characters first, and it's better for it. While the narrative isn't all that interesting on its own and basically amounts to "purge the parasite and save the world," the diverse cast of characters makes it so much more memorable by creating an extra layer of nuance that grounds the entire experience with more personal stakes. Karlach is a hot-headed tiefling barbarian with a heart of gold, Astarion is a pompous and flamboyant rogue with just enough charm to win you over, and Lae'zel is a battle-hardened warrior that puts an interesting spin on the fish-out-of-water archetype. There are 10 potential party members in total, and each one is backed by sharp writing, impeccable acting, and spirited animations.
What's most impressive is how these characters react and grow to your decisions throughout the game. How you play your character factors into your relationship with your party. For example, Astarion can be sadistic and power-hungry, and you can either nurture those dark tendencies or deftly try to steer him away from them. This allows Astarion to act as a dramatic foil to a goody-two-shoes character or a sinister confidant to a more chaotic character. No matter how you choose to play your character, you will befriend some characters and make enemies with others, and if you clash with a party member too much they can abandon you altogether. This is part of what makes Baldur's Gate 3 feel so reactive. Although the story and the setup remains the same across various playthroughs, the party dynamics and character interactions continue to surprise on each subsequent playthrough.
What also keeps the characters and interactions fresh is the game's sense of humor. Baldur's Gate 3 is funny and, if you lean into the absurdity, it can be hilarious. The comedy works so well because it stems from your failed dice rolls, poor decisions, and unpredictable combat interactions. This means that these moments of levity feel unique to you and your party. Sure, there are some written into the script, like convincing a goblin to kiss your feet in Act 1, but the funniest moments feel accidental. For example, my character had a beautifully written heart-to-heart with Lae'zel as she came to appreciate a sunrise she once despised. However, I forgot to wash off some clown makeup I purchased at a circus, so the moment was somewhat undermined by my look.
These scenes and relationships are supported by an uncompromising presentation. For a game with so many variables, every conversation feels handcrafted thanks to the cinematic approach Larian Studios took with dialogue. Every line other than your own is fully voiced, characters are expressive, and the camera cuts seamlessly between the action. While this approach isn't novel, few games, if any, have done it to the scale of Baldur's Gate 3. Presentation isn't everything, but in the case of Baldur's Gate 3, it makes each playthrough, no matter how ridiculous, feel authored and intentional.
This impressive level of reactivity extends to combat. While combat is based on D&D's 5th edition ruleset, Larian Studios took some liberties to make it more approachable in a virtual setting. The result is a rich, layered combat system that plays out like a turn-based tactical RPG. Initially, every character has one action and one bonus action. Attacks and spells typically require an action while secondary skills like jumping or using an item require a bonus action. There are exceptions, but generally, most of your damage-dealing moves require an action. Combat itself is calculated through hidden dice rolls. Like D&D, this adds a bit of uncertainty to the equation.
Where Baldur's Gate 3 sets itself apart from other tactical RPGs, though, is how flexible its combat mechanics are. The game rarely, if ever, tells you "no," even in some of the more critical fights. In fact, the more you level up, the more absurd and unpredictable combat gets. For example, I turned a particularly challenging boss into a goat using a polymorph spell, and had our tiefling goddess Karlach kick him into an abyss. In Act 3, the friends I was playing with learned that the Hero's Feast spell makes the entire party immune to poison damage until the next long rest. This meant that our wizard could cast Cloudkill anywhere while our fighter and paladin-warlock could mop up the suffocating foes, all while ignoring the spell's deadly effects. Even something as simple as casting Haste and Action Surge on a level 11 fighter so they can attack nine times (10 if they have a bonus action attack) in one turn feels like bending the rules to execute a clever play that can dramatically shift the tide of battle, but the game encourages it.
The combat is so flexible, especially near the end, that a well-optimized party can obliterate even some of the toughest foes in the game. Yet even when the battles start to feel a bit too easy, they never become rote. Every spell interaction, environmental trap, or clever maneuver feels like a stroke of brilliance that only you and your party could have conjured up. During one fight, a handful of traps were spewing smoke powder bombs that would explode after a turn and send anyone in the blast radius flying. The obvious course of action would be to disable the traps or steer clear of the bombs. However, since the bombs didn't detonate immediately, I put down a Wall of Fire with my sorcerer, and the rest of my party members strategically hurled the timed bombs in order to launch my foes into the blaze. Was it efficient? Probably not. Was it effective? Absolutely. The fact that Baldur's Gate 3 allowed me to play around with all these variables and rewarded my ingenuity speaks to how much creativity the combat can enable.
Depending on your choices, every facet of Baldur's Gate 3 works in tandem to deliver a climactic third act. The story builds to a difficult final choice, key combat encounters are appropriately epic, and it all takes place in the dense city of Baldur's Gate. As good as the first two acts are, it really feels like Baldur's Gate 3 saves the best for last. The resolution of character arcs in particular really stands out. In my adventure, Karlach's story wrapped up with a bittersweet, heartfelt moment that almost brought me to tears. Meanwhile, I managed to "fix" Astarion's darker tendencies by unearthing some of his trauma. While different, both arcs felt equally satisfying and rewarding.
But your decisions can also lead to an anemic third act that lacks any emotional payoff whatsoever. In a very chaotic co-op campaign, my party and I killed and/or pissed off just about every important character. Your quest log still leads you to some of Act 3's key set pieces, but most of them felt bare without characters like Shadowheart and Astarion to ground the experience. It's a weird problem to have, because most games simply wouldn't let you kill off characters that are this integral to the story, but Baldur's Gate 3 lets you, and there are consequences. Is it Larian Studios' responsibility to ensure that every single quest, plotline, and character arc is satisfying if those characters are no longer around? I don't think so, and in the case of Baldur's Gate 3, that unapologetic player freedom is far more important to the overall experience. You reap what you sow, and sometimes what you sow is a sad and lonely conclusion.
If anything, that kind of outcome shows that the game's level of freedom extends beyond a solo adventure to co-op, where the variables are complicated further by having other human-controlled adventurers. Up to four players can create their own character and play through the entire campaign together. Surprisingly, the co-op is nearly identical to the single-player experience. It does have some quirks, but any player can push the story forward, make important decisions, and aggro NPCs without anyone else knowing. It's empowering (and a little terrifying) knowing that you could potentially sink an entire questline or character arc based on a decision you make that the rest of your party might miss.
In my co-op run I decided to play as the Dark Urge, a customizable pre-made character that has a penchant for murder. In order to properly role-play this character, I decided to choose all of the Dark Urge-specific dialogue options. This meant I bit off Gale's arm right from the get-go and we never saw him again; his entire questline and character arc evaporated quicker than my character could swallow his severed arm. In another instance, one of my party members was trying to de-escalate a tense situation between the druids of Emerald Grove and some tiefling refugees. As he was trying to calm everyone down, I got too close to their idol and aggroed the entire village. It was funny in the moment, but since we decided early on that we wouldn't save scum, this meant we failed an entire questline because I was a little too antsy.
Even if your party plays it straight, it can be difficult to track companion quests, especially with three or four active players. Sometimes only certain players can talk to specific party members, conversations are often repeated, and the game can't always track who said what to whom. To make things more difficult, if you do have a four-player campaign going, you may not be able to take party members along for their specific quests. Shadowheart, for example, abandoned our party because we didn't have room for her during a pivotal moment of her arc. There are ways around this, such as choosing an origin character at the beginning of the campaign or by swapping party members on the fly. However, choosing an origin character limits your customization options, and swapping party members on the fly only works with a group of two or three players.
By the time my party had made it to the third act, Shadowheart had abandoned us, Gale had vanished after I bit off his hand, Wyll had died during the Emerald Grove fiasco, Karlach had refused to join us because of the Emerald Grove fiasco, Minthara had attacked us because a party member tried to read her mind promptly after a sexual encounter, and I had killed Astarion because I didn't like the way he treated me. Our only surviving party member was Lae'zel who, miraculously, was undeterred by our (mostly my) senseless violence. This resulted in a hollow and fragmented final act that forced us to fill in the blanks. Once again, this issue is rooted in Baldur's Gate 3's immense level of freedom. Sure, Larian Studios could have put up safety rails so we could have had the “proper” experience, but that would come at the cost of the freedom that is so core to the game, especially in a cooperative setting where every player should feel like the hero of their own story.
The preservation of absolute freedom in co-op also elevates the already excellent combat. With up to four players, each controlling a character, the pace of skirmishes slows to make it feel more strategic. As your party unlocks new spells and abilities, communication becomes vital. Sometimes this can be to execute high-level combos and strategies, other times it can be to simply avoid being incinerated or thrown off a cliff by your friends. Either way, co-op combat becomes a tense and deeply satisfying affair that rewards teamwork and coordination.
I spent roughly 20 of my 200 hours of playtime on PlayStation 5. Based on my experience in Acts 1 and 3 of the console version, the performance was rock solid. Combat, exploration, and dialogue ran smoothly, and thanks to its cross-save functionality, I was able to pick up where I left off on PS5, Steam Deck, and PC. While I prefer mouse and keyboard for a game like this, the DualSense works surprisingly well for Baldur's Gate 3. Most of the heavy lifting is done through radial menus. At any time you can pull up your action menu and cycle through customizable radial menus that house your actions, attacks, spells, and items. Inventory management can get a bit dicey, though, especially if you are playing solo and transferring items between all four party members. It can be a little overwhelming, especially early on, but I can't imagine another way Larian Studios could have crammed all those interactions into a controller. And, if anything, I preferred directly controlling my character and the camera with analog sticks over clicking around on a map.
PlayStation 5 also allows for two-player split-screen co-op. It's a nice addition that is almost as robust as online co-op. However, condensing the HUD and all that pertinent information into two separate lengthwise panels is far from elegant. I did also run into some minor audio bugs, particularly when it came to dialogue not always triggering.
Although PlayStation 5 isn't the best way to experience Baldur's Gate 3, it's still well worth your time if that's your only option. There might be some growing pains when it comes to the interaction wheel and inventory, but it all feels trivial when you factor in the scope and ambition of a game like this.
Near the end of Baldur's Gate 3, a character says, "Too much freedom can be frightening." It's a powerful line within the context of the story, but it also speaks to Baldur's Gate 3 on a deeper level. The freedom that it offers is unprecedented, and it takes a little while to really see the scope of what that means for the game. At times, the sheer number of choices and consequences can be overwhelming. But before long, it becomes apparent that Baldur's Gate 3 allows players to be the authors of their own destinies in a way no other game has before. It's that freedom and reactivity paired with its excellent presentation and fantastic characters that really set Baldur's Gate 3 apart, and it's why after 200 hours I'm still coming back to it. Too much freedom can be frightening, but Larian trusts its players to make the most of it, for better or for worse.
In the US, autumn belongs to football. The sport takes over pop culture in a way no other can match, and after decades of growth, it seems to still be getting more popular. So surely there's room for a second licensed football game on the market, especially when the industry leader is itself so polarizing. That's where Wild Card Football hopes to exist: in the abundant space devoted to football fandom that could host either a Madden alternative, or more likely, a side attraction. Unfortunately, this much more cartoonish take on the sport doesn't quite make the roster, though it's not without a few highlights.
Wild Card Football is an arcade-style football game in the vein of NBA Playgrounds and WWE 2K Battlegrounds. In fact, it comes from the same studio, Saber Interactive, and is billed as part of the broader Playground Sports brand. Somewhere between the enjoyable basketball game and the severely lacking pro wrestling game sits this third take on the format.
Wild Card Football is played in teams of seven, and though it doesn't have a licensing deal with the NFL, it does have one with the NFLPA, meaning current players from every team make up the game's complete roster. Jerseys and team names are legally distinct, but a football fan can easily deduce that Team Mahomes is the Chiefs, Team Hurts is the Eagles, and so on.
This is an important detail, as it immediately adds some excitement to see familiar stars on the field. However, it was difficult throughout my time with the game to feel like those stars. The arcade-like gameplay has a way of generalizing the players, leaving the best of the best like Tyreek Hill or Travis Kelce, and the more middling guys like Nick Westbrook-Ikhine and Tyler Algier, feeling too athletically similar. This makes those famous names and faces feel like only that.
The titular "wild cards" are aptly named. Before each down, you can play power-ups and modifiers that will either buff your players or nerf your rival's. But like the players, the benefits of these aren't always as obvious as they're clearly meant to be, and sometimes they're awkward to activate. A card that reduces the speed of my opponent by 50% for one play sounds devastating, but I found no rhyme or reason in how I'd fare on such plays, even when running things like wide receiver streaks or running back sweeps that should display the speed disparity quite clearly. Other major modifiers, like creating an alien invasion on the field or giving a ball carrier invisibility, are the sort of over-the-top imagery the game is sold on, but I enjoyed my time with the game most of all when wild cards weren't in play, because they're so common and can sometimes feel so pointless anyway.
All they do consistently is slow a game down as teams select their cards before virtually every down. Because you can see your opponent's cards, oftentimes teams would just offset each other, like when I'd play a card that gives my team a 50% speed boost, but my rival would play a card that reduces my team speed by 50%. This happened often. I disliked this process so much that I actually stopped using them much of the time, especially against the CPU, and my play on the field didn't suffer, which indicated to me that they really aren't adding much to the game.
Even in games where wild cards aren't allowed, an initial quicktime event (QTE) at the snap of the ball features a timing window that is too short for the average player. And when that QTE fails on offense, you're liable to run for a loss or no gain at best. These issues combined to create a game-long cadence where my allegedly standout players would routinely be hamstrung by too-common power-ups or punishing QTEs. Instead of over-the-top tackle animations and cartoonish touchdowns deserving of a highlight reel, many plays would lead to vanilla incompletions or short runs the likes of which don't make memories. When I would break a big play or hit the timing window just right to make a big third down stop, I saw glimpses of the game's best bits--but these only happened about half the time in any given game. The other half unfolded as broken plays.
Animations are fun, anyway, including some comical gang tackles, stiff-arms that lead to backflips, and some sacks that make the QB look like a Looney Tunes villain getting their comeuppance. But even then, post-play flourishes like emoting players seem to occur after nearly every play. Even in a lighthearted setting such as this, I don't want most plays to go on twice as long because a player has to first finish their dance moves. But the worst presentation feature is surely Chris Berman's involvement. The longtime ESPN personality lent his voice to the game, but it's used so sparingly and he sounds so phoned in that it would definitely be an addition by subtraction to have produced the game without his efforts. He says something at the start and end of the game, and then never again except for, oddly enough, timeouts. Ends of quarters and all plays in between come and go without his involvement.
Games are short--meant to be finished in about 15 minutes or so--across modes that include online and local PvP, a solo Tour mode, which throws seemingly randomized challenges at you as you scale a rewards tree, and the game's central attraction, Dream Squad. In Dream Squad, the legally distinct rosters are thrown out in favor of a fantasy-football-style mode that shuffles players around and hits them with massive ratings nerfs to give you upgrades to chase. This is, essentially, the game's Ultimate Team mode, and both the aforementioned Tour and the online League play reward loot boxes that cannot be purchased otherwise, which grant you new cosmetics, emotes, and, most importantly, these player cards. Divided into color-coded loot tiers, each player starts bad, with overalls somewhere in the 40s-60s, but has a skill ceiling determined by their rarity, meaning a legend (gold) card can become better with playing time than a (common) green player card.
The process of improving players is rather slow and seems overly optimistic about the likelihood of players devoting a lot of time to this game. It even has daily challenges, but doesn't really justify that sort of playing schedule given the middling on-field experience. The inclusion of loot boxes, even as they are not available for purchase, feels odd in a 2023 console game. I'd much rather climb for specific rewards, which is something similar modes have been adopting for a few years now.
Despite that, I would say Dream Squad is my preferred mode, but that's only relative to the others which I found forgettable. It's nice to have PvP options for both local and online play, but the team-building process of Dream Squad is a more involved longform task than running around with squishy versions of NFL stars through a season. And even though microtransactions are nearly absent in this mode, the ability to get a head-start on the competition by buying one of the game's two more expensive versions does feel like an unforced error. We're years into sports games getting away with lousy pay-to-win tactics, and Wild Card Football could've been a welcome respite from that world. While it shows much more restraint than Madden or NBA 2K, Dream Squad can still become a matchup of haves versus have-nots.
The game's absolute best parts all revolve around customization. In Dream Squad, you create your own team logo and team name, create a color scheme, choose a stadium, and make custom uniforms, either piece by piece with a wide range of options like Darth Vader-style helmets and off-brand Chuck Taylors for cleats, or with full sets of outlandish outfits like pirates or teddy bears. Each player on your team can be assigned their own emotes, and you can allow individual players' customized kits to supersede the team uniform, giving you an army of colorful misfits. There's a ton there right away and you'll keep earning more as you play Dream Squad and earn more loot boxes. You can also create your own wild card decks and playbooks, the latter of which I really love doing.
The intent of Wild Card Football is evident, but too often its good parts are buried beneath its worst aspects. Customization is fun, animations are absurd, and when a game is clicking, it can feel like a decent romp in between--or as salvation from--Madden games. But it doesn't click often enough, making each game feel sluggishly paced despite the short quarters. Finding the fun in something that visually looks so fun is trickier here than it should be, but the unintended parity among players plus the overuse of the game's faulty namesake feature makes Wild Card Football play like the expansion franchise it is.
Cocoon, the debut game from Geometric Interactive, is a surreal and intimate puzzle game that is also beautifully complex. Considering the pedigree of its gameplay designer--Jeppe Carlsen of Limbo and Inside fame--perhaps this shouldn't be too surprising, but it didn't stop me from continuously being in awe of just how tight and intelligent the overall experience was. This, paired with fantastic sound design and art, both synthetic and organic--lush yet scarce--makes for a memorable experience.
Cocoon sees you take on the role of a cicada-like creature moments after it emerges from a womb of petals. Without fanfare, exposition, or any guidance, this creature is thrust into an orange, arid, and largely desolate world. There are few enemies to be found in Cocoon, to be sure, but all of them are relegated to closed off arenas, where you must use quick thinking and evasion to get the best of them. While some of these boss battles are incredibly engaging (and others, not quite as much), combat is not the focus in Cocoon--it's exploration.
In the game's open world, only ancient-looking structures that pulse with strange power keep you company. Your mission, then, is simple: Use these structures to keep pushing forward. Why you are meant to push forward is never made explicit, but it also doesn't feel like it needs to be. There seems to be this intangible force that compels you to--this notion that moving forward is both benevolent and part of the journey you must take.
The way you progress is, on paper, quite simple. The game uses just five buttons--one for each of the four cardinal directions and one to interact--and most structures you encounter are powered on by inserting an orb into the proper place. However, what's theoretically simple can quickly grow complex.
Within these orbs are entire worlds which you can enter by placing them in the middle of a mechanical structure that then reflects the environment in a shallow pool of water. You can seamlessly transition between worlds, and solving puzzles in one will, in turn, help you progress through others. Where it truly gets complex is how often you are required to place worlds within worlds so that situations play out precisely as they need to for you to advance. Additionally, holding on to these world orbs grants you unique powers. When clutching the orange orb, for example, your cicada can reveal paths it wouldn't otherwise be able to walk on, while the seafoam green orb allows you to use what I can only best describe as water elevators.
Timing, utilizing these powers in the right order, and abstract thinking becomes key to progression. There's a logic the game silently teaches you as you solve these puzzles--a set of rules that you learn fairly quickly. But while Cocoon's fundamental mechanics rarely change, the ways in which you use them continue to expand throughout the game. I found myself thinking, "Wait, can I do this?" only to be met with a resounding yes time and time again. It's amazing how something so simplistic can be brilliant--and not only that, but it makes you feel brilliant. Piecing together how the laws of this universe work, and testing to see just how far they extend, is an extraordinary experience--one that keeps your mind engaged and your curiosity piqued.
And while all this might sound complicated (and don't get me wrong, some of the puzzles can be head-scratchers), none of it is overwhelming thanks to the game isolating what you need to be focused on to progress. If an area doesn't relate to the current puzzle you are trying to solve, it will be inconspicuously closed off. This prevents the frustration that can occur in puzzle games where you are frantically backtracking, wondering what small detail you missed or if there was something you did previously that was incorrect. It subtly informs you that you are exactly where you need to be, thus narrowing down all the potential variables to a manageable number.
Subtlety is also a concept that works its way into the game's sound design. While your journey through Cocoon is often quiet, it's a very purposeful silence that builds into swelling compositions, like the bass-heavy track that accompanies boss battles or the gentle motif that plays when you solve a puzzle correctly. But overall, there's an eeriness to Cocoon's sound that is not unsettling, but atmospheric.
This is heightened by the game's art direction, which is full of juxtaposing visuals that create both unease and wonder. Whereas the world is filled with metal structures and perfect geometry, there is also an organic feel to it--this sense that you are within a living organism, brushing up against Golgi bodies, vessels, vesicles, and other apparatuses. Yet these imperfect and bulbous creations manage to feel intricate and intentional as you consider the functions they serve in living things. Another intelligent design choice was assigning a distinct color palette to each of the game's worlds. Considering all the juggling, traveling, and the way Cocoon embraces this idea of recursion, it helps keep you aware of where you are. But while there is an array of different colors, all of them are gently muted, as to create harmony between all these disparate worlds.
It is thanks to its artistic subtlety and lack of an explicit narrative that Cocoon encourages your mind to wander and extract what I believe to be its biggest takeaway and a harsh truth: Our greatest journeys--the ones that give us purpose and guide our personal evolution--are insignificant in the grand scheme of things. And sure, there's a certain sense of powerlessness that sinks in when you try to process that information; it's the same gut-punch feeling that comes when you begin to consider the sheer size of our ever-expanding universe. But there's also liberation. And perhaps most importantly, it doesn't make what we endure and what we become any less valuable to the world we are creating for ourselves. While the game's slightly abrupt ending detracts from this message somewhat, it still manages to come through.
Cocoon, as the name suggests, is a game about self-evolution. From the moment you emerge from the womb-like structure at the game's beginning, pushing forward and learning are your primary focuses--even if what you're ultimately accomplishing feels a bit unclear. But it's also about how the self is but a small part of life--how entire worlds can fit in an insect's tarsal segments. From its puzzles to its visuals, Cocoon is a beautiful game filled with brilliance and meaning, delivered in a subtle yet unforgettable way.
Pokemon has flourished as a series in part because it crosses generations. The main series of creature-collecting RPGs and popular TCG are simple enough for children just starting to learn about role-playing-game mechanics, but with enough complexity and depth to support a flourishing competitive scene for adults. Pokemon's spin-offs, on the other hand, are usually more narrowly targeted, and that's the case for Detective Pikachu Returns. The narrative-heavy adventure game certainly has its charms, but it's so gentle and simplistic that only younger pocket monster fans need apply.
Like the first Detective Pikachu, you play primarily as Tim Goodman, the college-aged son of renowned detective Harry Goodman, who has gone missing since before the first game. You're accompanied by Harry's partner, a Pikachu in a deerstalker cap who considers himself a great detective. Tim is the only human who can communicate with Pikachu, and while neither of them are officially part of any police force, they find themselves embroiled in investigations surrounding strange happenings in Ryme City. And naturally, Tim is still searching for answers about what happened to his father.
In classic adventure-game style, most of your investigations revolve around searching around environments for evidence, talking to witnesses, and ultimately reaching a conclusion based on what you found. The crimes here are relatively low-stakes and child-friendly--a jewel heist, wrongful arrests of innocent Pokemon, and so on. For a series that has built its name on battling, there's shockingly little violence between Pokemon themselves. If two Pokemon are coming to blows, or even threatening to do so, it's treated like an emergency. That's because in Ryme City, Pokemon are treated like fellow citizens, and the city prides itself on peaceful coexistence between humans and the creatures.
But while Ryme City is meant to be a bustling metropolis, I didn't get that impression from actually exploring the environments. Across the game's five cases, you explore an area of the city equivalent to, maybe, three or four city blocks, along with a few other locations outside the city. And even in the metropolitan areas, the setting is sparsely populated without much to see or do. There are a handful of people to talk to, or Pokemon to speak with using Pikachu as a translator, and most of them are mission critical. The others serve as simple side quests, requesting for example that you find a Pokemon strong enough to open a jar. These diorama-like sets are also remarkably narrow, straight paths, so most of your time is spent running back and forth across an almost 2D stretch of the street.
Similarly simplistic are the puzzle solutions themselves. The game will prompt you when you've seen everything you need to see, so there's no chance you've missed vital evidence before forming a conclusion. When it comes time to deduce a solution, you're taken to a flowchart screen where your conclusions are presented in multiple choice. Most of the time, these reminded me of the quizzes I'd get in grade school, where at least one of the multiple choice answers was so comically wrong that the teacher obviously inserted it as a freebie for kids first learning how to use the process of elimination. If you somehow do get the answer wrong, there's no penalty at all; it simply Xs out the wrong answer and prompts you to try again. Then, once you've successfully deduced the answer, the dialogue will tell you almost exactly what you need to do next.
The visual style is equally no-frills, with Pokemon rendered in a very basic presentation that actually grew on me as time went on. Pokemon are often at their best when their designs are simple and elegant, and since Detective Pikachu Returns doesn't have to render hundreds upon hundreds of the creatures, it was able to choose the ones that look the best using this visual language.
This was most evident with Pikachu, who looks great in a wide variety of dialogue portraits that help give him personality. He's also very expressive and animated in occasional cutscenes, which is also where you get to hear the most of his unexpectedly gruff voice. Those also pepper in little jokes and visual gags, which was enough to elicit at least one belly laugh and a few other warm chuckles from me.
While the bulk of the game is seen through the eyes of Tim Goodman, you do sometimes take control of Pikachu himself, as well as other Pokemon he's befriended to help in his investigations. Early on, you meet a Growlithe who can follow scents, for example, and later you find a Luxray who can see through walls. These moments are brief and very prescriptive, but it works well enough to break up the pace of the traditional adventure-game puzzles. When Detective Pikachu Returns does introduce a mechanic that seems like it could introduce some complexity--for example, at one point you're told you can only do something twice per day--it holds your hand so much that the new wrinkle doesn't really matter.
And this being a mystery game for kids, I often found myself ahead of the writing. That's understandable, of course, since you want children to learn how the mystery genre works, but it also meant I spent a lot of time waiting for the characters to catch up with conclusions I had already made, and that made wading through the dialogue a bit dull. Plus, while the story ultimately concludes differently, some of the central mysteries in Detective Pikachu Returns share a lot in common with the Detective Pikachu live-action movie that came out four years ago, which put a damper on some of the ostensible surprises.
Detective Pikachu Returns is charming and well-made enough for what it is, but that is a mystery game made for younger readers. Its setting, story, and mechanics are all geared toward gently introducing the uninitiated to mystery tropes with a soft-touch approach, and that makes it hard to recommend for any age group above tweens. There's some satisfaction to be had in seeing the story unfold, but mostly this is a game made to be played by or with kids, not to make you feel like a kid again.
Aside from the new name and logo being emblazoned on almost every menu screen in sight, you'd be hard-pressed to distinguish EA Sports FC 24 from the latest FIFA game. In short, EA's latest football sim introduces a number of subtle improvements to its on-pitch action while sprinkling in some incremental additions to long-standing game modes like Ultimate Team and Career. It still offers an exciting, albeit familiar, game of back-and-forth football, but the demanding yearly release schedule isn't doing the series any favors. Even with the fancy new rebrand, EA FC is an expected follow-up to FIFA 23, offering a slight evolution rather than anything revelatory.
As is often the case from one game to the next, the pace of play in EA FC 24 feels a tad slower compared to last year. If history repeats itself, this is likely to change in the coming weeks--particularly once superpowered cards are more prevalent in Ultimate Team--but creating openings via slick passing moves is currently the best way to break down a stubborn defense. It helps that player movement is ultra-responsive, to the point where it's possible to wiggle out of danger without needing to utilize the game's agile dribbling mechanic. This is easier to do with a diminutive and agile player as opposed to someone like cover star Erling Haaland, but he excels in other areas, often bulldozing right through defenses. Either way, the movement of players--and their noticeable differences--looks much smoother than in the past; the connective animations between disparate movements flow together seamlessly. EA adds a deluge of new animations every year, but those in EA FC 24 lend the game a more natural look and feel that's immediately palpable in the way you move across the pitch.
Unfortunately, other areas of the game remain unchanged, much to the game's detriment. Goalkeepers occasionally try to save shots by diving sideways into the goal, which usually results in them either punching the ball into their own net or letting it sail over their heads. Passes will sometimes veer wildly off target, and defending can be frustrating when successful tackles regularly bounce back to attackers, especially when it puts them in a much more advantageous position than they were in before. It doesn't help that off-the-ball AI still has trouble tracking runs, and referees are wildly inconsistent in regards to what is and isn't a foul. I've already encountered a few baffling red-card decisions--although one could argue this is sadly authentic. The removal of driven lobbed-through passes also takes some getting used to, but this seems to have been done in service of EA FC 24's new PlayStyles mechanic.
PlayStyles make the differences between players even more pronounced by shining a spotlight on their strengths. Most players are equipped with a few distinct PlayStyles, pulling from a total of 32 that are spread across six categories: scoring, passing, ball control, defending, physical, and goalkeeper. It's fairly easy to notice when a player has a PlayStyle like Finesse Shot or Incisive Pass equipped because it feels much more satisfying to perform those actions. These aren't abilities you have to activate like a Mario Strikers power-up, either; they organically happen as you play. It's an intuitive system that fits into the natural flow of a match, tapping into each player's individuality by adding a fresh layer to the usual moment-to-moment gameplay.
Most world-class players are also afforded a single PlayStyle+, which elevates a regular PlayStyle by bumping up its attributes to ensure that these players stand out. Mohamed Salah, for instance, has the aforementioned Finesse Shot set as his PlayStyle+, allowing him to perform finesse shots much faster and with more curvature and accuracy than other players. It's a signature ability that's reflective of the real player and emphasizes one of his main strengths. In the same way, a player like Joshua Kimmich can deliver a lobbed pass with more pace and accuracy than someone without the requisite PlayStyle+. Previously, almost any player could hit long passes on a dime. Now, it's the domain of the very best, giving you more options to consider when it comes to building a team.
This shakes up Ultimate Team--EA's card-collecting cash cow--because you might not always choose a player based solely on their ratings. This is also doubly true now that players from the women's game have been integrated into Ultimate Team, with six women's leagues--including the Barclays Women's Super League and National Women's Soccer League--creating even more squad-building opportunities. With everyone from Sam Kerr to Alexia Putellas, the influx of female players are well-balanced for mixed-gender matches. The attributes between men and women are equal, so Lena Oberdorf can utilize her strength the same way Virgil van Dijk can. Still, most of the female players are better suited to specific positions and roles due to their height, much the same as their male counterparts. Shorter goalkeepers, for instance, tend to leak goals despite their attributes, so it's rare to find a team willing to start a female 'keeper. It's the same problem that afflicts five-foot six-inch Jorge Campos and his Hero card. At the other end of the pitch, however, the close control and low center of gravity players like Marta possess are sure to shake up the Ultimate Team meta, especially once more special cards are released.
Ultimate Team improves in a few other areas, too. Position modifiers are a thing of the past, so players can now simply slot into any of their secondary positions without needing to spend a resource to do so. This gives you more room to experiment with both formations and where to position specific players, especially when their PlayStyle+ might be better suited elsewhere depending on your own playstyle. Squad Battles matches are also mercifully shorter this time around, dropping from six-minute halves to only four-minute periods either side of halftime. This prevents these clashes against the CPU from feeling like too much of a slog while still giving you enough time to tick off a few objectives.
Evolutions, on the other hand, is an exciting new feature that gives you the chance to improve and customize players from your club for the first time. If a player meets certain criteria, you can choose to evolve them by completing a number of challenges--such as winning four games with that player in your starting 11--to unlock a permanent stat upgrade. Different types of Evolutions will cycle through each season, but at launch, one of the options lets you take a bronze player with a maximum rating of 64 and transform them into an 84-rated gold player. This is exciting for supporters of lower-league teams because it gives you the chance to actually use one of your favorite players in Ultimate Team. It also means you don't have to rely solely on pack luck. You now have the potential to improve your starting striker to keep up with the power curve without needing to spend coins on a new one or pray you pull one in packs.
The one downside to Evolutions is that it provides another avenue for predatory microtransactions. While most of the current Evolutions are free, there's one upgrade path that lets you transform a winger from a 79 rating to an 85 rating. It costs either 50,000 in-game coins--not an insignificant amount--or 1,000 FC Points. The latter can only be purchased with real money, either in 100-point increments at $1 each, or 1,050 points for $10. This is just another layer to Ultimate Team's inherent imbalance, where those willing to spend money have a much better chance of building a strong team than those who don't. EA FC 24 has already courted controversy by introducing an Elite Season Opener Pack that costs 285,000 coins or 3,000 FC Points. It's ostensibly a pay-to-win bundle, but one that also has a chance of giving you little more than a pile of duplicates. I'm sure EA received a fat check to make sure every Ultimate Team match is "delivered by Amazon Prime," so it's more than a little dystopian that it's still asking for extra money from its already-paying customers.
Fortunately, microtransactions haven't yet made their way into either Player or Manager Career. The former adds Player Agents to help flesh out the mode by giving you a checklist of objectives to complete throughout the season in order to earn a new contract at your current team or transfer to a new club. This sounds like a solid idea in theory, but some of the objectives are completely nonsensical. You could score 40 goals but still be released from your contract because five of them weren't overhead kicks. Other objectives task you with achieving feats no player ever has before, like accomplishing 37 assists across a single season. Manager Career fares better by introducing seven tactical identities for you to choose from. You might opt for a defensive approach with Park the Bus or use Gegenpressing to relentlessly press your opponents high up the pitch. You then need to hire coaches that match your identity, with better coaches boosting the attributes of your players. Again, this is a solid idea, but I didn't notice it having a tactile effect on how my players felt to control. Once again, the series' single-player modes feel like an afterthought compared to Ultimate Team.
EA Sports FC 24 is a better game than FIFA 23, but only marginally so. PlayStyles, Evolutions, and the addition of women in Ultimate Team are all positive steps forward, but it takes just as many steps back. The same gameplay issues continue to crop up, Career mode is underbaked, and Ultimate Team is still marred by the inescapable presence of microtransactions--and they've only gotten worse. The on-pitch action is excellent, with some frustrating caveats, and it's capable of moments of pure footballing joy. For those expecting a reinvention to go along with the new name, this is not that. EA FC 24 is the same ugly, beautiful game.
Capcom's Resident Evil 4 remake takes one of the greatest games of all time and rebuilds it into a masterpiece that stands right alongside the original. Helpfully, Capcom had excellent source material to work from, which isn't the case for the original's add-on, Separate Ways. Don't get me wrong, Ada Wong's solo outing was a fun excuse to re-enter the dilapidated world of RE4, but the original add-on did little to differentiate its gameplay from the main campaign and didn't make itself essential to the overall experience from a narrative perspective either. The remake of Separate Ways, however, is the opposite, adding several new tools to its core gameplay, shaking up familiar environments with completely new set pieces, and fleshing out the story. Far from being a throwaway add-on, Resident Evil 4 remake's version of Separate Ways makes an already phenomenal game feel even more complete.
The foundation of Separate Ways' premise remains the same as in the original: You step into the high heels of antiheroine Ada Wong and act as a spy to hunt down a biological weapon for longtime Resident Evil antagonist Albert Wesker. Her allegiances, however, are ambiguous, with Ada playing multiple sides in the story, sometimes working against Wesker and assisting Leon on his mission to save the president's daughter Ashley Graham or partnering up with suave biologist Luis Sera. She has a dual motive for nearly everything she does. But this time around, the stakes have been turned up a notch, as Ada is also infected with plagas--the same parasitic disease that's infected the villagers, Leon, and Ashley in the main story. This additional layer gives Ada a stronger motive for working alongside Luis, who is the answer to finding a cure. This, in turn, merits a whole lot more welcomed screen time for our charismatic and ever-charming Spanish biologist too.
As a spy, Ada is equipped with many gadgets that transform the core gameplay, most prominently her grappling hook, which she can use to zipline to higher ground and over obstacles, or to pull herself toward enemies to deliver a badass swirling kick. Additionally, she has access to an augmented-reality implant that allows her to see footsteps or fingerprints, both of which are used to track characters like Luis or reveal button presses, acting as mini-puzzles to bypass locked doors. It's a bespoke gameplay system for Ada that adds an extra wrinkle to her campaign and emphasizes a detective-like quality that we haven't seen in any previous Resident Evil. The inclusion of these mechanics adds much-needed texture to Ada, painting her as the capable and resourceful spy we've always been told she is, but have never seen firsthand. Usually, she appears at the most convenient moments to help another character out or provide a weapon, but now we get to see how she uses her own skills to track characters down and complete missions from the shadows.
As a result of the extra gadgetry, the tone of the game leans unabashedly into its spy aesthetic, using Sean Connery-era Bond twangy guitars to underpin Ada's mission--it makes everything feel cool and suave, which Ada Wong is. Contrary to Leon's one-liner-action-hero demeanor, Ada is reserved, serious, and calculated, which voice actress Lily Gao nails in her performance. There's a dryness in her tone and an imperious air to her delivery. It's a grounded representation of the character that stands out among the melodrama of its other cast, especially Albert Wesker, who seems to be carrying the weight of the franchise's theatrics in every airy line he delivers, and somehow it still works.
Naturally, the emphasis on espionage also brings with it a lot more stealth. Familiar levels from before, like the castle walls, have been redesigned to encourage the player to sneak around and take down ganados methodically. However, at times, its encouragement to employ stealth felt more like a means to bolster its spy-like vibe than serve any purposeful challenge. Too often, enemies were positioned conveniently facing away from me or simply walking in circles, with an obvious blindspot I could enter to take them down. It felt like stealth-on-rails and was unrewarding as a result. But stealth is optional, so you don't have to play it cool and quiet, and you can jump in, knives swinging and guns blazing. The game feels better with that approach, too, as it's where Ada's new abilities shine.
Ada's new ability to grapple toward enemies, which appears as a button prompt when staggering enemies, makes combat feel punchier, more dynamic, and more damn stylish than before. There's an added risk/reward when closing the gap between you and a crowd of ganados, followed by a waltz of gunfire, knife parries, and melee violence. Additionally, the zipline allows for quick traversal out of claustrophobic encounters via prompts scattered all around you. This also opens the door to pitting you against familiar enemies in unfamiliar environments. The hedge maze, for example, was a new combat arena where I could zipline over walls while trying to hunt down one enemy and dodging the grasp of others. The last major addition to Ada's zipline is the ability to yank shields from enemies, which is a skill that comes in the form of a charm that can be purchased from the Merchant. It's reminiscent of Batman's grapple gun in Rocksteady's Arkham games in its ability to rob enemies of their defenses.
Separate Ways also tells a story not explored in the original at all and serves as its biggest achievement in defining itself as an essential extension to Leon's campaign. While the original was similar in showing how Ada assisted Leon, this remake creates deeper connections and new plotlines that make it vital to understand the full scope of what's at stake. Ada's infection is used as a throughline to establish Pesanta, the black-hooded foe from Leon's campaign who mysteriously disappeared, as a relentless antagonist who stalks Ada throughout her mission.
Separate Ways takes significant liberties in fleshing out its story, often by reintroducing iconic scenes from the original's main campaign that were omitted in the remake. Some of these iconic scenes, like the infamous laser hall, actually fit better stylistically within the context of Ada's Mission Impossible-esque story. In some ways, this DLC serves as a nice love letter to longtime fans more than the actual remake does because of the inclusion of these scenes. At times, though, it can also feel heavy-handed, with some moments being reimagined less successfully than others.
Where things like the aforementioned laser hall fit with Ada's gymnastic prowess and high-tech abilities, and the drilling spike wall works nicely with the pulpy spy tone, the U-3 fight felt wedged in. Separate Ways does a far better job of contextualizing U-3 as a throughline in ways I'd rather not spoil, but it doesn't quite find its footing in the execution, resulting in the campaign's most bland boss fight and the omission of the scariest part of its original. It is reduced to a languishing and uninspired arena fight. Still, it's a minor misstep in comparison to the many excellent boss fights Separate Ways manages to fit into its modest but action-packed four hours, some of which outshine even the main game's fights. Ada's showdown with Saddler, for example, is particularly memorable due in part to some cutscene badassery in its final moments.
Separate Ways isn't just more Resident Evil 4. It's a meaningful expansion that delivers a new story through a distinct tone and with new mechanics. It is an essential extension of an already remarkable game. Although its nods to the past can feel a bit overt, it still packs a punch that'll have me playing it many times over again.
The idea of a vampire fighting against its base nature to uphold modern morals is one that has been explored before, but not exactly through the same lens as in El Paso, Elsewhere. This third-person shooter takes inspiration from some of the best in the genre but eschews expectations with a thrilling love story between a vampire and vampire hunter, exploring the complexities of the pairing as the world is crumbling around them.
You play as James Savage, a pill-addicted monster hunter living in a secluded hotel in El Paso and on a mission to save the world from his ex-girlfriend, Draculae. This version of the famed vampire has enacted a ritual that brings about the end times. More specifically for Savage, it means a rip through the fabric of reality that sends him from the stained carpets of the motel down a warped void filled with visually diverse levels. At first, El Paso, Elsewhere focuses on Savage, delving into his destructive personality and vices, whether it's popping pain pills or relishing the violence he's engaged in. It takes a while, but eventually the true scope of the story comes into view, with new locales and fourth-wall breaking narration exposing this game's novel take on the mythology behind vampires, and how the relationship between Savage and Janet Drake, known later as Draculae, fits into that.
The voice acting for both Savage and Draculae is exceptionally captivating. Their blossoming love is thoughtfully conveyed through audio logs you find throughout your journey, with playful exchanges (like a conversation about how Transformers procreate) doing an excellent job at establishing a relationship you never get to see. Later, when the two characters exchange words directly, the absence of this warmth is noticeable. There's clearly still love between the two, but it's separated by a gap in morality that neither can compromise on. These exchanges are short but sharp, each word a stake one is trying to lay in the other, all the while Savage barely maintains a grip on the enormity of the task waiting for him at the end. It's a compelling dynamic that gets an equally satisfying conclusion, but it is a pity it takes a handful of hours for it to really get going.
The core gameplay focus is on getting into a level, shooting as many monsters as possible, potentially saving some hostages, and getting back out through the void-traversing elevator you arrived in. The action is punchy and exhilarating; successive headshots are a delight thanks to the satisfying audio cue for each successful hit, while the liberal slow-motion meter--which is filled with each kill--lets you pull off some satisfying dives and twists in mid-air, firing off accurate shots with the ease of a seasoned killer. The crunch that a stake makes as you drive it into an enemy accentuates the raw power that the wooden weapon contains, dispatching most enemies instantly if you dare get close enough.
El Paso, Elsewhere embraces a power fantasy but still presents the right amount of challenge. Guns don't reload automatically, for example, which is a small but profound change after years of muscle memory from most other games. This change also limits how much you can do in a stint of slow-motion, since reloading (and changing weapons) can chew through your meter far too quickly. Knowing when you make a daring dive, which direction to use it in, and ensuring you have the right weapon for the group of enemies you want to dispatch are all factors you need to consider repeatedly, with the steady pace of firefights and variety of enemies keeping the loop continually engaging.
This void that you explore gets filled in with locales from the couple's history, as well as memories from throughout their lives, slowly transforming from one to the other in such a delicate fashion that it really helps the theme that Savage is losing his grip on reality. For example, a dark cemetery where Savage shared his first dates with Draculae gets smashed together with a haunting abattoir that recalls a past, traumatic hunt. These combinations are subtle, with one locale slowly giving way to another over the course of a few levels, replicating the confusion that Savage experiences effectively. There's a surprisingly wide range of scenery that is pulled from and used well to keep the otherwise straightforward navigation through each stage fresh and exciting, especially when El Paso, Elsewhere hits a stride in the final third, using level construction and set pieces to really play around delightful with each distinct area type.
From its narrative presentation to its gameplay, El Paso, Elsewhere takes inspiration from numerous other narrative-based shooters, stretching back decades up to some more recent releases. The manner in which James Savage narrates the tale, coupled with the somber tone and heavy use of slow-motion diving, will instantly remind you of games such as Max Payne and Stranglehold, while the bold, screen-consuming titles for each stage will have you recalling the distinct usage of the same technique in Remedy's Control.
El Paso, Elsewhere isn't shy about emulating its inspirations, but it isn't wholly defined by them either. It uses these individual elements to bolster its own strong ideas, which give life to levels that are pulsating music videos with evocative rap lyrics, or mind-bending trips through layouts that cascade on themselves as you navigate them passively, focusing on the twisting nature of the stage around you rather than blasting enemies away. From its distinctly retro-style character models to the chunky pickups for ammo and health, El Paso, Elsewhere looks like something you've played before but also won't be mistaken for anything other than itself, which is a difficult balance to strike.
Despite taking more time than it should to really hit its stride, El Paso, Elsewhere is unrelenting once it does. Its straightforward action is enhanced by its consistently evolving enemies and delicate balancing of power, while its captivating love story presents a novel take on established mythologies with some impressive performances to back them up. It wears its inspirations on its sleeve but has its own ideas to add to the mix, making El Paso, Elsewhere much more than the sum of its apparent parts. It's a game with its own interesting approach to narrative that's backed by exciting gunplay, and one you shouldn't judge entirely by what it reminds you of.
Editor's Note: Pokemon Scarlet and Violet's expansion comes in two parts and can't be purchased individually. Because of this, we've decided to share our impressions of Part One and will update it with a full review of The Hidden Treasure of Area Zero when both parts are available. The score attached to this review is subject to change based on this.
The fan reception to Scarlet and Violet's launch varied wildly within the community. Every Pokemon fan seems to know what's best for the series, and they were happy to share their opinions on Scarlet and Violet with anyone who would listen. Some fans decried the bugs, the struggling frame rate, and other technical problems, while others appreciated the new mechanics, open world, and story enough to make peace with these issues. Whichever side you fell on, the community was split as always.

However, the further we get away from release, the more the community cools off. And those who've stuck around for the long-term, namely competitive players, have dug their claws deep into the meta. This is where Pokemon is at its best, and The Teal Mask bolsters that side of the series through new and returning Pokemon, more TMs and moves, and some welcome quality-of-life changes. This is all wrapped up in a rich new region with a heartfelt story. While The Teal Mask doesn't do much to address Scarlet and Violet's poor technical performance, its changes and additions offer an exciting first part in a larger expansion.
The Teal Mask is billed as a class field trip. A handful of students are randomly selected to study abroad in a new rural Japan-inspired region called Kitakami. Your character is among the lucky few, and you're whisked away to the countryside. It's a punchy introduction that gets you to the new area quickly and has you catching new and returning Pokemon right away.
While Kitakami shares a lot of geographical features with Paldea--rolling green hills, serene lakes adorned with waterfalls, and a rugged mountain fixed in the center of the map--what sets it apart is its rich culture. The folks who call Kitakami home have a deep reverence for the Loyal Three, a trio of legendary Pokemon similar to the legendary birds or dogs from previous generations. As the story goes, the Loyal Three protected the townsfolk from a fearsome ogre. As a student, your assignment is to explore the Kitakami region and piece together the tale of the Loyal Three and the Ogre. It's a simple setup, but it's an effective way to familiarize yourself with the region, its history, and the characters.
The heart and soul of The Teal Mask are two of its new characters: Carmine and Keiran. These siblings were born and raised in Kitakami and attend Blueberry Academy (which will be featured more prominently in the second DLC, The Indigo Disk). As you explore the region, they'll color your discoveries with personal experience and local insight. Quickly, you learn that Keiran feels like an outsider and Carmine is competitive to a fault. The story provides an excellent backdrop for both of these characters, particularly Keiran, as his struggle with acceptance mirrors the plight of the Loyal Three and the Ogre. The story builds to a satisfying conclusion that neatly ties things up in the Kitakami region, while also sowing the seeds for the second expansion.
It's a touching story that regularly took me by surprise. While Scarlet and Violet's story had some exciting revelations up its sleeve, mainline Pokemon games are often shackled to a handful of recurring tropes: the gym challenge, an evil or misunderstood faction, and a rival. With The Teal Mask, it's refreshing to play a semi-self-contained and condensed story that sheds a lot of those tropes in order to shine a brighter light on its characters. It takes roughly four to five hours to get through, but altogether it took me around 12 hours when factoring in completing the Kitakami Pokedex.
Once you've wrapped up the story, there are still reasons to explore Kitakami, including a handful of secrets and a powerful new Pokemon to catch. But as good as its narrative chops are, the biggest draw is the new and returning Pokemon. Dipplin, Sinistcha, and the Loyal Three are creative additions that fit thematically within the region and its culture. Meanwhile, fan favorites like Milotic, Chandelure, and Gliscor are welcome inclusions to Scarlet and Violet's Pokedex.
It's hard to say which Pokemon will shake up the competitive scene, but there are a few new and returning moves that could certainly make waves, such as Grassy Glide, Syrup Bomb, and Matcha Gotcha. The added TMs could also make certain Pokemon viable once again. For instance, Scald and Toxic were fairly common on competitive teams of past generations but were missing from Scarlet and Violet at launch. At the very least, EV boosting and resetting items are far more plentiful in Kitakami thanks to the Ogre Oustin' minigame. This makes it much easier for competitors to train up these new and returning Pokemon and put them to the test.
However, the only real test Scarlet and Violet offers are a few tricky trainer battles, none of which consist of double battles. Without a Battle Tower or something similar, this means the only way to put these new and returning Pokemon through the paces is by going online. Online functionality is decent, but it doesn't always provide the best space to test out different strategies and builds. Based on what we know about the second expansion, it sounds like something similar to the Battle Tower could return, but for now, The Scarlet and Violet still feel like they are missing a core component of the endgame experience.
The Teal Mask's most apparent flaw is the same one that ultimately held back Scarlet and Violet. The performance and graphical quality are rough. The new region is plagued by low frame rates, poor-looking textures, and visual bugs. If you were hoping that update 2.0.1 might patch those issues, you're out of luck. There are some minor fixes, such as smoother Pokemon Box navigation, but it's hard to appreciate given how subpar the game remains from a technical standpoint.
Some sports game franchises often have their problems attributed to a lack of competition in their respective genres. Fans will proclaim that certain sports sim series would be better if only they were up against a similar product when players went looking to buy one. NBA 2K hasn't had a consistent competitor for most of the last decade, and it's been a reliably fun simulation of basketball regardless. That is still largely the case in NBA 2K24, but the eminently enjoyable on-court sim is hampered more than ever by the game's pay-to-win economy.
In NBA 2K24, the mainstays of MyCareer, MyTeam, and MyNBA return, and even last year's Jordan Challenge gets a pseudo-sequel in Mamba Moments, shifting the spotlight from the GOAT to Lakers legend Kobe Bryant. But Mamba Moments winds up emblematic of some of 2K24's issues: It's noticeably less interesting and less involved than that which came before it. Maybe some of that is owed to the fact that Bryant's career achievements can't quite stack up to Jordan's, so the figurative ceiling for a mode that lets you recreate some of his greatest career moments isn't going to be nearly as mesmerizing.
But even then, Mamba Moments lacks some of the attention and care this studio normally pours into its new toys. Unlike Jordan Challenge, Mamba Moments doesn't feature interview segments with players, coaches, and broadcasters who were pivotal to each chapter of the Jordan Challenge's story. Bryant's legacy mode doesn't get the same documentary-style treatment, and only about half as many games--seven--are playable this time. That makes it a shorter and less robust mode, though other fun details like era-appropriate presentation and well-researched in-game commentary remain. I was impressed when the color commentators started talking about a travel delay the Lakers suffered due to inclement weather some 20 years ago. As ever, this studio has done its homework, and it shows.
In MyNBA, the changes are similarly smaller after last year's big leap. NBA 2K23 introduced Eras, the ability to begin a franchise in previous decades with accurate rosters, rulebooks, and visual filters. NBA 2K24 returns this hopefully permanent element, but merely adds one new starting point: the LeBron Era, which highlights the arrival of NBA superteams like the Miami Heat and all that have followed in the years since. That's a worthwhile gap to fill in, but not as notable as last year's huge introduction of the idea.
To be fair, the work that is involved in the Eras feature is unique to this series, and clearly a painstaking process as well as an ultimately rewarding experience for players. Perhaps there's nowhere else to go with the idea, though, which certainly feels true of the best-in-class presentation. NBA 2K has long looked and sounded exactly like a real NBA game in a way no other sports sim really touches. Commentary is full of life and tons of variety, including multiple commentary booths, so you'll hear different voices across different games. The highlight reels, stadium atmospheres, and legitimately funny halftime shows are all remarkable, even if the series feels like it's peaked in this regard. It's an impressively accurate simulation of the way basketball is presented on television, and it's hard for me to find flaws in its approach, even though I'd have said the same thing a few years ago and little has changed in between. Against itself, NBA 2K's presentation can almost be taken for granted because of that. It's not until I jump over to other sports games where I most appreciate how well this studio replicates live basketball.
This has never been truer than it is on the court, too. This year, the 2K team is touting technology it calls ProPlay, which somehow--AI is my guess--transposes real-life NBA game footage into animations within NBA 2K24, supplementing motion-captured animations with the real thing. For years, the team has talked about how every basketball player is unique in how they move and play the sport, and why then it's a focus to accurately recreate those individuals when players control them. Given the team hasn't explained in great depth how this feature manages to do that, it's difficult for me to know how much to attribute this game's improved feel to ProPlay versus, say, the usual fine-tuning an annual sports game tends to receive anyway. But whatever the origin may be, it's obvious that this game feels great in my hands.
When I first started playing, I could sense a difference, but to really qualify it, I played 2K24 side by side with 2K23. I found that it's best felt in how body momentum is simulated. Even as a great sim in its own right, last year's game feels more arcade-like compared to this year's game. Backpedaling on a change of possession, strafing to clamp down on defense, and hitting that extra level on a fast break all now benefit from more fluidity and range, making the shiftiest players stand out even more and giving all players a more lifelike feel on the controller.
NBA 2K24 is simply a joy to play on the court. It's an impressive feat given how strong the game already felt to play before, but I liken it to how gamers tend to marvel at visuals and struggle to imagine them ever improving, only for those visuals to blatantly and dramatically improve just a few years later. Maybe in that same light, this team will find new ways to enhance presentation and the Eras features in future years--even if, for now, they've plateaued at an apparent yet impressive summit.
However, like most years in recent memory, NBA 2K24 is a great basketball sim being dragged down by its in-game economy. On one hand, this is somewhat partitioned in MyTeam, the game's card-collecting mode that allows players to slowly build (or quickly buy) fantasy teams for use in PvE and PvP modes. It's the latter mode that continues to hurt the game--the genre, really--as the mode is unapologetically pay-to-win. Players who wish to cut the line can usually buy the team they want or something similarly flawless at the cost of their bank account balances. The game's premium versions sold in stores come pre-loaded with tons of Virtual Currency (VC), which can quickly take a team from the mid-60s overall to something in the 80s, circumventing a weeks- or months-long process for a day-one fee. Plenty do this, and they quickly flood the mode with incongruous matchups as a result.
Sports games could feasibly separate the spending whales from the free-team players in matchmaking, but then that latter group wouldn't feel the urge to keep up with the Joneses and spend too, nor would the whales enjoy dominating free teams as often as they may. We're left with a lopsided player base that isn't fun, at least as someone unwilling to invest in the mode. While MyTeam Points, the game's formerly strictly earned currency, is now doled more often, that too is for sale for the first time ever, quite comically, giving players yet another way to pay their way to the front of the line and the top of the standings.
On top of that, the game introduces a new paid battle pass system that locks away some cards behind a paywall. The first season is also only six weeks long, which is considerably shorter than seasons in many of the other most popular games using battle passes, which tend to cycle through seasons roughly every 8-12 weeks. That means more paid battle passes per year, and more locked-away cards within each of them. NBA 2K is not alone in committing offenses like these, but it may be the worst offender of the sizeable group.
In The City, players make purchases, not memories.
That's because NBA 2K is uniquely equipped to perform this predatory tactic elsewhere in the game. The City (previously The Neighborhood), the MMO-like social space, has long been the live-service focal point of the game, and it's something no one else in sports gaming is yet able to match. While many players may buy the game only to play MyNBA or another mode, the game's year of updates and attractions are largely built around The City, and the community flocks to it as a result. In 2K24, The City looks like Miami but behaves like a Florida swamp, submerging players in an expensive quagmire of branding opportunities and VC that won't carry them as far as it once did.
The prime example of this is in how much VC players need to improve their player. While playing with one's created player across both The City and MyCareer will slowly reward players with VC, the trickle is much too slow for the game's lively community, so many players elect to quickly invest hundreds of thousands of VC, translating to upwards of $100, into their players. In recent years, the game's premium edition included 100,000 VC (about $50 if bought separately) and would get players to jump from a 60 overall to roughly an 84 overall depending on their player and specific build. In NBA 2K24, the same amount of VC only gets players to about 75 overall.
That means more real money will be spent by anyone hoping to skip the slow climb toward greatness and jump right into competing in the game's PvP modes like street play and Pro Am. And VC isn't just spent on improving players or fantasy teams. It can also be spent on a long list of in-game branded items from Nike, Under Armour, Adidas, and many others. The City is one part social hub where players complete daily challenges, meet up with friends, and move seamlessly between City activities and MyCareer games. But it remains a dizzying hellscape of in-game advertising, boiling player engagement down into a nightmarish shopping mall where Jake from State Farm is unfathomably your buddy and every building is named after a sports drink or shoe manufacturer. In The City, players make purchases, not memories.
For many players, everything revolves around their created athlete, and the game has nurtured such a competitive environment that there's increasingly more pressure to stay afloat with in-game spending. A keen fashion sense, while not providing a gameplay advantage, does pluck spending money out of the same pool of VC as the performance-altering boosts and stat bumps, collectively resulting in even more spending for players--and that sadly seems to be the point. For all that spending to not go nearly as far in 2K24 only amplifies the long-standing pay-to-win issues that continue to hold back this series.
Without these issues, NBA 2K would be the single best sports game on the market. But its blemishes are not minor. They poison too many parts of the game, especially those that are most important. Pay-to-win problems have reached plague-like proportions in NBA 2K24, and the good things it does don't feel as big or impressive as last year's to make up for them. While interesting iterative improvements can sometimes be greater than the sum of their parts, the in-game economy hampers much of the goodwill that may derive from elsewhere in the game. I shouldn't have to talk about money this much in a basketball game. But in this series, it's become unavoidable. NBA 2K24 feels like a game made by details-obsessed basketball experts unfortunately hamstrung by bottom-line-obsessed executives.
The appeal of Night City was in its impressive scope and dazzling visuals, which painted a bleak neon-lit future dictated by technological exploitation and unfettered capitalism. Within that were tragic, human stories to pull at your heartstrings and a whole lot of violent action often perpetuated by its gameplay systems. But what if you took the best parts of Cyberpunk 2077 and condensed them into a tight, cohesive package for a heart-wrenching political action thriller? That's what Phantom Liberty does in an expansion that seamlessly fits into the original game.
Phantom Liberty showcases the full potential of Cyberpunk 2077 with a new, captivating story about the faults of loyalty, reckoning with your past and its consequences, and self-preservation in a tech-fueled dystopia. These are familiar themes, for sure, but Phantom Liberty is intimate, raw, and earnest--all told through the lens of a strong cast of characters elevated by poignant writing and delivered through sharp performances. It's able to execute on these narrative ambitions because, more often than not, the missions that drive the plot feature top-tier action set pieces that let the revamped RPG mechanics sing, then break the pace with a variety of tense and well-crafted non-combat scenarios, which gives the experience a constant and steady momentum.
More than anything, Phantom Liberty goes above and beyond with not one, but two finales that are wildly different yet equally stunning--hell, you could even argue it's three when counting the added ending for the original story. It's a fantastic mix of nearly everything you could ask of Cyberpunk. And after taking 30 hours to experience all of its content--both main story routes, the new ending, all the side missions and gigs, and more--I can't imagine Cyberpunk 2077 without Phantom Liberty.
While you can jump straight into the new content or use a save far enough in the base game, those starting fresh will have to make it to what's roughly the halfway point, right when the original story gives you parallel main questlines. Phantom Liberty acts as another branch to main character V's search for a cure to their disease, and one that involves forces outside of Night City: federal agents who make up the new core characters, and Dogtown, a downtrodden militia-run district where most of the expansion takes place.
It's hard to ignore the starpower of famed actor Idris Elba, who lends his voice and likeness to key character Solomon Reed. He's stubborn and keeps everyone at arm's length, yet has a commanding presence in every scene he's in. But the emotional anchor is Song So Mi, aka Songbird, who's arguably the most talented netrunner in the world. Sharing the same goals as V, she provides a wonderful contrast and brings the depth required to tell a story like Phantom Liberty's. Reed and Songbird have a deep history working together as long-time FIA agents, and with V caught up in all of it, an intriguing tension constantly hangs over the political and personal drama.
And there to cut the tension is Johnny Silverhand, who's still the charismatic asshole you know and love, portrayed by and modeled after Keanu Reeves once again. Surprisingly, he gets a lot more introspective, opening up in ways that add a new dimension to his character as he relates to the events of Phantom Liberty. He's always lingering in the background and often provides sobering perspectives on the most dire situations while staying true to who he is--there's a comforting familiarity when he pops up. When you don't know who to trust or what choice to make, you can rely on Johnny to be that dickhead friend you can't help but love because, with each of his smartass one-liners, you at least know he's brutally honest.
Voice performances come alive with motion capture and animation, which benefits scenes where subtleties genuinely add a layer of nuance to these characters. Especially for a story entirely told in first-person, those high production values pay off. This confluence of writing, performance, and tech is how Reed, Songbird, Johnny, and other supporting characters are able to jump out from the screen as memorable in their most critical moments, and become unforgettable figures in Cyberpunk's world.
The new physical piece to that world is Dogtown, an independent district within Night City that's been overrun by a militia acting as the de facto government. Sprawling slums and abandoned buildings make up most of Dogtown, along with a few luxurious establishments and the lively black market within the football stadium. It's smaller in scale than the main Night City map, making it easier to familiarize yourself with the streets. But when looking across the district from the rooftops, it still gives the impression of an expansive open world. Although the harsh realities on the ground are sad to see, like a post-apocalyptic society barely scraping by, Dogtown has a distinct identity separate from Night City. Part of it is a lawless warzone, but there's another side that's genuinely human with people trying their best to eke out an existence in spite of it all.
Phantom Liberty makes great use of Dogtown, smartly embedding much of its main story and side missions within its streets. The absolute banger of an opening mission is emblematic of this design philosophy. As Songbird leads you through the stadium's black market, you get an immediate sense of the town's vibe before all hell breaks loose. Whether you're wading through battling factions in tense firefights or making elaborate plays at stealth, you can quickly see how Dogtown was made to naturally support a variety of missions and combat sequences that feel curated and intentionally designed, and that synergy is a mark of a good open world.
Gigs and side missions also litter the streets, and Phantom Liberty prioritizes quality over quantity here as well. While they are side content, gigs play an important role in the flow of the main mission since your fixer, Mr. Hands, is a crucial contact for favors that advance the story. What's more is that each gig is an elaborately designed mission rather than an objective to check off a list. These are action-packed to give them a satisfying gameplay challenge, and they're always accompanied by a heavy decision in the end, which needs to often be made in the heat of the moment. With only incomplete information of the situation at hand, the moral conundrums become more interesting as choices are rarely ever black and white. These stories paint a vivid picture of what life is like in Dogtown, where the desperation to escape poverty clashes with the very system that people rely on; a system that exploits them, grinds them, and spits them out. The results of your decisions may not lead to major revelations, but every single gig and side mission is absolutely worth doing.
Phantom Liberty also encompasses the 2.0 update for Cyberpunk, and the combat is now more exciting with explosive set pieces that bring out the best in the overhauled RPG systems. (You can read my full thoughts on the Cyberpunk 2077 2.0 update specifically, if you want all the details.) With the revamped perks and skill trees, building your character for specific playstyles can lead to dramatic effectiveness in combat. And the flexibility of the system, which expertly balances complexity and approachability, means you'll create hybrid approaches. Features like the Hack Queue make netrunner-style builds much more practical and intricate. Lightning-fast air dashes combined with blades make you a nimble, lethal target who can deflect bullets back at enemies. Stealth can also be worked into any build because the gameplay systems and level design both support it as a viable option. Cyberpunk isn't rigid, and in fact, it pushes you to create these hybrid builds to overcome Phantom Liberty's intense, challenging battles. The distinct abilities in the skill trees are so fun to mix and match, and like great RPGs do, allowing players to piece together their favorite gameplay mechanics feels natural.
The new cyberware system adds another layer to creating an effective build, letting you fine-tune your character with specific stat buffs, additional abilities, and quickhacks. Phantom Liberty introduces the Relic skill tree as well, and while it isn't particularly deep, it adds a wrinkle to the formula with new cyberware like the quickhack-infused Monowire melee weapon, or additional perks that give an upper hand for stealth or hitting enemy weak spots. Cyberpunk 2077's RPG identity is much stronger now than it was previously and Phantom Liberty's combat scenarios substantially benefit from this reinvented foundation. Together, it all results in a uniquely satisfying gameplay experience.
There was never a dull moment when it came to combat, but it's only one part of what Phantom Liberty does so well. The story draws inspiration from spy thrillers, which is easily seen in missions where you have to navigate conversations carefully under stressful situations. Infiltrating an extravagant rooftop party, then blending in as guest in order to make contact and get vital information, was a definite highlight--due in part to the lifelike atmosphere and intoxicating visual flourishes. When it came down to business, however, making sensible dialogue decisions under duress, and often doubting yourself if you made the right one, was integral to the experience.
Overall, Phantom Liberty isn't so much concerned with giving you freedom to influence outcomes on a large scale until it makes those choices clear. But even when it's on a set track with clear paths, the game is great at contextualizing your decisions to mitigate feelings of pointlessness. There are some inconsistencies in dialogue options and a few cases where I'm conflicted not with the choices I made, but in how certain characters portray specific situations and the tone they're delivered in. But otherwise, the writing is watertight and I began to care about those minor decisions as I became fully invested in the story and playing the role of my V, even if just to provoke certain responses.
The conversations at Dogtown's park overlooking the unfinished skyscrapers give you time to soak it all in. Sticking around to eavesdrop on a conversation between key characters or make a dialogue choice opens small, but rewarding opportunities to see characters in a different light. So, as wild as the action may get, there's an ever-present groundedness to the journey, making seemingly inconsequential choices add up to form a believable, personalized understanding of Phantom Liberty.
With all that laid bare, Phantom Liberty's crowning achievement is in how it executes its closing hours. With two mutually exclusive paths at a turning point in the story, the game takes some wild swings that pay off in spectacularly different ways. They'll hit you with unexpected twists that leave you questioning whether or not you did the right thing, wondering why you feel empowered yet powerless, and pondering the age-old question: What was it all for? This is one case where I implore anyone who plays this expansion to see both routes. This is because of the drastically different and superb gameplay sequences they offer, even subverting the genre expectations in one case, but more importantly, together they complete the full picture of Phantom Liberty's ambitious story.
And on top of that, the new ending for the original story earned by fulfilling certain conditions in Phantom Liberty is a cherry on top, recontextualizing the Cyberpunk journey in powerful fashion. To talk about the emotions it teased out of me would be to give away too much--but I must say that CD Projekt Red has outdone itself with this one, delivering the type of ending that very few games are able to get right.
Phantom Liberty is Cyberpunk 2077 at its best. CD Projekt Red has taken the lessons from the original release and focused on the parts that mattered most to deliver a thrilling and impactful experience that doesn't overstay its welcome. And although it fits into the original story, it leaves a lasting impact that rewrote my perception of Cyberpunk's world. From a gameplay perspective, Phantom Liberty takes full advantage of the fantastic overhaul of the RPG systems for combat, then elevates the intimate dialogue-driven elements that make it unforgettable--and does so in spectacular and inventive fashion in its conclusions. Beneath the violence and edginess, the actual cyberpunk world is always going to be about the toll on human life, and Phantom Liberty largely understands that. It's cruel, sobering, and bittersweet, and it'll stick with you well after V lays down their weapons.
NetherRealm Studios had a tall order to fill with Mortal Kombat 1. As the game is positioned as the franchise's second lore restart in 12 years, the team had to find ways to make this new era of Mortal Kombat feel as fresh and new as the storyline demanded, all while maintaining the high bar of quality the fanbase has come to expect over the series' 30-year lifespan. Mortal Kombat 1 mostly accomplishes this goal through fun new mechanics and an unpredictable storyline, but the overall package lacks the depth needed to make this a masterpiece.
Mortal Kombat 1 picks up right where MK11 Aftermath left off, with Liu Kang ascending to godhood. As the Keeper Of Time, he is able to create a new universe as he sees fit, and his creation puts familiar faces on new and interesting paths. Raiden, for instance, is no longer the all-powerful Thunder God; instead, he is a simple farmer from a small village. Every character sees some kind of fundamental change, though some are less noticeable than others.
This results in a playable roster that features only returning characters from the series' past; there's not a single brand-new fighter to be seen. However, because of the game's narrative focus, each character feels like they're new--or at the very least has some new elements to their style--which creates the sense of discovery normally reserved for brand-new faces. MK1 takes existing names and reinvents them and it's a novel idea that works really well across the majority of the characters, though some don't feel as revolutionary as they could have.
Reptile is a perfect example of a character who has changed for the better. He's still a green-clad ninja with acid spit and the ability to cloak himself, but here he leans much more heavily into his Zaterran shape-shifting abilities. The result is a marvel of animation, as he zips back and forth between the two forms at will without the game missing a beat. Conversely, Reiko--who has only appeared twice before this--is simply a strong soldier type with grapples incorporated into his moveset. It's not a bad choice, and his moves serve him well, but there aren't enough changes in his character to make him as interesting as other members of the cast.
With the story changes come new and exciting gameplay mechanics, with aerial combos being one of the smartest. Not only do combos look flashier in the air, but the variety of options stemming from this new addition offer a new kind of excitement that recent MK games lacked. Some characters have ways to chain multiple air combos together, which result in massive damage while looking cool as hell. It's the kind of mechanic that encourages players to work on their timing, as pulling off one of these is not just effective, but it feels really cool, too.
A big returning feature are the bloody, gory hallmarks of the franchise: Fatalities. The trademark finishing moves are as disgusting as ever thanks to a combination of creative killing and all-too-realistic sound effects. A few of them shocked me, and I have a higher tolerance than most for gory stuff like this. Brutalities also return, and they function exactly the same way they did before, serving as surprise end-of-match exclamation points covered in blood. This may be a new beginning for Mortal Kombat, but it still plays the classics bloody brilliantly.
The biggest new addition to MK1's combat is the Kameo assist mechanic. After I select one of the 23 playable characters, I can choose from a separate roster of fighters who act simply as extra assist characters. Most of these are characters who don't appear on the playable roster, though a few are alternate versions of playable fighters. Once a Kameo is selected, I have three additional attacks at my disposal that I can summon at any time. Kameos can help extend combos, counter enemy attacks, or provide extra mobility in a pinch. Unlike normal abilities or combos, Kameos operate on a cooldown. This ensures each Kameo activation feels important and like a real tactical consideration; considering how versatile some of these attacks are, unlimited access to them would break the game. Motaro, for example, can produce a shield to block attacks as well teleport a character around the stage. Spamming either of those abilities would make fighting against him impossible, but thanks to the cooldown, that's not a problem.
Kameos are an ingenious way to include characters in the game who wouldn't have been included otherwise. Seeing faces like Sareena on-screen, even in this limited capacity, is really cool, as she has a legion of fans who have requested to see her again for years. While it's not a fully realized character, it is an acknowledgement of her existence, and it gives me hope that more unsung heroes and villains might again see the light of day. I also love some Kameos being old-school versions of playable characters, with Sub-Zero and Scorpion being prime examples. Kameos add a fun new layer of strategy to the fighting mechanics, while also serving up some grade-A fan service with long-dormant characters.
Nearly every character in the game--playable or Kameo--is backed by amazing voice work, with most of the chosen talent oozing personality, toughness, and grit from every spoken word. One major exception, unfortunately, is the most high-profile actress in the game: Megan Fox. I do not deny she is an accomplished actress, but there is a definite difference between her voiced lines and the rest of the cast. Every word she speaks is drab and monotone, and it sounds completely out of place from the rest of the cast. In battle, it's easy to ignore--partially because someone else recorded Nitara's grunts and attack sounds--but in the campaign she sticks out like a sore thumb. I appreciate the idea of a high-profile actress coming into this blockbuster video game--especially one known for being a vampire in a movie and also having a general… vampiric vibe--but Nitara would have been better served with a voiceover that fell in line with the rest of the group--especially when NetherRealm fell into a similar trap after Ronda Rousey's performance as Sonya Blade in MK11.
The story of Mortal Kombat 1 is a fun, twisting, and unpredictable tale which culminates with some of the wildest moments in franchise history. Some story beats are ripped right from Mortal Kombat history, as a tip of the hat to those who have stuck around for all 30 years of MK's existence. Others are simply chaos in the best way; I shouted in glee multiple times during the final chapter of the campaign, particularly in one scene which I wish was double its actual length.
The decision to develop characters in all-new ways through the story is bold and works wonders. I particularly like how it explores these new approaches through character interaction, like the dynamic between Kitana and Mileena, or the choice to turn Tarkatans like Baraka from a race of savages to normal Outworlders afflicted with a debilitating disease. These new ideas ground what is otherwise a fantastical story of magic and alternate realms with a minor dose of reality, which give each scene more emotional weight.
That said, the campaign is not perfect. A few decisions stick in my craw the more I dwell on them, and one major example is what was done with Ermac. Without delving too much into spoiler territory, Ermac's whole "I'm a being filled with multiple souls" vibe receives a new wrinkle that, frankly, erases everything that was cool about him. Not only does it happen out of nowhere with little explanation--the reason this change occurs is a head scratcher--but it sticks around for the remainder of the story. It feels like this decision was made simply to give longtime fans something to chew on, but in the process it broke my immersion in the story for a while. The campaign generally does a great job of changing this world, but a few of those changes dull the affected character's impact rather than improve it.
There is one caveat to this campaign, and that's its linear nature: Once it's over, there's nothing else to be done. The final chapter does offer some variety, as you're allowed to choose your fighter and the choice in turn changes a few things about the final battle, but that's the only change. Also, that's the only choice the campaign gives you, as unlike in the previous game, you're assigned a character in each chapter rather than having some choices. Luckily, the story is good enough to make up for these shortcomings, but there's still virtually no replayability outside of the last chapter.
There are other ways to play Mortal Kombat 1 outside of the excellent campaign mode, and while these modes are fun, they don't offer the same level of interesting gameplay throughout.
Online modes included ranked, casual, and private rooms with a "winner stays on" format called King Of The Hill. I encountered very little stuttering in my online matches, which is another feather in the cap of rollback netcode. However, the lack of spectator mode in private rooms is a major step back from other fighters.
Single-player modes include the traditional towers of Arcade mode, complete with each character receiving an individual ending, and a brand-new mode called Invasion. The classic Towers feel like old-school MK in the arcades, and ascending through them still feels great. Individual character endings are short vignettes as they were in MK11, but the extra lore padding they do offers some interesting potential threads for the future. Smoke's ending, in particular, answered one of my personal burning questions about MK1 quite nicely.
Invasions, meanwhile, take place across overworld maps with players running from one objective to the next. The idea is sound, and like the campaign there's plenty of nostalgia to be had--the security code to Cage's mansion, for instance, is "ABACABB," aka the code to enable blood in the Sega Genesis version of the original MK, which is a nice touch.
However, most "stages" on these maps contain a single one-round fight, which means that the majority of the stages can be completed in 10-15 seconds. There are modifiers in some matches, like the occasional extra obstacle thrown at me, but they don't do much to enhance the experience. There's very little challenge here, particularly in later areas when I've been able to gain powerful Talismans and Relics to enhance my abilities, and it starts to feel like a grind. Compared to MK11's offerings--the Krypt, which was a sprawling dungeon packed with unlockables and hidden secrets, and the Towers Of Time, which offered new ideas for the classic tower format--Invasions seems like a letdown. There's some fun to be had, but the grindy feeling and lack of variety in the matches make this mode feel less impactful from those of its predecessor.
There is a lot to enjoy about this new era of NetherRealm's top fighting game. Mortal Kombat 1 casts a much-needed set of fresh eyes across its lore, which reinvents the roster in new and interesting ways. Not every choice works, both in character design and development, but the ones that do make an immediate impact. Fighting with these new characters is awesome thanks to air combos and Kameos, even if the modes outside of campaign leave something to be desired. The future of Mortal Kombat is bright, and MK1 marks the first step on that new path. I just hope the next chapter gives me more to sink my teeth into.
There's no shortage of Souls-likes vying for our attention, but only one can claim to put a dark and twisted spin on the everlasting story of Pinocchio. Developed by South Korean studio Neowiz Games, Lies of P presents a very loose retelling of Italian author Carlo Collodi's 1883 novel The Adventures of Pinocchio. This grim reimagining, combined with a striking Belle Epoque-infused setting, ensures that Lies of P's aesthetic stands apart from other Souls-likes, including From Software's own. Bloodborne is still a clear inspiration, as its tonal atmosphere and combat design call to mind the cosmic horror masterpiece, leading to it feeling overly derivative at times. Still, Neowiz also implements just enough originality for Lies of P to eke out its own identity, even if it's as thin as a puppet string.
The story sees you take on the role of P, a lifelike puppet who wakes up amidst the carnage of a puppet-led invasion of the fictional city of Krat. If you're familiar with Pinocchio, you'll likely recognize character names such as the puppet-maker Geppetto and the talking cricket Gemini. Their names are usually where the similarities end, however--either in relation to the book or any Disney-produced retellings. For one, Gemini isn't an anthropomorphic insect but rather a tiny puppet caged in a lantern on P's belt, acting as both a guide and source of light. Similarly, characters like the Fox, Cat, and Alidoro are reimagined as common criminals and thieves, who don their respective animal masks in order to achieve both anonymity and infamy.
It's this unique take on a familiar tale that makes Lies of P such an intriguing proposition, so it's hard not to feel disappointed when the story doesn't kick into gear until close to its final act. For the most part, you're tasked with visiting various locations where you'll need to either rescue someone or defeat a specific enemy before returning to the game's central hub. Without an overarching goal to propel you forward, it feels unfocused and only attains a sense of momentum in its final few hours once the antagonist reveals themself. There's very little to latch onto before this point, outside of a curiosity to see where the narrative could potentially go. It's not a case where the game is holding back and being intentionally opaque either. The story is predominantly told via expositional dumps and there's little sense of mystery as a result. There are interesting moments dotted throughout but they're fleeting, and I don't think it's too harsh to expect more considering the source material.
Lies of P also features a morality system that occasionally asks you to make a choice between two options: Tell the truth or lie. Puppets can't lie--it's baked into their programming--but as we all know, Pinocchio is special in this regard. The lies you tell are almost never hurtful or deceitful; you lie to provide comfort rather than confront someone with an uncomfortable truth. One such example lets you ease a dying mother's worry by telling her that her (dead) child is still alive and well, so these choices aren't particularly difficult to make. The decision you choose will mostly depend on which branching path you're eager to see play out. Every time you lie, P's springs react--he becomes more human--so I exclusively lied throughout my playthrough to see what effect this would have on either the story or gameplay. I won't spoil the changes I encountered but overall the mechanic didn't feel well used. Neowiz says there are three different endings to unlock, which are affected in some way by how honest you are, but aside from attaining different rewards, it's tough to say how much of the game is impacted by your choices without replaying the whole thing again.
Nevertheless, the morality system and the story's shortcomings are lessened somewhat by Lies of P's setting and fantastic sense of place. Each location you visit is sprinkled with interesting lore and visual storytelling, and the game's art design and foreboding atmosphere combine to give the city of Krat an unmistakable personality. The prospect of venturing further into its haunting bowels was all the motivation I needed to push on.
Krat's Belle Epoque-era aesthetic is immediately evocative of 19th-century France, right down to the snippets of Bal-musette music that still linger, like echoes of the city's former glory. Back before the events of the game, Krat was a city of marvels. The invention of animatronic puppets gave rise to a period of prosperity that's evident throughout, as Neowiz meshes its historical setting with notable steampunk flourishes. After flying too close to the sun, however, the city's affluence has been shattered by what survivors are calling The Puppet Frenzy. This mysterious affliction has turned the once-docile puppets against the city's denizens in violent fashion. Blood-stained bodies now litter the cobblestone streets, while bags of luggage are strewn next to carriages and across train platforms as evidence of those trying to escape the fallen metropolis.
Gaslit street lamps and glaring signs for theater productions cast light on the gloomy aftermath, as twitchy, clockwork puppets emerge from the shadows wielding battered stop signs and candelabras as makeshift weapons. Lies of P oozes atmosphere at nearly every turn, whether you're traversing through Krat's bleeding heart or wading through the ominous forests and scrap yards on its outskirts. The striking visuals aren't just for show either, as it's melded into excellent level design that adopts the strongest aspects of the genre. There's obvious care and attention put into enemy variety and placement, and locations tend to corkscrew back on themselves, rewarding your exploration with vital shortcuts via ladders and unlocked doors.
Lies of P's basic framework is also familiar, latching onto many of the genre's long-standing hallmarks. Stargazers act as Bonfires; Ergo is an upgrade resource you attain by defeating enemies; you lose Ergo when you die, unless you're able to return to the site of your demise and reclaim it; the leveling system is stat-based, which has an additional impact on weapon buffs; and Neowiz even has a penchant for bombarding you with giant rolling balls, turning any incline into a potential threat.
Combat, meanwhile, shares a number of elements in common with Bloodborne. Encounters are fast-paced and emphasize being active and pushing the advantage. You can block attacks, which chips away at both your stamina and health bar, but immediately retaliating lets you regain your lost health. This quickly establishes that it pays to be aggressive, even if you initially adopt a defensive front. Parrying incoming attacks is more effective, however, since it negates all incoming damage, but doing so is much harder to consistently pull off. The timing window is strict and demands that you learn an enemy's attack patterns and cadence, especially when facing one of the game's fearsome bosses. It's worth achieving some level of proficiency, though, because perfect parries also inflict break damage, sending enemies into a staggered state that leaves them open to a deadly critical strike.
Timing, rather than positioning, is key to staying alive, yet this approach turns most encounters--but especially boss fights--into lessons in pattern-learning. The enemies you come up against enjoy messing with your rhythm, hesitating for what feels like a second too long on overhand swings, or throwing in an unexpected attack at the end of a combo. This presents a fun challenge but does feel a tad rigid. Nailing a perfectly timed parry is immensely satisfying, though, with each successful block producing an outpouring of incandescent sparks. Combat, in general, is thrilling throughout. Weapons feel weighty and collide with a delightful thud, discharging a gush of oil that covers P from head to toe. It's punishing as well, to the point where even the lowliest enemies can send you to an early grave if you're not focused. However, the difficulty curve never falls into the trap of feeling unfair. Its challenge increases gradually and I can't say I ever encountered any moments where it felt too easy or too difficult, even if a few bosses stumped me for lengthy periods. From a gameplay perspective, Lies of P is a Souls-like in the purest sense, and an accomplished one at that.
Unlike the city's other puppets, which are typically designed with specific functions in mind--think maids, police officers, and miners--P is malleable and can be tinkered with. His left arm, for instance, is home to a variety of secondary weapons, from a Scorpion-esque grappling hook to a mine launcher and flamethrower--fulfilling a similar purpose as Sekiro's prosthetic arm. This system is limiting, to a certain extent, since you can only switch between your various arms when resting at a checkpoint, and while it doesn't allow for the same variety of build options as a From Software game, each one adds a small measure of customization to the game.
Despite this, you're still given a healthy degree of freedom when it comes to picking a weapon. Each weapon in the game--with the exception of those acquired from fallen bosses--consists of two distinct components: the head and the handle. The head can be anything from an exploding pickaxe to a saber blade, and this dictates the weapon's attack and guard attributes as well. Meanwhile, the handle affects the weapon's stat-scaling and move set. By using the weapon assembly feature, you can mix and match these two components to create a plethora of unique killing tools.
Maybe you'll transform a halberd from a thrusting weapon to a slashing weapon, or alter a strength-based weapon so that it scales with dexterity. Both the head and handle of each weapon also contain a disparate Fable Art--special attacks you can unleash after building up enough Fable energy by damaging opponents. Fable Arts can take the form of a single devastating maneuver, a flurry of consecutive strikes, or even bolster your defensive capabilities for a short while. Being able to pair different Fable Arts adds another layer of flexibility to the weapon assembly system's near-limitless variety.
There are a few other specks of originality sprinkled in. When you die and lose your Ergo, for instance, the amount left diminishes each time you sustain damage when attempting to retrieve it. This isn't a massive change, but it adds some extra tension to those moments when you're forced to carefully retrace your steps.
For the most part, however, Lies of P is content to adorn existing mechanics and ideas with its own story and aesthetic. This may be a derivative approach, but it nails the core Souls-like experience, with each of its various mechanics seamlessly coalescing to create a thrilling action game that's challenging, varied, and dripping with atmosphere. It's easy to be reductive when a game wears its influences on its sleeve as boldly as Lies of P does, but plenty of other games have tried and failed to recreate the same magic. It's not an easy endeavor, and while it doesn't shake up the formula or reinvent the wheel, Lies of P is still one of the genre's most accomplished and enjoyable entries--and that's the truth.
nan
It's hard to ponder the infinite possibilities of space and not get romantic about it. Our imagination of the cosmos has taken many artistic forms, and the hard science behind the greatest discoveries on the final frontier has been just as enthralling. It's this sense of wonder that makes the prospect of Starfield so intriguing--even more so than if it were just Bethesda Game Studios' next major RPG. However, it's best to cast aside that love and fascination with space because, at its core, Starfield follows a very familiar formula without meaningfully engaging with its setting or the gameplay systems therein.
Starfield is undoubtedly impressive in scale, from the sheer number of star systems and planets you can explore to the multitude of gameplay mechanics that tie the experience together. But once you start to see how all these big ideas are interconnected from a narrative perspective and technical standpoint, the illusion of a grand cosmic voyage shatters and the veneer starts to wear thin. And so, somewhere along my 55 or so hours spent playing Starfield, I dropped the notion of finding that wondrous space adventure and accepted Starfield for what it is: a shooter-focused RPG in the traditional Bethesda framework that has its wild and fun moments but one that's ultimately a mile wide and an inch deep.
Starfield's main quest is the most emblematic of the game's shortcomings. Despite romanticizing the idea of taking to the stars to explore the great unknown, these narrative ambitions fall into shallow stories that undersell the spacefaring premise. You start as a lowly miner extracting resources for a faceless corporation and within minutes, come in contact with an "Artifact" that activates mysterious visions of something bigger out in the galaxy--a sort of leaving-the-vault moment like in Fallout. You're then shuffled into the ranks of a small organization called Constellation, whose sole purpose is to chase these Artifacts and uncover their purpose. With the handful of characters who make up the group, Starfield tries to instill personality into its story, but consistently weak writing and generic dialogue means these characters--who do have a few interesting moments along the way--largely fall flat.
It's especially tough to buy into the Artifact-collecting scenario when the game's story extolls the virtues of science, yet undermines them by haphazardly throwing around scientific concepts in dialogue and then resorting to inexplicable supernatural forces that everyone in-game seems to just accept at face value. There's very little weight or impact given to what characters often describe as great discoveries that could change the course of history, and it's missing an earnest examination on the nature of humanity's place in space, even when it tries to be self-reflective. I was never asking Starfield to lecture me on quantum physics, but I hoped for a story that wants to pay reverence to the scientific philosophies that make the genre intriguing to give those concepts their necessary respect.
The wild goose chase that is the main quest lacks strong motivations from a narrative perspective, and the mission structure mostly relies on a predictable formula. You're often shooting your way through mining facilities to dig up Artifacts your colleagues happened to locate halfway across the galaxy, which involves taking down space pirates because you need someone to shoot. Or you're fast-traveling to faraway star systems to fetch clues on the next objective, follow laughably nonsensical riddles, or have conversations that could've been an email. There are occasional breaks in this process that lead to notable moments, such as having to navigate the grimey underbelly of the cyberpunk-inspired city of Neon, where all the dystopian archetypes thrive.
Engaging in tense conversations offer some variance in the moment-to-moment beats but the outcomes are largely the same, like when I had to resolve a bank robbery on a remote planet that resembled the American Old West, or cut a deal with a space pirate for an important item I needed--you'd be surprised how far a simple Persuasion check can get you, yet how little the game cared if it went one way or another. If the situation devolved into a shootout, the people around town would barely bat an eye or give a tangible response to the fact that I resorted to violence.
These kinds of moments highlight the illusion of choice, where supposed moral quandaries boil down to vague differences in philosophy, and this extends across the story and through the final encounters with Starfield's main antagonists. Towards the end, the main quest legitimately started to shine by setting aside its RPG-light storytelling and embracing being a full-on shooter. One sequence borrows inspiration from Titanfall 2's Effect and Cause mission, and a late-game mission tested the limits of my combat prowess with satisfying challenge. And despite the underwhelming revelations leading up to the conclusion, Starfield does have a moment of brilliance in how it lets you end your journey, contextualizing New Game+ in one of the most interesting ways I've seen while offering a few noteworthy incentives for a second run.
As is tradition with Bethesda games, however, the golden path questline is not exactly the main course, and it's in the side quests where Starfield is at its best. Here, you set aside the wonders of the great unknown and instead dive into the problems of various factions and the people who've settled in the few cities and towns scattered across the galaxy.
One such example is the Crimson Fleet faction questline, where the de facto galactic government coerces you into going undercover inside space's biggest criminal ring--and this chain of quests is one of the finest in a Bethesda RPG. It's not so much the ethical dilemmas or tension you feel when bouncing between the two factions, but the fact you find yourself in the middle of some wild situations like corporate disputes, intense shootouts, blackmailing characters, and infiltrating high-security facilities. Compelling subplots emerge in the process that also tie back to the quest at hand, and you're hit with some exceptional setpieces that incorporate multiple facets of Starfield's gameplay systems at a steady pace. I even found myself conflicted when making final decisions since certain side characters began to grow on me. Once the dust settled, I moved on with trekking the galaxy, constantly searching for the same high.
Not every optional questline matches that scope and depth, but there are certainly rare flashes of similar quality. Getting caught up in megacorp Ryujin Industries' messy business by starting as a rank-and-file employee then meddling in its affairs from the inside was worth seeing through for the corporate drama. Playing space deputy for the Freestar Collective, on the other hand, wasn't as intriguing per se. It turned out to be predictable on the whole, but it took me to new locations, featured some fun firefights, and offered valuable rewards. Although a bit superficial, helping a ship full of people who never made human contact after leaving Earth hundreds of years ago brought me to a resort-style planet to deal with a greedy CEO, and ultimately gave me the chance to find those in need a new home.
Side content comes in varying degrees of quality, but these are the kinds of rabbit holes you want to fall down; they are what make Starfield worth unraveling, even if the process often feels like a checklist of objectives to blaze through. And at times, they culminate in something almost meaningful. At the same time, the setting starts to seem superficial as it's less about life on the cosmic frontier and more about petty human problems that are just by-the-book extensions of what we deal with on Earth. While they don't give the impression of having major impacts on the galaxy's fate, or explore topics of technology and corporate exploitation impacting human life with much depth, side content is dealt out in droves, and the potential of finding something special propelled me to keep perusing the galaxy in hopes of discovering a worthwhile thread.
Through these various questlines--main story and side content alike--the limitations of Starfield's RPG elements came to light. Dialogue options evoke slightly different responses or tease more information, but rarely influence the overarching path. Once you see the machinations, you can gauge what you can get away with and realize quests stay on a set track. You may get the opportunity to use the arbitrary Persuasion check, which breaks off as a minigame awkwardly detached from the actual conversation at hand, or bribe your way past objectives, but those exist as shortcuts to the same end result.
However, there's still a sense of building your character and progression since you can pick permanent traits at the start and earn skill points as you level up. The skill tree streamlines the perks, stats, and traits of previous Bethesda RPGs which makes sense because Starfield isn't really concerned with giving you multiple avenues to solve problems or complete objectives. There aren't really "builds," rather game mechanics you'll want to prioritize like damage for specific weapon-types, lockpicking, persuasion success rate, or whatever you deem important engaging with.
Starfield picks up some of that slack when it becomes a shooter thanks to satisfying gunplay and a roster of varied weapons to tinker with. While you shouldn't expect the feel of, say, Destiny 2, the shooting in Starfield is by far the best Bethesda has offered. Especially when I was zipping around with my jetpack in a big firefight, melting robots with a tricked-out laser rifle before switching to a punchy auto-shotgun to thin out space pirates or blast away intimidating creatures, it was hard to deny Starfield's chops as a shooter. When combat clicks and sustains the intensity in high-level shootouts, it mitigates the sting of the shallow RPG systems in place.
The spacefaring fantasy wouldn't be complete without your own ship to pilot in dogfights. Ship combat can be frustrating at times, and having to manually allocate a pool of resources to specific functions of your ship on the fly--like engine speed, weapon power, and shield potency--takes some getting used to. But, as I got more involved in earning new ships, upgrading my piloting skills, and buying better parts, I became more satisfied with engaging in ship combat, especially against imposing enemy fleets who I also had to outmaneuver to take down. They're straightforward encounters, but some quests will force you into these scenarios with some dramatic narrative context, which helps it feel like less of an afterthought.
While I do appreciate having a spaceship as a means to break up the pace and add variety with combat, piloting one also highlights the segmented nature of how you actually navigate Starfield's worlds. Presumably for convenience's sake, trekking across the galaxy is relegated to strings of fast travel points. You pull up your starmap, chart the course, jump to a planet's low orbit, then select largely predetermined landing points on the surface. There's a lack of seamlessness since each step in the process is broken into multiple steps where you're mostly pulling up menus, watching short scene transitions, and sitting through loading screens. It's worth noting that you don't actually fly to planets in real-time, and flying in space is sort of an instanced bubble with nearby planets in the background. All this creates the feeling that Starfield's universe is rather small and, very quickly, I'd treat planets as a collection of fast-travel points, disjointed stand-ins for individual towns or cities.
Impressively massive metropolises like New Atlantis or dense and interesting cities like Neon are peppered throughout the journey, but unlike in the Elder Scrolls or Fallout games, there isn't a build-up to discovering them. This is due in part to the absence of a larger overworld that can be used to pique interest and stoke curiosity, leading players to have that moment of unveiling new locations. Instead, it's the menus that funnel players directly into these locations, eliminating the sense of awe and wonder that comes from stumbling upon them. And even finding your way around these places is a pain with the near-complete absence of a local map system--I became familiar enough with the pathways to find key locations in frequently visited places, but it's a major oversight that in a space-traveling future, we can't get a halfway decent map of the most populated settlements.
Though very limited from a gameplay perspective, space exploration is still novel in Starfield, harkening back to the hours I spent in Mass Effect's galaxy maps out of sheer curiosity. Pulling up the starmap to see a hundred-something planets is stunning, and I still love being overwhelmed by the view of a new planet from my ship in low orbit and reading its data as if it's a real place. However, the sense of discovery is dulled when I'm often landing on barren planets, slogging my way across them on foot only to find the same mining facility or research laboratory I found halfway across the galaxy on another planet.
One consolation is being able to build your own outposts on habitable planets, which is an endeavor for those who want to get into setting up mining operations for resource collecting and using the research mechanics to unlock new items. Starfield borrows from Fallout 4 and Fallout 76 in this regard, and the systems and inventory management are as cumbersome as ever. But from the few hours I spent delving into building my own outpost on a remote planet in the far reaches of space, I saw the value of establishing an ecosystem even if it's only for the sake of creating intricate settlements for myself and crewmates I've recruited to help with the operation.
There are a ton of interconnected systems that make up Starfield's overall gameplay experience, so in a way, it's surprising to see how it comes together with relative polish. Bethesda RPGs have a reputation for being buggy--and don't get me wrong, Starfield has its fair share of bugs--but I've mostly encountered rather inoffensive glitches like floating eyeballs or characters clipping through walls or getting stuck in place, which were fixed by reloading or rebooting the game. Across my 55-plus hours, I jumped between a high-end PC, a minimum-spec laptop, and both Xbox Series X and S. Starfield is a demanding game and you'll get some frame drops in densely populated areas or in the heat of battle where particle effects fill up the screen, yet the game always managed to stay playable on reasonable graphics settings. The 30fps cap on consoles is a bit disappointing, but the most important part is that it held a consistent frame rate throughout.
Accounting for all its ups and downs, the main thing I wrestle with is that Starfield is missing an overall sense of purpose. My favorite RPGs have their fair share of shortcomings and limitations, but the best ones always leave a lasting impact that comes through having a clear purpose. Even my favorite Bethesda RPGs do this well. Morrowind, Oblivion, and Skyrim have intricate magic systems, cultures to familiarize yourself with, and rewards for exploration in whichever direction you wander in. Obsidian's Fallout: New Vegas drops you in a barren desert wasteland as a nobody, yet is so full of personality, humor, and sobering examinations of the human condition in the wake of a societal collapse. I can't help but feel Starfield banked on the intrigue of space exploration and the vastness of the cosmos, and forgot to create an identity beyond that.
Despite the nigh-limitless possibilities the final frontier offers, Starfield's version of humanity remains largely homogeneous--300 or so years into the future across the galaxy, and the game's imagination rarely extends beyond the sci-fi archetypes we've seen many a time. It doesn't have much to say about humanity leaving Earth behind and doesn't really reckon with the realities that dictate the world--our world--that inspires its very premise. In the periphery, you can learn about how life is sustainable across the galaxy or tease out lore on how governments and religions evolved, but Starfield struggles to integrate that into its core ethos. I didn't come in expecting something poetic like the Carl Sagan books I read growing up, awe-inspiring like The Outer Wilds, or as intricate as the sci-fi lore built over the course of the Mass Effect trilogy. But I did want something more than the pared-down Bethesda template transposed over a space setting.
Starfield has its moments, for sure. Its satisfying gunplay makes combat exciting, especially when it's integrated into setpieces within its better, more captivating questlines. And although limited in its conception of space exploration, there's a novelty in poking around the galaxy to see star systems up close and personal, and occasionally finding side content worth chasing. However, it struggles to deliver a cohesive and memorable RPG experience amid the seemingly boundless sea of stars. For all its reverence for scientific philosophy, its stories and characters paint a rather tame and sterile vision for what our spacefaring future could look like. When you strip Starfield down to its essentials, it relies on a tried-and-true, but well-tread formula while missing some of the depth of the games that came before it. Starfield is a game more concerned with quantity than quality, and leaves the experience at the surface level.
Rubicon 3, the setting for Armored Core VI: Fires of Rubicon, is a far cry from the likes of Lordran and The Lands Between, immediately establishing a striking sci-fi aesthetic that's unlike anything From Software has created in the past decade. Lessons learned from the studio's most recent output are evident in Armored Core VI, but don't go in expecting this to be Dark Souls with mechs. The sixth numbered entry in the series is a decidedly Armored Core game, meshing exciting mech-on-mech action with the highly customizable assembly of your giant robot. It's a game for the die-hards but also represents the most approachable game in the series thus far--one that sees From Software return to its roots in triumphant fashion.
Though Rubicon 3 might be able to sustain human life, it's still an incredibly hostile place. Occupying corporations wage war against each other, local resistance fighters, and a governmental space force, for control of the planet and its valuable resources. Dilapidated cities, arid deserts, and frozen wastelands serve as the battlefields for mechanized warfare, as missiles, bullets, and laser cannons frequently collide with steel. Even the planet itself is imposing. Giant metallic structures stretch thousands of feet into the sky and then spread outwards like branches, each one carpeted in blinking lights that replace the stars they're obscuring. When you do catch a glimpse of the sky, you'll notice pockets of the planet's atmosphere burning red like fire.
The reason Rubicon 3 is such a hotbed of action is because it's home to Coral. This mysterious substance is immensely valuable, causing a number of extraplanetary corporations to descend upon the planet in an all-out war to harness it. You enter the fray as an independent mercenary employed by the enigmatic Handler Walter, who orders you to complete jobs on behalf of whichever faction is willing to pay. Referred to only as 621 or your callsign, Raven, the story in Armored Core VI has an oddly impersonal feel. Much of the narrative is delivered through audio on a static screen, with nary a human face in sight. Being a silent protagonist also makes it difficult to escape the feeling that you're a puppet for those pulling the strings. This is seemingly intentional, although the story never quite delves deep enough into this feeling of detachment to say anything meaningful. Most of the characters are fairly cliched, even if the voice acting is generally entertaining, and while there are interesting aspects to the lore, the story is ultimately disappointing without ever being particularly bad.
The narrative does afford you a degree of agency at times, as you're occasionally asked to choose between two missions for two different factions, thus creating a branching path that affects both future missions and the game's ending. This adds replayability to future playthroughs, although it's in new game plus where this feature comes into its own. Armored Core VI doesn't quite venture down the Nier: Automata route, but it opts for a similar vibe. New missions appear during new game plus, while familiar quests are altered, adding extra choices that can change how they play out. These surprises make the campaign worth playing again if you weren't already itching to dive back in.
Once you've settled into the cockpit of a titular Armored Core, the first thing that jumps out is how easy Armored Core VI is to pick up and play. Your mech can be equipped with up to four weapons at once, each one assigned to a different shoulder button. You can jump, perform a quick dodge both on the ground and in the air, and engage an assault boost that resembles a sprint--propelling you forward with the type of g-force that presumably makes it look like you've aged about 30 years. There's a familiarity to the controls that's comparable to other third-person shooters, but that's where most comparisons end. Much like Armored Core IV, there's a focus on speed and maneuverability, to the point where even the heaviest mechs are able to glide across the battlefield with relative ease. Movement feels fluid and responsive, and although you can't stay suspended in the air indefinitely, you can remain airborne for a good while before needing to land. Combine this with the ability to fire four weapons concurrently, and you've got the makings of an exhilarating combat style that rarely eases off.
Game director Masaru Yamamura previously served as the primary combat designer on Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, so this approach doesn't come as much of a surprise. Sekiro's brazen DNA is evident in Armored Core VI's combat ethos. There's an emphasis on adopting an aggressive combat style that's derived from your mech's mobility and firepower, but also the game's stagger mechanic. Each successful attack on an enemy combatant applies strain to their Attitude Control System (ACS). When this gauge fills up, it causes them to stagger and freeze in place, giving you a brief window with which to inflict more damage than your shots normally would. If you let up at any point, the strain on their ACS gradually declines, so you're incentivized to push the action and remain on the front foot. This creates a precarious balancing act since your mech has its own ACS that abides by the same ruleset. In some instances, it might be wise to disengage and find cover until your own strain declines, or opt to continue pushing the pace in the hopes of staggering your opponent first.
Most of the rank-and-file enemy types you encounter are literal cannon fodder and explode after one or two hits, so the stagger mechanic only comes into play against particularly menacing foes. Armored Core VI maintains the mission structure of previous games in the series, with each chapter containing a mixture of story and side quests within self-contained levels. These missions are wonderfully varied, whether you're fighting mechs on a frozen lake or climbing up the side of a weaponized mining ship that dwarfs your Armored Core with its monumental scale.
The bulk of the fighting takes place against regular enemies, while mini-bosses regularly appear and boss fights punctuate certain missions by bumping up the difficulty with a memorable clash. Much of the game acts as a power fantasy that sees you lay waste to dozens of enemies without breaking a sweat before a boss shows up and knocks you down a peg or two. These battles present a challenge consistent with From Software's previous work, but these erratic difficulty spikes create an odd juxtaposition with the rest of the game, even if it makes sense within the game's lore--since the Armored Cores are much more advanced than the standard, mass-produced mechs populating the battlefield. It never feels like the game adequately prepares you for facing a genuine threat, which can make the opening hours frustrating at times when you suddenly hit a boss-shaped roadblock.
Fortunately, Armored Core VI is still more approachable than the series has been in the past. For one, there are numerous training missions to partake in that explain everything from the basic controls and combat fundamentals to the differences between a tetrapod AC and a reverse-jointed AC. Crucially, it does this by giving you the opportunity to try out various loadouts and get a feel for how each one functions and differentiates itself from the others.
Assembling your Armored Core is as crucial to success as mastering the game's combat mechanics. Rather than leveling up, progression is tied to acquiring new parts and using them to create a distinct mech that's wholly your own. From Software wisely holds off on immediately paralyzing you with too much choice as new parts are unlocked gradually, and you can sell parts back for the same price you bought them, encouraging you to frequently experiment and try new builds. Eventually, your options increase tenfold and you can create Armored Cores that feel significantly different from one another. You might opt for dual-wielding machine guns or mini-guns, equip a plasma rifle in one hand and a shotgun in the other, or forgo guns completely in favor of a pulse shield and laser sword combo. When it comes to body parts, there are fluctuations in weight and armor between the multitude of heads, arms, torsos, and legs you can equip. Boosters have tangible effects on dodge speed and leap ability, while chipsets alter how effective your missile lock-on is at different ranges. You can't just slap anything together and hope it works either. Each loadout must adhere to weight and energy restrictions so you can't, say, rock up with a lightweight mech equipped with four bulky cannons.
This establishes a balance and forces you to consider the pros and cons of each build, and it's here where the marriage between assembly and combat really shines. The first time you fight a boss is typically a learning experience. I defeated a couple of bosses on the first attempt, but most of the time I had to re-assess and experiment with different builds to counteract their unique properties. The Juggernaut, for instance, is one of the game's early bosses--a massive tank that's impervious to damage from the front thanks to its armor plating. Circling around to attack it from the back and sides is the only way to inflict damage, but it's surprisingly nimble for its size, frequently deploying its huge thrusters to outmaneuver you. It's entirely possible to beat the Juggernaut by constantly positioning yourself behind its impenetrable armor, but I expedited the process by also equipping a vertical rocket launcher. Rather than firing a barrage of missiles in a straight line, this variant launches each armament upwards so they would come hurtling out of the sky and impact behind the Juggernaut's defenses. Beating a boss is incredibly satisfying on its own, but especially after you've found a way to adapt and alter your build to do so.
Armored Core VI represents a new beginning for the long-running series. It still remains true to From Software's original vision, but the whole experience has been refined to welcome an audience that cut its teeth on the studio's most recent work. Its story is a letdown and there may be some early growing pains due to its lopsided approach, but these shortcomings quickly scurry to the back of your mind once you start weaving your fully customized mech between incoming attacks while unleashing a salvo of rocket fire, sword swipes, and plasma rounds.
Put a few humans in outer space for a story set in the future and the result always seems to be that nothing will go their way. That's once again the broad strokes of this latest space thriller, Fort Solis, but the intrigue, as ever, is in the details. Developer Fallen Leaf does a good job of hiding the satisfying answers to its central mysteries up to the very end, which makes its story consistently absorbing even as some of its gameplay elements betray its own Hollywood-inspired intentions.
Fort Solis is a third-person adventure game that tells a story reminiscent of Moon and 2001: A Space Odyssey. It's slow, sometimes to a fault, and more concerned with its message and themes than action set-pieces. That doesn't mean it's a low-stakes tale. On the contrary, the secrets tucked away in Fort Solis are existential, but it's expressed through the eyes of a small cast of interesting characters whom you'll get to know over the game's five-hour story.
Fort Solis has AAA aspirations, and it shows quite clearly in a few ways. For one, the game looks gorgeous. Built in Unreal Engine and presenting gameplay in an over-the-shoulder style, it would be easy to mistake this indie for the next big-budget cinematic thriller. That's further solidified by its exceptional cast headlined by Roger Clark and Troy Baker, but the complete cast of about 10 or so people is just as well-written and with great performances to match. Clark's Leary and Julia Brown's Jessica Appleton do well to color in the world in the first hour, including their own characters who would otherwise be amorphous Mars transplants in drab uniforms.
In Fort Solis' vision of the year 2080, we've yet to occupy Mars as a species, but corporations have made it a mining and research hub. I bet you can guess how that's going. As a skeleton crew stays behind to work what is essentially a weeks-long graveyard shift on the red planet, a distress call across the facility alerts Jack Leary to an issue within the titular research lab. The game ramps up its drama at a pace that pulled me right in, where early chit-chat and jokes over the radio with Appleton, soon grew more stressed as doors appeared sabotaged, then dire as bodies started to pile up.
Paced to unfold like a mini-series meant to be marathoned, the central question of what happened on Fort Solis is expertly hidden from full view for nearly the entire game. It's presented in a virtual one-shot style without any loading screens, doling out the next dangling thread at a pace that kept me both guessing and playing. I was impressed by how well it shielded the truth of the matter while simultaneously drip-feeding a lot of details over time. It does this largely through video-gamey methods: optional audio and video logs as well as emails.
Though that approach is far from novel, it feels justified in this universe where workers are recording messages to send back to their families on Earth, or cataloging some of the facility's recent dangers to cover their own liability concerns. This ample number of optional clues led me to carefully examine everything I could find--for example, not just the words in an email, but the date it was sent, who wrote it, and whether I'd already seen the other side of the conversation. I was trying to reveal the magician's prestige before they presented it to me. I never did figure it out any sooner than I was meant to, which kept me engaged and ultimately satisfied.
Like in a lot of games, it does feel like the story demands you dig through many of these optional clues to have it all make sense. According to in-game stats, I found 92% of all video logs, audio logs, and emails which collectively help flesh out the story considerably, but it seems a few more important details are hiding in that last 8%. Still, I also sense that some of the game's answers aren't found even there, and as someone who enjoys a lingering mystery, I happily made peace with that outcome.
There are likely branches you might expect this story to travel down, such as hostile aliens, rogue AI, madness by way of isolation--the usual suspects of a creepy space station. I won't spoil anything here, but I will say that Fort Solis is both structured unlike other stories in this popular subgenre and also lands on a story that feels novel, while still keeping intact some of the more popular themes of dystopian futures. Its dramatic unveiling in the final act is both threatening on a massive scale and also so innocuous in its original intent that it's actually tragic.
As some in the real world consider the prospect of colonizing Mars, Fort Solis examines why that's even on the table, what pitfalls that might include, and how even well-meaning people can cause catastrophe when we're grappling with the cosmos. It blurs the lines between heroes and villains in asking these questions, making characters complex and its ethical argument nuanced.
Those strengths helped me push through some of the game's more frustrating bits related to its gameplay mechanics. Fort Solis is an adventure game, closer to something like Firewatch--complete with the woman on the radio chatting with you as you investigate anomalies--than it is Dead Space. There's nothing wrong with that, but there are a few missteps in its execution.
For one, your character moves slowly to the point of frustration. This worsens when the game opens up, allowing for more exploration. I wanted to turn over every figurative stone so I didn't miss a clue as to what I was piecing together, but this often meant trekking slowly across expansive areas looking for interaction points where my character would comment on them. It was at its worst when I did all that slow walking and found nothing in various corners in the environment, leaving me empty-handed after wasting a few minutes at a time.
It's as though the game wants to maintain control of its pacing and not let players run wildly across the terrain while its story is telling much more of a slow-burn sci-fi tale. I can appreciate that creative direction, but I still feel there was room to speed up player movement without sacrificing the cinematic presentation. Given that backtracking is sometimes built right into the story by way of the titular fort's tiered security clearance system you'll figuratively climb across its four chapters, this issue is blatant right away and only gets in the way more as the game goes on. For all the apparent want of a properly paced story, the slow movement speed hurts it more than a jog button would have.
Even when you're going in the right direction, gameplay mechanics remain light. You'll have to solve some basic puzzles and nail a few quick-time-event sequences--or not, as there seems to be no penalty for failure. But for the most part, you'll just want to head in the right direction, as suggested by the story and the smartphone-like object strapped to your wrist. This makes gameplay less involved than even a Telltale game, as here there are no choices to be made, neither in the plot nor the dialogue. Unfortunately, that doesn't leave much in terms of engaging the player in a traditional gameplay sense.
Thankfully, Fort Solis as a whole is stronger than its weakest parts. That's owed largely to its writing, which launches into well-tread ground and manages to subvert tropes in unexpected ways, not just with an ending that feels different, but with some narrative-structural alterations it makes along the way. It's always difficult to write about a game that hinges so much on a mystery I ought not reveal on its behalf, but suffice it to say that, though I could vaguely see its themes coming, the actual unfolding of the plot is unique and satisfying, and it left me with the ethical questions I was clearly meant to ponder--and still do as I write this review.
Through fiction, I've traveled to one space station or another more times than I can count across many years and many forms of media. It's a setting I always enjoy--as an opening at least--and from there, stories may or may not keep me invested depending on what they do with that foundation. Fort Solis places a small but intriguing cast in its off-Earth saga in ways that can be familiar, but it justifies its addition to the subgenre with its own fun twists and philosophical arguments.
Though you're slinging spells in Immortals, the magic you're casting is more cosmetic flavoring to what is otherwise a fairly traditional military shooter. Red magic unleashes with all the concussive force of a shotgun while green magic slowly ramps with the heated ferocity of a light machine gun and blue magic slices through the air with the precision of a bolt-action rifle. You switch between them at the push of the button, though annoyingly only in a cycle of blue to red to green and back to blue. There's no way to immediately leapfrog to the magic you need.
The lack of a quality-of-life feature as mainstream as a weapon wheel is quite noticeable in Immortals, which sees you frequently switch between your three equipped styles of magic. Not only does each color of magic fire differently, many enemies are armored against all but one color, meaning you need to oftentimes switch to a specific color when focusing on a new target. Early into the game, when you're only fighting a handful of enemies at a time, this drawback isn't that noticeable. But once you get far enough into Immortals' story, you find yourself fighting wave after wave of dozen-odd enemies, each of which requires a specific color of magic to defeat. And having to cycle through the animation of summoning green magic just to have the option to switch to the blue magic I need can be costly in as fast-paced a shooter as Immortals, where enemies hit hard and nimbly move about the battlefield. A carefully lined-up shot may no longer be there by the time you switch to the needed color.
Your considerations don't just end at what color magic you're using, either, as you're outfitted with several arcane tools and powerful special spells that serve their own purposes. Those include a piercing red laser that can disrupt enemy spellcasters from using magic, an explosive wave of cascading rocks that breaks shields, floating lipids that latch onto and slow down fast-moving targets, and a shield that blocks incoming fire. All of these--and more--have their own cooldowns, and most you need to manually switch to in order to use while the rest require you to recharge them with the consumption of an item. It's a lot to keep track of and switch between, especially on a gamepad controller. My entire playthrough on PlayStation 5 left me wishing I was playing the game on PC, where presumably all of these tools and abilities are mapped to individual keys on a keyboard.
Enemy design doesn't encourage you to play all that strategically beyond color-coded combos. Melee-focused enemies pursue you with reckless abandon, incentivizing you to pick them off from a distance before they close in. Meanwhile, spellcasters and archers dart about on the outskirts, dancing out of view and blasting you from your blindspots, encouraging you to find ways of bringing them in close to then blast them away. Despite these differing approaches, however, all enemies are dealt with in the same way: shooting them with their matching color. All of the strategy in Immortals is tied to matching the right color to the right enemy, lessening the importance of positioning, cover, movement, and other skills typically rewarded in shooters.
If a massive, punching creature is running towards me in red armor, for example, it doesn't matter if I try to carefully position myself where they can't reach me and snipe at them from afar with my long-range blue magic. Their armor is red--I have to wait for them to close on me to use the shotgun-like red magic to break that armor. My ability to strategize and try to overcome an enemy's weaknesses are often dashed in the face of whatever armor an enemy is using.
This is exacerbated by the environments, which are visually distinct but largely designed as big, open spaces with several raised platforms on the outskirts and a few columns of cover scattered throughout. Sometimes there's a bottomless pit or two you have to double-jump over for a little extra flavor. But every battle quickly begins to feel the same, the only difference being that more enemies are being added later, which results in the aforementioned feeling of being overwhelmed, not necessarily challenged. It feels especially telling that Immortals' idea of a difficulty curve is to introduce a tough miniboss early on and then have you later face the exact same miniboss but with other enemies fighting you too, and then again you face two of that same miniboss and some other enemies, and then finally you face an extra large version of the miniboss with a giant health bar while smaller enemies distract you on the side. The challenge is evolving, yes, but only in terms of the number of times you have to switch what color magic you're using.
And granted, this type of increasing challenge is typical for most shooters, where you're expected to better strategize and master your weaponry over time to deal with the increasing number of threats. Immortals' difficulty isn't as rewarding to overcome, however, because the untenable task of weapon switching is constrained in an unfair way. Within the frantic whirlwind of Immortals' heated combat, keeping on top of everything that you need in order to progress through a fight is oftentimes frustrating. I appreciate the almost puzzle-like nature that Immortals is presumably striving for, where getting through a firefight isn't solely dependent on how well you shoot but also on figuring out what you need to use and in what order. And in the early hours of the game, this formula works quite well. It's only later, when Immortals' idea of combat difficulty is reduced to the simple idea of just throwing more enemies with larger health bars at the player, that this concept falls apart. The sheer number of variables to keep track of while splitting your fire between several quick-moving bullet sponges is overwhelming, regularly leading to irritating deaths that forced me to put down the game and cool off for a few hours before trying again. And, again, I suspect this shortcoming is less severe on a PC with a mouse and keyboard but having only played on consoles, I can't say for sure either way. It all just feels like you're bashing your head against the same wall and only losing because you're unable to switch between all your weapons quickly enough to put enough damage into everything fast enough.
Immortals' story is also mediocre, but it at least ventures into some interesting topics. You play as Jak, a soldier who's special because he can use all three colors of magic whereas the Average Joe can only use one. You're fighting in a war that's been going on so long that no one can really remember how it started, but both sides know that whoever wins gets control of all the magic in the world and neither army is willing to back down for fear of losing access to the most powerful resource on the planet.
The story runs through the paces of your typical military shooter. You've got a protagonist motivated by tragedy, a commanding officer who likes you despite your rebellious attitude, and two main squadmates: a lovable ride-or-die homie and an antagonistic ally who constantly looks down upon you and demeans your worth with a lousy nickname. There's a masked villain who mysteriously just appeared one day and displays the same capacity for using all three colors of magic as well, setting up what's positioned as a shocking reveal (it's not). There's some comfort in that familiarity, but it's in how Immortals subverts the expectations of where the story is expected to go that it becomes most intriguing.
At the core of Immortals' story is the idea of environmentalism and the costly nature of a war that continues as the result of human greed. Upon learning how humanity's war has caused the extinction of hundreds of fauna and flora species and will continue to make the world increasingly uninhabitable, Jak strives to be the voice of reason in the room and convince enemies and allies alike to give peace a chance. It's an initially interesting development, and seeing Jak take his more power-hungry superiors to task and confront the logical fallacies in both his enemies' and allies' positions creates absorbing drama among the characters. I regularly found myself snooping through discovered text logs and pieces of Immortals' lore to better understand the full scope of the history that had led to such a climactic moment and wanting to see what would happen next to uncover whether Jak could pull off the peace he was chasing.
Unfortunately, the environmental element of Immortals has both poor gameplay and narrative payoffs. To cleanse the world, you just do more shooting and killing--Jak can rip away more magic from the world to fuel his spells to then battle against the deadly sentient miasma that's consuming the world, knowing that this miasma is created whenever magic is being taken from the world. It's a tantalizingly complex dilemma that Immortals just refuses to delve into after setting it up.
And even though he's positioned as the voice of reason and a revolutionary in how he thinks about the war, Jak's wisdom is dashed halfway through the story with him making a bizarre decision that goes against much of his character development up to that point. When presented with an easy way of ending the conflict and sundering both sides' incessant need to control magic, Jak opts to...not make that choice. In fact, he does the exact opposite--a costly mistake that feels uncharacteristic of his seemingly intelligent grasp of the morality of the situation. As a result, you spend most of the latter half of the story striving to make amends for this bad call, but it just reinforces how badly Jak screwed up and how odd that he didn't recognize the clear hypocrisy in his actions that resulted in more war. It pushes him away from being a likable protagonist to being an oddly written and ultimately despicable one. And it's hard to play as someone you dislike. The whole thing feels less like character development and more like a way to strangely justify there being a second half of the story and making the whole experience twice as long as it probably needed to be.
Immortals of Aveum stops just short of fully complementing its traditional military shooter story with an engaging environmentalist message, instead opting to primarily use those narrative themes to inform the world design and lore. It leaves the overall story feeling half-baked, further highlighting the uncharacteristic actions of its unlikable protagonist. The actual shooting fares a bit better, especially in the first half, when combat is more like a color-coded puzzle. But it, too, falls short--the repeated use of enemies and arena layouts make for repetitive firefights and the sheer number of combat options is difficult to navigate when combat reaches an overwhelming fervor. I enjoyed small pieces of Immortals of Aveum, but not enough to strongly recommend.
One of my fondest memories as a football fan is Chris Johnson's 2,000-yard season in 2009. As arguably the fastest player the league has ever seen, the running back forever known as CJ2K was a one-man highlight reel, turning would-be six-yard gains into 50+ yard touchdowns all season long. But if you watch those highlights, you'll find a common theme: Titans wideout Kenny Britt was so often downfield blocking, creating vital running lanes through which CJ would weave with his unrivaled quickness. Britt is an unsung hero of CJ's historic season. In Madden 24, it's been great to find players can now enjoy similarly helpful downfield blocking like never before. This fix to the running game is precisely the sort of tangible improvement I hope for with every new Madden game. But examples such as this are overshadowed by a lack of major additions to Madden's suite of features and modes.
That improvement to blocking has been a minor bullet point of EA's marketing in the run-up to release and is known as the Tactical Blocking System, essentially referring to an overhaul of how the AI linemen and other blockers target which defenders to remove from the play. This is easily my favorite new toy in Madden as its changes are apparent and make the ground game, or running after the catch, much more lifelike than before. But the publisher didn't hype up this change as much as others. Instead, EA buried this highlight behind two returning features: minigames and Superstar mode.
In neither case is their return nearly as helpful or interesting as some of the on-field tweaks. In the case of minigames, I find their return to be uneven at best. On one hand, a full Training Camp simulation that gives Franchise players a faster track to player improvements is at least rewarding, but the minigames themselves range from fun and clever to boring and simple. With bronze, silver, and gold medals correlating to XP earned for the player, it's worth playing for the XP attached to those awards, but some of the minigames are much better or worse than others.
The rushing attack minigame, for example, is an easy gold medal every single time. In about 15 or 20 rushing attempts I'm able to perform within the time limit, I've scored touchdowns on almost every single one, every single time. This makes the minigame a mindless but necessary timesink, as skipping these practice sessions automatically awards players with a bronze medal and much less XP.
Still, I enjoy Training Camp overall as it becomes a new part of the team-building process every offseason. I had a legitimate camp battle for the starting QB job, which I decided thanks to not just preseason games, but Training Camp too. The bigger issue is how these minigames now pop up every week in practice sessions. Setting aside an hour or two for Training Camp before each season is enjoyable enough. Going back to manually performing weekly practice drills after years of the game automating them is a slog due to the aforementioned issue of how much the quality varies in these minigames. I can stomach doing the mindless rushing attack minigame once a season, but to do it every single week gets old fast. I was hardly out of the preseason of my first year in Franchise when I decided I'd take the hit on XP gains and just started simulating these drills.
Another oddity of Franchise mode is sweeping changes to team relocation and renaming. More cities have been added, including several new international cities, and the longtime fake teams seen in-game, like the Huskies and the Dragons, have been given aesthetic makeovers. In most cases, these new jerseys look better than they did for the past several years, but in practice, the focus on tuning these elements so much feels out of place. Like last year's Madden memorial game, most players will only participate in team relocation once or never. It feels like a lot of time and effort spent on something so unrelated to the actual league.
This dissonance only widens when you consider that the visual overhauls were treated with only a half-measure. I moved my team to Portland and dressed them in the midnight blue and gold jerseys of the fictional Night Hawks, but player gear such as gloves, arm sleeves, and wristbands, was still displaying the Night Hawks' purple and orange jersey colors of older Maddens, from before the makeover. This made my players look like mismatched kids who dressed themselves for school. Even if I removed those optional cosmetic features from every player on my team so as not to disrupt the color scheme, everyone necessarily wears cleats, and these too are colored wrongly.
It's also weird that the game displays all sorts of business-related numbers to a team considering a move--how much fan demand there is in a different city, how much the stadium will cost, how much the state will help pay for it--when none of these factors matter unless someone is playing Franchise in owner mode, something very few do relative to just playing as a coach or player.
Like minigames, Superstar mode is back. It never exactly left the game--the team tried a more authored story called Longshot a half-decade ago, but when that didn't work, it introduced Face of the Franchise, a Superstar-light mode. Now, Superstar returns in name with some welcome, NBA 2K-style overhauls. A better rewards track and real-time player grading system are nice additions, even as they're not novel to the sports sim world, but the recurring issue of bland story content is present, as it virtually always has been. In Madden 24's Superstar mode, the narrative is little more than a live-action video podcast hosted by former players who perform bad line reads as they lightly touch on your created athlete's career goings-on every few in-game weeks, such as when you're drafted, win the starting job, or move to a new team.
The centerpiece of this mode should be improving your player from a 70-something overall backup to a 99 Club Super Bowl MVP. And though playing games and working toward that long-term goal is enjoyable on a basic level, too much happens in the menus between games, like electing to make a viral video to enhance your status as a celebrity athlete, or work out on your day off for a bonus to one attribute or another come gameday. But these "events" are simply text-based options in a menu, all while your athlete is shown in the background endlessly gaming on his TV in a small bedroom. It very much feels like a mode that could grow over the years to come, and may eventually give EA its rival to NBA 2K's The City, a busy social space full of different game modes--and, of course, microtransaction offers. But today, it's not nearly that involved.
Like in past years with Face of the Franchise and The Yard working in tandem as the custom-player modes, Superstar also shares the stage with Superstar Showdown, a flashier version of The Yard's 3v3 game mode that is meant to play more like a pick-up game at the park than an actual NFL sim. But all that's new here is the field moving indoors to an eyesore of a warehouse full of enough strobe lights to merit an impromptu rave. It's so colorful and busily lit that it actually distracts from the simplistic 3v3 football taking place.
Superstar Showdown, like Superstar itself, feels like a sliver of a future mode that may justify its existence. Today, it does not nearly do that. Its only saving grace is that it can level the same created athlete that you are using in Superstar mode proper, but that does require playing Superstar Showdown, which I cannot recommend. Played as first-to-21 backyard-style games, the 3v3 mode is most often a shootout, where both teams score nearly at will.
Touches like behind-the-back passes and a bevy of emotes for sale give the game its intended youthful vibe, but it feels like every game unfolds predictably and there's no strategy built into it: Throw it deep, make a guy miss, do a dance, repeat. This mode also allows for the sale of uniform cosmetics, but those in the shop out of the gate are wildly unappealing, going so overboard in an effort to be eye-popping that they come off looking quite like bad Tron fanfic.
Madden Ultimate Team (MUT) returns in such a state that I can hardly point to anything that's new about it. In terms of the overall game, I find that to be an addition by way of stagnation, though, as for too long it's seemed, from the outside looking in, like MUT has swallowed up too many resources from other aspects of the game. Still, for players who genuinely enjoy this mode, they'll find nothing here that wasn't before. New cards replace old cards, but the pull of paying for a team rather than building a team is as strong as ever, with no apparent money-saving techniques newly unveiled.
The team promises more seasons than before--seven versus five--but this just makes the game more of a mad dash to the meta-dominant cards, thereby further vying to become the only game that one may have time for if they commit to staying competitive. This is expressed worst of all by there being some rewards in the Field Pass only awarded to the first 1,000 players to earn them.
Solo Battles remain limited to just four per day, while the best cards take an exorbitant amount of time to unlock, thereby purposely enticing in-game purchases to cut the line. Given the incredible amount of money coming into this mode, it feels like the team could be more generous and likely lose nothing while gaining some goodwill. But that's just not in the cards, apparently.
These issues I've detailed here are major and wide-ranging but related mostly to the game's breadth of modes, which is too bad since the on-field product continues to improve. I feel Madden 23's gameplay was the best in years, and Madden 24 is noticeably better than that, thanks not just to the blocking enhancements I mentioned, but also to other aspects of the game. Pass catchers, for example, now catch the ball in stride better than before, which results in long streaks going for touchdowns in ways they should've last year. Delivering a Hit Stick tackle is slightly less sticky, which helps defenders not deliver them as often, especially in PvP where it was once an overly reliable way to force fumbles.
In these small but appreciable ways, it feels like the team's foundational overhaul last year, Fieldsense, has been refined in its second season, though Madden 24 lacks a major enhancement on the level of last year's Skill-Based Passing. To be fair, I'd say that's probably the game's best new addition since 2005, though, so it was a high bar to clear.
Still, Madden 24 does not make major improvements, but rather subtle ones that I appreciate as a football fan. The series isn't taking the same-sized leaps forward of other games in this genre. It's the only NFL sim on the market, but all major sports games share a key detail in common: the annual release cycle. It can't be easy, but non-football games are making greater strides in mimicking their respective sports than Madden is at mimicking football. Graded against itself, Madden 24 is best-in-class on the field. But when stacked up against other sports sims, Madden is clearly lagging behind.
Another legacy issue of this series is presentation. Sports gamers want their games to look and sound like the real thing. To my memory, Madden has never really come close to achieving this, and though recent efforts have inched toward that thanks to a solid booth featuring Charles Davis and Brandon Gaudin, improvements have stagnated in recent years. The aesthetic of the scoreboard gets redone every year, but commentary remains stale and often gets things wrong or says inane things, like a team having qualified for the playoffs after having won a playoff game, or Gaudin saying a team "is 7-2 on the season and has won seven of its last nine games."
Player introductions, camera work, and the general atmosphere of a Madden game don't resemble what spectators see on autumn Sundays, and while so much else about making this particular game is obviously difficult, it's easy to compare a Madden game's presentation to that on CBS or Fox and plainly see they are not similar enough for the former to be immersive.
If a football fan only wants to know whether this year's game plays better than last year's on the field, it surely does. But the problems Madden 24 faces are emblematic of its legacy: a long history of backtracking to old features. This is far from the first time that features were introduced, removed, and later revived. But few years of Madden in recent memory have felt as hamstrung by its unforgiving development cycle as this one. It makes me wonder if we're still seeing the effects of delays and disruptment from the pandemic.
Madden 24 is a paradox. I would not want to revert to a previous year's game simply because the on-field gameplay is clearly better, while virtually everything surrounding its best attribute feels incomplete or undesirable. It feels as though Madden is now like a team with a star quarterback surrounded by a bad offensive line, unreliable wideouts, and a porous defense. There is greatness to appreciate here, but in the prime of its career, Madden 24 is being held back by a roster not able to compete at a high level.
Whether it's a giant woman willfully letting the Children of Moonlight deglove one of her hands; a bearded man leaking golden honey out of gaping wounds in his palms, face, and back; or a vendor that's simply an arm protruding from a towering pile of goods, developer The Game Kitchen has a knack for creating surreal pixel art imagery. Blasphemous 2 sees the Seville-based studio delve further into Andalusian and Spanish culture, iconography, and folklore to concoct a gothic, quasi-Catholic world that's as gruesome as it is fascinating. Inspired by the religious paintings of Francisco Goya and the architecture of cities like Seville and Cadiz, Blasphemous 2 follows in the footsteps of its predecessor, mixing its unique and harrowing aesthetic with a gameplay amalgam of Metroidvanias and Souls-likes. Where the first game faltered, however, its sequel makes significant improvements, resulting in a thrilling adventure that doesn't run out of steam.
As solid as the original game was, monotony did seep into its latter half due to a lack of variety--with one-dimensional combat limited by a single weapon--and some frustrating platforming. Thankfully, Blasphemous 2 rectifies both of these issues by introducing a robust combat system in tandem with more varied traversal that doesn't rely on an overabundance of spike traps. You'll still encounter the occasional pitfall intended to punish mistimed leaps, but plunging onto a bed of jagged spikes doesn't result in instant death anymore. This is a crucial change since an expanded repertoire of abilities has resulted in more demanding platforming, yet you're unlikely to feel disheartened if you do make a mistake while traversing this labyrinthine world.
When it comes to story, Blasphemous 2 is as obfuscated as its predecessor. Much of its heady lore can be interpreted from dialogue with friendly NPCs and loquacious item descriptions, but if you're anything like me, you'll need an in-depth lore video to fully grasp it all. Nevertheless, the setup is rather simple. Picking up right where Blasphemous' Wounds of Eventide DLC left off, Blasphemous 2 begins with the return of the all-powerful deity known as The Miracle, who is prophesied to give birth to a so-called miracle child. This forces The Penitent One to awaken from his final resting place in order to slay the unholy newborn and every other grotesque monstrosity in his path. Along the way, myriad NPCs will shine a faint light on the mysterious new world the Penitent One finds himself in and its hidden secrets, but only if you choose to seek out these ancillary threads. Much like the inscrutable fables of From Software, you'll only take out as much as you're willing to put in. This style of storytelling isn't for everyone, but even if you can't or aren't willing to comprehend all of its machinations, the tales you do fully engage with are likely to engross.
Upon emerging from his grandiose coffin, your first task as The Penitent One is to pick a starting weapon. There are three distinct options to choose from, starting with the most powerful of the three, named Veredicto. This hefty flail has both a long reach and wide arc, making it perfect for smiting enemies without venturing too close. It's not the quickest armament, but its sheer power increases your chances of stunning enemies, thus leaving them open for a stylish execution kill. Once you've generated enough Fervour--which is Blasphemous 2's version of mana--you can also set Veredicto alight for a short while, letting you singe enemies with additional burn damage.
On the opposite side of the spectrum are Sarmiento & Centella, lightning-fast dual blades that swap strength for speed. Equipping this pair also allows you to block incoming attacks, making it particularly useful for fighting up close and personal. Ruego Al Alba, on the other hand, represents a middle ground between the two extremes of the other options. This blade is the most balanced of the three and also gives you the ability to counter incoming strikes provided your timing is on point. Whichever weapon you choose will dictate which paths you can access at the start of the game, since each one has a unique traversal skill associated with it. This adds consequences to your agency in making this decision, but it's ultimately shallow since it doesn't take long until all three weapons are in your possession.
Introducing three varied weapons is a considerable step in the right direction when it comes to improving upon Blasphemous' one-note combat. The Game Kitchen doesn't just stop there, though. Skill trees for each weapon create a palpable sense of progression as you unlock additional techniques and combos throughout the game. Since all three weapons have their own strengths and drawbacks, it's unlikely you'll cling to a single tool for an entire playthrough. Picking the right weapon in the right circumstance is key to overcoming the plethora of enemy types Blasphemous 2 throws at you. Whether it's a mage conjuring fire spells from his bed while some poor, hapless saps hold him aloft, or a giant armored creature wielding a poison-coated hammer. Each sprite is wonderfully animated, and enemies tend to tear themselves asunder when felled, which never loses its luster. There's also a satisfying cadence to the way combat flows, as enemies strike with clearly signposted attacks. Death is never too far away if you're sloppy--perhaps by gambling on an extra attack or mistiming an evasive slide--but defeating each foe comes down to knowing their movesets and being precise in your actions, lending most encounters an exciting back-and-forth tempo.
Much like the first game, Blasphemous 2's boss fights are a highlight, pitting you against a menagerie of varied and challenging foes. Some require the accuracy to recognize and then time when to avoid incoming melee strikes, while others take a page out of the Bullet Hell playbook by bombarding you with a dizzying array of projectiles. Memorizing which moves can be blocked and which need to be dashed through or jumped over is another age-old element of these intense bouts, but there's also variety found within this familiar framework. One fight, for example, sees you battling on a pair of undulating chandeliers, forcing you to jump between them in order to chase down the boss or avoid their attacks. The only downside to these clashes are the unskippable cutscenes that typically kickstart each one. They're usually fairly short, but when you're attempting the same fight multiple times, it doesn't take long for tedium to kick in.
This emphasis on precision is also reflected in Blasphemous 2's numerous platforming challenges. They begin simply enough when you're limited to a single jump and one weapon ability, but The Game Kitchen has fully embraced the Metroidvana rulebook this time around, so new traversal moves are gradually doled out as you progress through the game. You'll discover plenty of dead ends that need to be revisited once the requisite ability has been unlocked, and as I mentioned before, each of the three weapons has its own unique ability associated with it as well. Veredicto, for instance, can be used to strike these magical floating bells to unleash a soundwave that opens up specific doors and reveals hidden platforms. Yet you also gain access to other familiar abilities like a double-jump and air-dash, to the point where you're utilizing multiple abilities one after another to traverse a single room, swapping between weapons on the fly to reveal hidden platforms and destroy blockades. It sometimes feels decidedly old school, harkening back to some of the best 2D platformers where a jumping puzzle is as engaging as a frantic battle against multiple foes.
As you gain access to more areas of the map, you'll also begin to uncover complementary items that can be equipped to enhance The Penitent One's skillset. Prayers--which function as magical attacks--are now a viable alternative to simply cutting everything down with a melee weapon, proving much more useful in combat than they were in the first game due to an increase in damage output. You can equip two of these potent Prayers at a time, which range from short bursts of fire to sizeable beams of mystical energy. Rosary Beads also return, allowing you to increase your resistance to specific damage types.
Most notable, however, is the presence of a sculptor in the game's hub area. This humble craftsman gives you access to a slew of different figures that confer powerful benefits when placed upon the altarpiece on your back. You might find a figure that increases the stun power of your attacks, another that reduces the cooldown of your dodge, or one that improves the effect of healing items. How you align each sculpture on the altarpiece also matters, since certain figures react with one another to create additional perks. I placed two together that aligned to form another power, whereby executing an enemy would halt the passage of time for a few seconds. This proved especially useful when confronted with multiple foes, and is just one example of how these ancillary items can have a significant impact on Blasphemous 2's combat.
There are a number of vendors located in the aforementioned hub area and beyond, allowing you to upgrade your health, hand over a knot to unlock another Rosary Bead, or simply purchase items. However, each one is spread out far enough--with doors, ladders, and teleportation devices in between them--that there's some notable downtime whenever you need to visit a few in succession. This process wouldn't be quite so tedious if they were closer together. You also can't teleport between the bonfire-esque checkpoints you'll unlock across the map, instead only being able to quickly move between a few designated points, so there's a fair amount of backtracking involved that usually revolves around avoiding every enemy in your path. This is par for the course in Metroidvanias, but it feels unnecessary when the gameplay in between adds nothing of value.
Even with these issues, Blasphemous 2 is an excellent sequel that improves upon its predecessor in almost all of the ways it fell short. The addition of three new weapons--and the litany of ways you can augment your build--ensure that combat is engaging throughout, while traversal has also been expanded upon in positive ways, removing much of the previous frustration by focusing on satisfying challenges and a tangible sense of progression. Combine this with another fascinating setting and deluge of haunting imagery, and this is a pilgrimage worth embarking on.
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is an ideal summer movie. The franchise went on to become single-mindedly obsessed with its breakout star, Captain Jack Sparrow, but the first movie was an agile, lightly spooky swashbuckling adventure. Shadow Gambit: The Cursed Crew shares that movie's spirit of goofy haunted slapstick with a heart and real dramatic stakes, and blends it with an expertly crafted stealth-strategy campaign. It all comes together into one of my favorite games of the year.
Shadow Gambit centers around the Red Marley, a living, talking ghost ship with an undead crew who have fallen to the Inquisition of the Burning Maiden. You play primarily as Afia, as she revives the cursed compatriots one by one and gathers information on the hidden treasure of the Red Marley's captain, Captain Mordechai, who is conspicuously absent. The search for Mordechai's treasure is an intriguing hook that propels the plot forward and balances well against the often eccentric subplots of the individual characters.
The crew is distinctly drawn with one-of-a-kind visual attributes and backgrounds that makes discovering each team member a joy. Afia is permanently seen with a spectral sword sticking out of her chest, which she draws to eliminate enemies. Suleidy looks as if she's been partially consumed by plant-life. Pinkus is a fancy lad in a powdered wig, while Quintin the treasurer carries around his own golden skull. For a game about the undead, the personalities are just crackling with life and personality.
Each crew member has their own job that fits into the hierarchy of the ship to match as well. Pinkus is the quartermaster, making his foppish personality a part of how he must have greased palms when he was alive. Mr. Mercury, the shipwright, is practically a part of the ship itself with an anchor attached to his body. Afia, as the main character, is named the navigator, determining where the Red Marley goes. She is not, however, named captain--the Marley has its own agenda, and its own opinions, and its loyalty to the former captain, Mordechai, is a major driving force behind the plot. Optional Crew Tales help fill out the team's personality with self-contained stories that run the gamut from shocking to surprisingly comedic.
After choosing an island and picking your team of three pirates, you choose a landing zone and begin exploring the well-guarded Inquisition encampments. Missions are focused mostly on stealth and strategy, and it's very easy to get overwhelmed if a guard spots you. Most missions have you infiltrating a particular spot by killing or distracting the guards, or eliminating a particular target. The guards have their own sets of overlapping patrol paths and sight lines, making each new area a cascading puzzle to resolve. There's a level of patience and meticulousness to carving a path through the Inquisition forces. Since it takes place mostly in real-time, you'll spend a while monitoring the guards' patrols and choosing exactly when to make your move, and how to stash the bodies of your fallen victims before other guards spot them. You'll discover the one tiny opening in their defenses and use that to take out one guard, who was providing the sightline cover for another, and then another, until an entire area lays dead. It's incredibly satisfying.
That's partly because the fusions of character traits and ship roles come into even sharper focus in the missions themselves, where their powers are well differentiated. You may need to find a bush to hide a body in most circumstances, but if you've brought Suleidy along, she can simply toss a seed that immediately grows a bush anywhere you'd like. One target may be far away with tons of enemies in-between, but if you've brought Teresa the sniper, she can take them out with one well-aimed crossbow bolt. One of my favorites was Toya, the ship's cook and a Japanese pirate, who performs much faster melee executions than the rest of the crew, and who can teleport immediately to his spirit-sword for an instant-kill.
Some of the powers fall into similar categories--most of the crew has some ability to distract guards or make them change positions, and the game will warn you if you try to start a mission composed only of members without such an ability. But that consideration aside, the powers and stage design are beautifully flexible, allowing you to complete a mission with essentially any combination of characters. Never once during my playthrough did I find myself unequipped to resolve a mission with the crew I had brought. I never had to start a mission over from scratch.
That said, you will find yourself reloading a lot. That's because frequent save-states are a core mechanic in Shadow Gambit. The game encourages you to quickly hit a single button dedicated to creating a "memory," and the Marley will even occasionally ring a bell reminding you to save if you haven't for a while. This is a game that recognizes that you'll probably get spotted or otherwise make mistakes, a lot, and it accommodates that by including save-scumming as a natural part of your progression--and even incorporating it into the story itself. Shadow Gambit does warn you if you're trying to reload a memory that's very old--which can be slightly off-putting if you pick up a suspended game on your Steam Deck after a day, because in that case, all of your saves are deemed old--but it's a helpful feature regardless.
On top of their personalities and powers, each crew member is built slightly differently for traversal. Some may be more adept at swimming to flank on another side of an island, for example, while others can climb vines. It's much easier to get around and find an angle with some members, which helps balance the ones with more powerful and long-range abilities. But crucially, you can obtain your team in any order you'd like. Since their corpses are scattered around the ship, you choose which ones to revive as you obtain the needed materials. That gives the first half of the game a certain predictability, as you know you're constantly seeking sets of two magical artifacts across story missions until you've revived them all. But it also helps you build a team that truly feels like your own.
For my part, I learned that looks can be deceiving, since my chosen order didn't end up aligning with my favorites. I made Pinkus one of my very first crewmates, imagining that his ability to take over the minds of enemies would prove especially valuable. In practice, Pinkus was one of my least favorite, and others that I had saved for last like Quintin became some of my go-to crew. Each member gets a short tutorial to learn their abilities after they're revived, but I may have chosen a different order if I had gotten a taste for each of them before committing to a revival.
Shadow Gambit does encourage you to rotate everyone, though, as you get greater benefits from bringing along crew members who haven't been on a mission for a while. That energy can then be used to unlock a single, powerful upgrade per crew member. Afia's teleportation-kill can be upgraded to ignore altitude restrictions, for example, while Pinkus can gain the ability to take over higher-level guards. Even after dozens of hours, I haven't gotten nearly enough energy to unlock every upgrade, so this is really where it counts to pick your favorites.
The stages are expertly crafted to accommodate any combination of team members, which could have run the risk of making them too samey and repetitive. In practice, though, the difficulty ramps up nicely. Later stages have truly devilish brain-teaser combinations of guards and sightlines that tested my ability to pick them off one by one. You can also pause the action and map out a plan for your crew to execute, which is especially helpful for the moments you need to pull off simultaneous kills or trigger a distraction at just the right moment.
Once you've completed a stage and found your exit point, the game replays your entire run in an overhead perspective map, fast-forwarding through your chosen path and the guards you disappeared. It distills the hour or more you spent slowly navigating your way through a stage into a minute or two, encapsulating the memories of your successful and sometimes haphazard approach. Then, you get to start the next mission and do it all again.
And I couldn't wait to do it all again, every time. Shadow Gambit: The Cursed Crew is, through and through, a delight. The inventive setting, swashbuckling macabre tone, an enjoyable cast of phenomenal characters, and a compelling gameplay loop all come together for a uniquely satisfying stealth-strategy experience. I can not only recommend it, but I truly hope it's the start of a franchise so that I can spend more time with me mateys.
1974's The Texas Chain Saw Massacre is a horror landmark. It's gritty like no other, unflinching in its brutality, and downright terrifying as often as it wants to be. Bringing those same qualities to a video game adaptation of the movie milestone would be paramount, which is exactly what Gun Media and Sumo Nottingham have done. The Texas Chain Saw Massacre (TCM) is every bit as nauseatingly tense as the classic movie, all while cleverly gamifying its scares in ways that are satisfying and built for the long haul.
Asymmetrical horror multiplayer games have been experiencing a golden age for several years now, but TCM is already my favorite of them. In TCM, a unique 4v3 setup allows each round to play out like an actual horror movie. What I didn't realize until I played it for review is that to properly balance this particular game, creating an even playing field isn't necessarily the best approach. Each round is a horror story, and its team of "victims" intentionally have the odds stacked against them, often coming down to just one Final Girl (or Guy) who might limp off the property to salvation. The high-stakes game of hide-and-seek is better for it.
A cast of five victims and five Slaughter family members, including two newly created characters who fit right into the world, make up the roster. While those playing the family have what are essentially class-based villains to pick from, the victims are closer in performance to each other, save for a special ability they each uniquely possess and starting stats that make up their various but customizable builds. As the victims start out in the basement impaled on meat hooks, the goal is simple and exciting in horror movie terms: Get the hell out of there. That encompasses first needing to climb off the hook, then unlocking an escape route, then traversing a labyrinthine and treacherous outside section no matter which of the game's three maps they're on, all while being hunted. Needless to say, survival is never easy.
Leatherface always starts in the basement with the victims, meaning every round begins chaotically fast, and when you hear that chainsaw revving, it's like nothing else in horror, no matter the medium. It's enough to set off someone's fight-or-flight response, and I've even played with people who voiced their wish to just die and "get it over with" because the terror is too much to bear.
Meanwhile, two other family members start upstairs and outside, each with their own tasks to perform. Maybe the hitchhiker needs to set traps, or the cook needs to fortify exit doors with extra padlocks, or one of the new villains, Sissy, needs to poison consumables or key items. These skills play off each other well. For example, if the hitchhiker puts a trap in front of the generator, while the cook double-locks the related gate, it creates a multi-layered blockade for victims to overcome. These layers feel like walls closing in around the victims in a classic horror movie way, as undoing these stoppages takes time and sometimes makes noise.
For the survivors, time is always running short, as they're slowly bleeding out for the duration of any round. They need to stay quiet, so they're not pinged for the enemies, but also move swiftly, as the longer a match goes on, usually the more things start to sway in favor of the sadistic family. That's because an immobile grandpa NPC villain can be fed blood collected from the map and from melee damage done to victims, which then allows the villains to routinely ping the entire map for survivors. This in itself becomes an exciting minigame, as victims have a few seconds' notice that the skill is about to be used, so they must stop in their tracks to stay off his figurative radar. Naturally, it's not often a good time to simply stop moving when you're trapped in a horror story, so this aspect of the game creates more signature moments where suddenly all three killers may descend on a victim who was spotted by the old man.
The audio and visual elements help carry this game to greatness, as well. An original soundtrack built on an instrument the team at Gun Media calls the "Apprehension Engine" allows the music to adapt to every situation, culminating in a pulse-pounding number that plays whenever a player is the last victim left on the map. Every sound feels purpose-built, from the generator running in the distance, telling a player they'll need to shut it down to advance past a related gate, to the little drips in the basement that sometimes can resemble a victim rummaging for an unlock tool, or hiding in a dark corner. I also love how the teams will communicate at times, like when the cook casually chats with Sissy as the two players pass one another, or when a killer spots a victim and automatically taunts them.
A visual cue also tells players when a killer is nearby, but this winds up being as scary as it is helpful, as oftentimes victims may not have known they were so close to danger. One of the best aspects of the game is the tall grass. In TCM, it's so effective that killers are liable to pass right by victims hiding in it. This is even truer on the nighttime maps. Given the victims are not really expected to survive--not all of them anyway--this is one small way of aiding the plucky kids in their escape efforts.
Though the number of maps seems low--just three, or six if you count their nighttime variants--in practice it works really well. Naturally, they each take place in the same region of Texas, so their outside sections end up feeling similar, but not without offering unique elements. In one map, for example, tall sunflower fields offer both visual variety as well as a unique escape route, giving victims more cover outdoors than other maps offer. On the slaughterhouse map, there's a portion that has felt under-patrolled by the killers, making it a good place to attempt an escape, but getting there is perhaps more difficult than other spots, as the backyard feels tighter and seems to have more locked doors than other maps.
In the early hours of play, the repeated aesthetic of dry grass, dilapidated sheds, and locked gates can blend in across maps. Over time, the layouts started to piece together in my mind, which definitely helped, but I still don't feel like mentally mapping the distinct areas has tipped the scales back in my favor when playing as a victim. There's knowing the way out, and then there's performing those steps. The latter is always a struggle, as it should be.
The iconic house from the movies is probably the best map, with its long driveway that feels like a terrifying sprint to freedom--provided players have shut off the generator blocking the path with an electrified trap. However, in my experience, all three maps feel well-considered in their construction, and usually a savvy player can wiggle out of an issue if they're smart, quiet, and they pick their spots to move around.
My favorite environmental detail, which is found on all three maps, is how the game uses wells. When outside and feeling cornered, sometimes the safest escape is to jump down a well. It buys more time than any other method, but it leaves you hurting and also essentially resets you in the basement. This design is the lifeblood of horror as a genre, and it works so well as it's translated to a game. As soon as you hit the ground it's as though the first moments of the match are now playing out again, but usually faster. Healing will be more vital as you recover from the fall, the killers may have already eliminated allies by then, allowing them to hone in on you, and now they know exactly where you went. It's absolutely dread-inducing. I love it.
All of these factors--the oppressive maps, the symbiotic skills of the killers, the necessity to be both quick and quiet, the haunting music--add up to rounds of about 10-20 minutes that feel as tense as any classically scripted single-player horror experience. It's also surprisingly rewarding.
TCM works really well as I've just described it. But what takes it to another level is the deep and enriching metagame, where XP is doled out both per account and per character. This means that some unlocks, like skill points, are universal. I can play well in a round as Leatherface, level up my account, then apply those skill points to a different character, even among the victims if I wish. At the same time, I'll directly improve the three equipped perks of whichever character I actually use in a round.
Skill trees are lengthy, and though there are many branches displayed, and choosing one over another sometimes blocks off the one not chosen, players can respec at will and to no penalty. All skill points are returned, allowing players to rebuild their character simply and often.
Further enhancing attributes of any character can also be done, such as making the aging cook a bit longer-winded so he can chase down victims better, or to make my favorite victim, the lockpicking wizard Connie, a bit tougher to kill. Whether players solidify strengths or fortify weaknesses, the number of options is surprisingly vast. Two versions of the same character may play very differently after some hours and skill points have been spent. Given how well the game delivers its scares, a rewarding metagame such as this feels like the team understood not just how to make a Texas Chain Saw Massacre game, but also how to expertly put together a multiplayer game, too.
Within the realm of character customization, the only aspect that feels lacking is cosmetic choices. Each victim has several outfits that can be easily unlocked just by using them in rounds, but every option is merely a palette swap. Leatherface does enjoyably have two other outfits from the movie--the Pretty Lady and the Old Woman, but then other killers have no alternate styles at all, too. The game strives to be faithful, so I understand not wanting to let a victim unlock something immersion-breaking, but hopefully with time more varied but era-appropriate styles become available, like they did in Gun Media's previous game in this genre, Friday The 13th. In the meantime, I've taken to simply wearing whichever camouflages me the best.
I have few qualms with the game as it stands today, though one that sticks out is the issue of team sizes. I routinely play with a group of three others, but because of Texas Chain Saw Massacre's 4v3 setup, that means my group will always queue into the victim side of a round, never getting to split up across teams in the same lobby. Thankfully, I find both sides very fun to play and don't have a strong preference, but if ever I am playing with my go-to group and we are itching to hunt down the victims, not play as them, it seems we can only resort to private matches. However, there's no metagame progress to be made in private matches, so it feels like there's no great solution to this, with the best option being to just accept that we'll be the victims, I suppose.
The Texas Chain Saw Massacre plays, looks, and sounds like its team holds the source material in the highest regard. Faithfully transposing the film's signature terror into a modern multiplayer game is a feat on both ends. The metagame never gamifies the tension to a degree that feels distracting or dampening, and yet that rewarding gameplay loop means, despite how unnerving each round is, there's a strong pull to play it again and again. As one of the year's scariest and best-designed experiences, The Texas Chain Saw Massacre has reset the bar for multiplayer horror games.
Comedian and HBO host John Oliver once said "wrestling is better than the things you like." The same can't always be said of wrestling games, but WrestleQuest, a new role-playing game (RPG) from Mega Cat Studios, had the potential to give truth to that statement. Unfortunately, though, WrestleQuest is marred by a litany of issues. Some are directly tied to its gameplay mechanics, while others are related to its presentation. Together they mean that what could've been a promising offering for fans of wrestling has its charm wear off in a short span of time.
Your journey in WrestleQuest starts with podcast hosts regaling you of an exciting tale, one where athletes come from humble beginnings, taking on all challenges before reaching the big leagues. You're introduced to one of the main characters, the Muchacho Man Randy Santos, an obvious nod to Macho Man Randy Savage. With big goals and big dreams, Randy is joined by friends who are also seeking to prove themselves in the squared circle.
Soon thereafter, you meet Brink Logan and his siblings from the cold north. Without the pink and black motif, you might not notice that Brink is a reference to Bret "The Hitman" Hart, until he starts talking about being the "excellence of execution," along with moves alluding to the Sharpshooter and a getup akin to a mob hitman.
Things get chaotic from there, as you fight alongside a humanoid stag, possibly alluding to all the moose in Canada; a toy box mechanic who always wears a cap and has the "five moves of doom" hinted at; a soldier who's more akin to a G.I. Joe character, a fish who's also a high-flyer, dubbed as the "Loachador" for obvious reasons, and more. There's even a black character, The Brooter, who does a big boot, and an ability related to eating vitamins--which was a bit too on-the-nose given Hulk Hogan's past racist tirade.
In-game, wrestling legends aren't just celebrated or idolized, they're worshipped--complete with large statues telling you of their deeds. You'll meet personages such as the aforementioned Macho Man Randy Savage, Andre the Giant, the Road Warriors, Jake "The Snake" Roberts, Sgt. Slaughter, and more. Some would join as managers, while others could become summons.
I found these facets quite endearing, not just as someone who's been eager to try more classic-themed wrestling titles, but also one who's been looking for a game that showcases what wrestling is: an over-the-top spectacle where both cartoony and serious concepts co-exist.
Unfortunately, the charm and humor soon wear off as WrestleQuest's quick-time event-driven combat system reveals a lack of depth and variety. I personally have no issues with QTEs in games; if done correctly, they make for engaging and exciting moments, where you're not just watching a scene, but actively participating in one. WrestleQuest, however, forgoes moderation. Instead, it relies heavily on QTEs, almost to an egregious and exorbitant level. Every character's basic attack requires one or two perfectly timed button presses. Miss, and your character could either get countered, or their attack will deal less damage. The same can be said for many skills, which also need buttons to be pressed when prompted. Ditto for defending against certain abilities, just so you can mitigate some of the hits.
This further extends to the pin system, which requires you to time your button press just as the arrow hits the green marker. For veterans of past WWE 2K titles, you'll remember this as one of the most hated mechanics during a match. In this game, however, a poorly timed click also causes a downed wrestler opponent to get healed partially and get back on their feet. Naturally, you'd get attacked soon thereafter, causing a tiresome back and forth. You're more likely to enable the auto-pin setting because of this.
There's also another option that allows you to deal maximum damage, though this makes the game too easy to a fault. Another recently added option slows down QTEs, though that doesn’t change the fact that many combat actions still require them. Since QTEs are a core gameplay mechanic, it’s as though your only option is to continue playing even when it becomes tedious, or to remove the challenge entirely, with nothing in between.
Combat also includes the hype system, where certain actions boost or lower hype, providing boosts to your three-person party depending on the thresholds that you reach. There are also managers that add passive boons, as well as tag team and triple team maneuvers. Sadly, all of these take a backseat to questionable mechanics that, rather than creating a deep and dynamic system, becomes an overused and repetitive gimmick instead. Turn-based combat is often more engaging when it entails deep, tactical options, as opposed to depending on numerous timed button presses for multiple actions.
Another one of WrestleQuest's flaws is its pacing: it jumps from one team to the next, almost without rhyme or reason. You can guess that the presentation might be akin to a movie or a show: we see the heroes come from different backgrounds; we see how all have separate adventures; and, finally, the whole gang is united. The concept works on paper, but is deeply flawed once you play for a few hours.
There were instances when certain ideas were introduced, such as fixing cars, only for that mechanic to be of no use when it abruptly switches to a party that’s in another area. There were moments when I was in the middle of a quest and I'd reach an objective, but then the game jumps to another character's perspective, and that person is tackling a different quest. Likewise, there were parts where a new teammate joins the crew, only to immediately return to the previous squad's section, without so much as being able to see that teammate’s capabilities.
Ordinarily, an RPG gives players a quest objective, which they finish before moving to the next one. Along the way the player encounters different characters, a boss, a new biome, or is taken on a narrative arc that has time to breathe so players can immerse themselves.
WrestleQuest upends this format for something much more chaotic and incohesive, as though it's simply trying to tick the boxes for various ideas, tropes, and environments with no rhyme or reason. At one point, you're exploring a sci-fi-themed location, but then another squad is in the desert, which then shifts to a third group in a graveyard, only for that group's quest to remain incomplete since you'd return to your squad in the sci-fi area. Lather, rinse, and repeat for over a dozen hours. This kind of contrasting shifts could be utilized to interesting effect if there was some narrative conceit or some other gameplay or aesthetic idea causing it--Chrono Trigger, for example, takes players through vastly different environments quickly, but it's all driven by a time-traveling and reality-hopping story. WrestleQuest doesn't have anything like that, it just feels random.
For the sake of transparency, there were technical issues that I experienced during the course of our WrestleQuest review. There's a possibility that you won't encounter these at launch, but they're worth noting, nonetheless. The biggest was a bug in a location where my team had to split up to interact with three gates. Getting discovered by a spotlight caused a character to get teleported to the middle path, with no way of returning to the other areas. Since the game only autosaves the latest save state, that meant loading a manual save instead. And, as you may have guessed, my last manual save was several hours prior, which meant I had to redo entire sections.
WrestleQuest has the right tools to make for a memorable wrestling RPG experience, with its quirky characters, vibrant atmosphere, and countless references. Unfortunately, though, its over-reliance on a rote combat system, poorly paced narrative, and issues under the hood make for a frustrating experience. Far from being Mr. Perfect, it is, instead, the Genesis of McGillicutty.
Set within our world--but one in which there's an ounce of truth to the myths surrounding the Greek gods, titans, and their multitude of offspring--Stray Gods starts off like your typical visual novel. Conversations pause in order to present you with a multitude of dialogue options, some of which allow you to gain additional insight into other characters while others push the story forward to the next scene. Almost immediately, you have a chance to flirt with your cute best friend and kickstart one of several different romances. There's comfort in this familiarity. And then the game quickly reveals what separates itself from its contemporaries: the music.
You actively participate in every musical number during Stray Gods runtime, of which there are many across its three acts. Like conversations in choice-driven visual novels and RPGs, each song can branch, and the effects of your choices impact not only the direction of that particular song but every performance that succeeds it. Choices are divided into three categories--Kickass, Clever, and Charming--informing both the method by which you're trying to convince someone of something, and how a song can transform. Kickass choices are aggressive and confrontational and make songs take on a more punk rock vibe, while Clever choices are thoughtful and strategic and lean into jazz. Charming choices, on the other hand, are empathetic and caring and create a more melodious tune. Though all of the songs might begin one way, they can drastically change depending on what you choose.
As far as I can tell--there are a lot of choices to make in this game and I only replayed each song so many times before moving on--every direction a song can take flows together. I cannot fathom how difficult a task that is to pull off (we're talking different genres and tempos yet it still has to all feel like the same song) but it's all tightly woven together into this beautiful symphony of sound that leans into the transformative qualities of music to explore everything from fated heartbreak to lingering trauma. It also helps that this formula works wonders narratively, as the game sees you take on the role of the last Muse within the Greek pantheon as she explores the healing powers of music.
In Stray Gods, you play as Grace, a normal human thrust into a death sentence when the leadership of the existing Greek pantheon--Athena, Aphrodite, Apollo, and Persephone--mistakenly condemns her for the murder of Calliope. Grace was the only one present during the final moments of the Muse's life as she bleeds out from a stab wound, leading to the false accusation. Grace is allowed a week to prove her innocence, seeking answers and chasing down leads with the help of her best friend Freddie.
Within the world of Stray Gods, the members of the Greek pantheon pass their souls, or eidolons, to the nearest person to them when they die, and so Grace inherits Calliope's abilities and becomes a Muse, giving her the power to help anyone reveal their true feelings or fully express themselves through song. She also inherits Calliope's family as well, putting her in the orbit of Hermes, Pan, Eros, and other entities of myth, many of whom have their own motivations for wanting to help Grace track down Calliope's killer.
It's a fantastic story with a rewarding sense of agency in how you approach conversations and your overall investigation. Very early into the game, I started to think that I wasn't going to solve the case or that I might even take the fall for who I suspected to be the real killer because I didn't want them to die. So I figured my best chance at survival was accruing allies and being nice to the most powerful members of the pantheon so when the week ended and Grace's trial rolled around, I'd have people to stand by my side and say I shouldn't die anyway even if I was guilty. As more was uncovered and I stumbled into increasingly troubling revelations, I realized I likely wasn't jetting toward either conclusion I initially thought I was. But my decision to gather as many allies as possible still came in clutch by helping me circumnavigate several issues in the late game. There were a lot of people who felt indebted to me, and they allowed me to go to places and talk to people I shouldn't have as well as stood up for me in moments where events could have gone south very quickly. My choices were honored.
The Greek pantheon--now calling themselves the Idols--is a messy bunch, struggling to survive hundreds of miles away from home in America with many of their number (including the big three of Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades) gone, either because they walked away from the Idols or because they died with no one nearby to absorb their eidolon. Grace, approaching them with the fresh perspective of someone who has only recently become a god, is able to help them tackle their issues with the more fervent immediacy of a mortal, wielding the power of music to help these gods delve into whatever problem has been ailing them for decades, sometimes centuries.
But music is such an interpretative power. When Grace invites someone to sing with her, you're usually not being told how someone feels. And so each song becomes this balancing act of people, using music, rhyme schemes, and playful wordplay to try and reach a place of emotional understanding and catharsis. It transforms what otherwise might have been simple conversations into intense battles of emotion, each side bouncing off one another with carefully crafted improvisation. And just as these musical numbers can be funny and joyous at times, they can also be absolutely heartbreaking. However, they're always memorable and culminate in a musical finale that is built from all the music and emotional connections that you managed to create. Many of the scenes in Stray Gods are going to sit with me for a long time, especially the ones where it seemed like there was no real right answer to the difficult morally gray questions being asked, resigning me to guide Grace as best I could and hope for the best. It occasionally worked, but it just as often didn't. Regardless of how I pushed Grace to act, the results always had an impact on what happened in the song next and how the outcome of the interaction ultimately influenced the direction of the story.
That said, it's not just your vocal performances that determine your fate. Between performances, you'll be tasked with chasing down clues behind Calliope's murder, deciding who to talk to and in what order, and investigating crime scenes. The moment-to-moment gameplay of crime scene investigations is a tad too simplistic to produce a rewarding problem-solving experience, which is my one major gripe with the game. When Grace is investigating a space, you're given a list of items to look at and you just keep clicking through until you arrive at the clue Grace is looking for. Thankfully, these moments are few and far between. The rest of the game is conversing with characters, and gathering clues depending on who you choose to talk to and what information you trust to share with them. Sometimes Grace needs to lie or hold back on sharing information to preserve a relationship and learn something important, and other times being aggressive or truthful or charming is the way to go. There's actual strategy and consequence to your investigation when it comes to talking to people--the main crux of the game--and that fulfills the fantasy of being a musically-inclined crack detective.
Early in the game, you get to choose whether Grace is an especially Kickass, Clever, or Charming person, and this opens up unique dialogue options that further shape how individual relationships play out. It's easier to prove your worth to the in-your-face disgraced Queen of the Underworld Persephone if Grace has access to Kickass options, for example, while a Clever Grace can go toe-to-toe with the secretive goddess of wisdom Athena or the mischievous god of chaos Pan. These dialogue options don't seem to have as impactful an effect on the story as a whole, but they do inject some welcome replayability into Stray Gods if--like me--you want to see all the different ways that each song can play out and you want how Grace interacts with people to be slightly different playthrough to playthrough.
Stray Gods is also just a pleasant game to look at and listen to. Emulating a comic book look and art style, it incorporates a lot of movement in its scenes, quickly shifting the position and stance of different characters and objects to add a frenetic pull from shot to shot. It helps guide your eyes across the screen, creating a sense of action with what is essentially a lot of still images. This further personalizes certain characters, lending narrative weight to how they move and act. Apollo plods through scenes with a tired discomfort, for example, while Medusa almost seems to slither with her more rhythmic and weave-like movements. But more importantly, it adds to the spectacle of each musical performance, drawing inspiration from the likes of Broadway or K-Pop music videos to create a beautiful animatic-style cinematic experience. Every musical number is a spectacle that further reinforces the importance of each choice you make but also helps you understand the vibe that you and the other singer are creating based on what choices you're making.
It certainly helps that Stray Gods has an incredible vocal cast, many of whom can draw you into the next musical performance within a few notes. The most notable standout is Laura Bailey (The Last of Us Part II's Abbey and Marvel's Spider-Man's Mary Jane), who absolutely dazzles as Grace, weaving back-and-forth between musical genres and giving the protagonist a lovable spunk. But there are plenty of other fun surprises as well. Anjali Bhimani (Overwatch's Symmetra and Apex Legends' Rampart) is phenomenal, absolutely killing it as Medusa during my favorite musical number of the entire game. And both Rahul Kohli (Midnight Mass' Sheriff Hassan and Harley Quinn's Scarecrow) and Allegra Clark (Apex Legends' Bloodhound and Dragon Age Inquisition's Josephine Montilyet) bring adorable energy to the monstrous Asterius and Hecate, respectively. I could go on, but the point is that the pool of actors for this game is a talented one, and each imbues their own character with energy that's simultaneously recognizable and yet brand-new.
And there's an intriguing element to that divide. For instance, Bhimani hisses with monstrous glee when it comes to Medusa, but there's an underlying sense of self-hatred and fear as well. The first part--the monster--matches the common preconception of Medusa but the latter does not. As you meet more and more characters, you'll see how all the actors use their musical performances to nudge certain questions into your brain, convincing you to go uncover what has changed about these well-known mythical figures. And the desire to tug on those threads and unveil more of this world compels you forward with earnest curiosity, having the likely intended effect of drawing you further into the overarching mystery of both who killed Calliope and why. As you better understand who these people were and what they are now, the answer to those questions becomes ever more compelling to pursue.
Stray Gods: A Roleplaying Musical is one of the coolest games I've played in a while and I imagine its most powerful moments will sit with me for quite a bit. Having seen cluttered whiteboards that provide a glimpse of the massive branching storylines in some RPGs and visual novels, doing something like that but for songs--a means of communication that does not follow the conventions of conversations at all--is incredibly impressive. But the folks over at Summerfall Studios managed to pull it off, creating a game that explores the extraordinary healing power that music can have in our lives and wrapping it all up in a compelling murder mystery where the consequences of your choices can have drastic effects on a weakening Greek pantheon just trying to survive in the modern day. This is a fantastic visual novel and I cannot wait to play through it again.
Within minutes of firing up the first episode of The Expanse: A Telltale Series, you'll be faced with a series of life-or-death choices. Though some choices may seem trivial at first, nearly all of them result in "[character name] will remember that" appearing in the top-left corner of the screen, leaving you to wonder what exactly will happen if that choice comes back to bite you a few episodes later. These kinds of narrative choices and consequences are a staple of the Telltale brand and, at first glance, one might mistake The Expanse for a clone of the studio's previous games, reskinned to reflect the appropriate franchise--but this couldn't be further from the truth.
Upon closer inspection, it becomes clear that Deck Nine Games--the studio that developed Life Is Strange: True Colors and is Telltale's co-developer for this project--has quite literally added a new dimension to the standard Telltale formula. In The Expanse, players can freely explore the three-dimensional game environment, a first for Telltale, as the studio's previous games provided very little opportunity for exploration and freedom of movement.
This change to a standard third-person perspective works wonders for immersion, especially given the game's large, detailed environments. The ability to hear Camina Drummer's inner monologue--something never seen on the show--also plays a huge part in bringing the game to life, creating a sense of connection between the player and the game's protagonist. In the television show, Drummer is known to be rather reclusive, rarely sharing her feelings aloud. The decision to let us hear her inner thoughts is a bold choice, but it works incredibly well due to the game's stellar writing and the performance of Drummer's voice actress.
Cara Gee (who plays Drummer in The Expanse television series) reprises her role once again and Gee's powerful, emotive performance makes all the difference--it's hard to imagine the game without her. Unlike the television show, Telltale's The Expanse allows us to see a new, slightly more vulnerable side of the normally reserved, enigmatic Belter by serving as a prequel that details what Drummer's life was like leading up to the events of the television show. Interacting with objects will prompt Drummer to audibly share her thoughts on the matter at hand, and this mechanic is an excellent way to introduce Drummer to players who may not be familiar with the show.
Of course, the game also includes a group of new characters, all of whom serve aboard the scavenger ship Artemis alongside Drummer. From the gruff, elderly pilot, Khan, to the contrasting personalities of the Morozov twins, Arlen and Rayen, Telltale's characters feel genuine, like they could just as easily fit into The Expanse television show or the book series upon which it is based. Your opinion of each character will change wildly as the narrative unfolds, but it always feels like these characters are each growing in a specific direction, not constantly wavering back and forth between trustworthy ally and loose cannon with a hair-trigger. It's a sharp contrast to the supporting characters of previous Telltale games, like Kenny from The Walking Dead series, who frequently bounced between "helpful companion" and "selfish idiot who randomly turns on me when the plot decides it needs a twist."
Since Telltale's The Expanse is a prequel to the television series, Drummer's plot-armor is thicker than the hull of the Artemis, but her fellow crew members aren't as lucky. At the end of the fifth and final episode, players can find themselves with no crew members left alive except Drummer, or with the entire squad saved, depending on the choices Drummer makes. Despite being only five episodes long (with a sixth DLC episode set to release this fall), the game's characters are intriguing and believable enough for players to quickly form attachments, making it all the more devastating when you fail to save one of them.
Aside from the ability to freely roam and explore, the most notable difference between The Expanse and Telltale's previous projects is the higher-quality animation. Deck Nine's commitment to striking visuals is immediately apparent within the first few minutes of the game. Instead of the cartoonish, stylized character designs of Telltale's previous games, The Expanse boasts more realistic graphics and cutscenes that don't constantly cut to a close-up shot to hide wonky animations--mainly because there weren't any wonky animations in need of hiding in my time with it. Cutscenes are extremely detailed but even outside of cutscenes, the game's interior environments feel lived-in and alive, while exteriors set in the vacuum of space feel appropriately enormous for a franchise called The Expanse.
The game's biggest visual triumph is undoubtedly the characters' facial motion-capture and animations. Previous Telltale games often struggled with facial expressions, leaving characters looking stiff and strange. But Deck Nine's animations are smooth and realistic, with characters often sharing knowing looks that make you wonder what they're thinking, or having brief exchanges with Drummer that consist solely of body language and facial expressions. The positive effect of these moments cannot be overstated--every frame of every cutscene is executed with purpose, and between the characters' lovable (and sometimes love-to-hateable) personalities and the developer's determination to create cinematic cutscenes, it often feels like you're directing an episode of the television show, not just playing a game.
But one of the game's strongest features is that, above all, it achieves its goal through a story that is strong enough to stand on its own. Some cutscenes have awkward gaps and pauses between lines, but it's a rare occurrence, and you'll never meet an NPC who spends a solid three minutes word-vomiting exposition at you before sending you on a fetch quest, which is a major plus. When it comes to both dialogue and actions, Drummer is almost always faced with only two options, but surprisingly, those options never feel like binary "good" and "bad" choices. Drummer isn't simply good or bad, a renegade or a paragon--she's just Drummer, a woman who has had to make incredibly difficult decisions all her life. It's rare that you'll come across a choice where one option immediately feels like it's the obvious "right" choice, unless you've found environmental context clues that point you in (what appears to be) the right direction.
Despite the game's narrative arc hinging on various dialogue choices, The Expanse strongly adheres to a "show, don't tell" policy, using environmental storytelling in a way that makes the game's levels fun to explore even when there's no loot to be had. It's always worth taking a look around, especially when on board the Artemis. In fact, the Artemis is where you should do the most looking around, as objects Drummer can inspect often reveal helpful clues that make difficult decisions much easier. If Drummer notices a defaced poster on the wall, the next time you inspect it, there may be more graffiti added to it. If she comments on an unsecured item in a crew member's quarters and returns later, it will likely be lying on the floor in several pieces due to getting knocked around in zero-g.
Unfortunately, zero-g movement is the game's biggest flaw. It looks gorgeous and realistic from a visual perspective, but in practice, using Drummer's vac-suit thrusters sends you floating across the infinite expanse of space at roughly the same speed as an exhausted tortoise. The suit has two speeds: slow, and slightly less-slow. When you're hunting down an item for a side quest in a massive ship graveyard, the realization that you need to backtrack is likely to be accompanied by a frustrated groan due to the amount of time it will take to retrace your steps. If you drift too far into space, a notification appears, informing you that you're leaving the safe zone. This, combined with the dark and often disorienting locations Drummer must explore early on in the game can make some levels more frustrating than they need to be.
Another weak spot is the collectible mechanic. As you progress through the game, you'll be able to collect various valuables scavenged from derelict ships. Drummer often comments on what the item is, and which NPC crew member might find it useful. But there's no inventory for these items to be seen in, no opportunity to give them to anyone, and it's very difficult to tell if they're just there to give completionists something to do, or if they actually affect the plot. The main collectibles you'll need to worry about are made very obvious--they appear as side quests in the game's mission log, and are separated from the scavenged loot. The biggest problem here is that each level has a point of no return at the end, but it's never clear what exactly will trigger it. In Chapter 2, for instance, the main quest tasks you with finding three fuel sources, and also gives you two side quests with additional items that are important to specific characters. But if you complete the main quest before locating the side quest items, you'll immediately be thrown into a cutscene and will not be able to return and continue your search unless you restart the episode. A simple prompt asking you if you're ready to leave once you've completed a main quest (which often consists of several stages, making it even harder to discern how close you are to finishing it) would instantly solve this problem.
Still, the game shines in just about every other category. One particularly impressive feat the developers somehow managed to pull off was making Drummer's words and actions believable, no matter which choices you make while playing as her. Whether it's amputating an innocent man's leg in the middle of a spacewalk or deciding to "space" a troublemaker (read: toss them out of an open airlock with no vac-suit), Drummer executes whatever option you choose in a manner that doesn't seem out of character for her, even when the options presented are polar opposites. Though Drummer's dialogue response options are usually limited to only two choices, these options almost always work flawlessly when it comes to authenticity. The dialogue choice descriptions are short, but The Expanse avoids forcing the player to choose a line of dialogue based on a misleading description--Drummer doesn't blurt out something entirely unexpected in a tone you didn't intend for her to use. You won't find yourself thinking, "I didn't mean for her to say it like that," an issue often seen when RPG dialogue options are too short or too vague.
The game's writing is, without question, its greatest strength. You'll laugh out loud at everything from snappy comebacks to humorously penned datapad entries. But just like the television show and book series, the game's sense of humor thankfully does not suffer from a Marvel-esque need to throw in a self-conscious joke every time there's a moment of tension, instead managing to stay perfectly balanced in the "Goldilocks zone" when it comes to comic relief. Moments of levity are there when appropriate, but intense scenes are given time to breathe--as are tender moments between Drummer and her love interest.
The chemistry between Drummer and Martian ship mechanic Maya Castillo is palpable from the moment they meet. Ultimately, it's up to you to decide whether Drummer will pursue her romantically, and given the fact that Maya's the only romanceable NPC in the game, pursuing her seems like a forgone conclusion. In most RPGs, romance and survival aren't inherently tied together. In The Expanse, romance is a moral conundrum from the moment it presents itself. The Artemis is a small ship--people are bound to find out, and crew members will often allude to the idea that one person or another is being shown favoritism even before you have the opportunity to pursue Maya. Other realistic dilemmas also result from this potential romance. If you don't respond to Maya's romantic overtures, will the offer be gone for good, or will Drummer get another chance to make a move? The game gives itself room to evoke these questions of morality and logistics by focusing on a single relationship. One would think that Maya's presence alone means it's meant to be. Perhaps it is, but the game's atmosphere constantly communicates reminders that every move Drummer makes has a butterfly effect on the rest of the game. The biggest romantic dilemma most RPG protagonists typically face is choosing which NPC to woo. But The Expanse forces you to answer better, more interesting questions. Not just, "Am I interested in her?" but "Is this a good idea right now? Is it a good idea at all?"
Telltale's Expanse is a masterclass in narrative design, and subsequent playthroughs will reveal that, unlike some of the studio's previous offerings, almost every single choice the player makes does have a unique outcome. The Expanse doesn't present you with the illusion of choice, where you're constantly making decisions, but only a few of them actually matter. It cleverly utilizes environmental clues, subtle facial animations, and other non-verbal hints to allow you to find answers to your questions, rather than spoon-feeding you expositional dialogue. Whether your goal is learning more about Virgil, the ship's secretive medic, or simply figuring out who stole Khan's BBQ sauce, Telltale's Expanse leaves no stone unturned, and no loose end untied.
More than that, The Expanse has what I've been searching for in Telltale games since The Walking Dead Season 1: soul. Characters don't feel disposable, death doesn't feel inevitable, and happiness doesn't seem as hopelessly out-of-reach as it does in Game of Thrones or The Walking Dead, which makes for a refreshing change. The Expanse is not populated with throwaway characters who already feel doomed to be a victim for the sake of drama, or soulless zombies who can be killed without a second thought. If you fire a weapon in The Expanse, you are changing the life of a real human being, and the game makes sure you know it. Because every NPC companion can be saved, being unable to save one of them (or having to make the painful choice not to) hits hard, even if that character poses a significant risk to Drummer or the rest of the crew.
In a world of enormous RPGs with seemingly endless side quests and huge maps, The Expanse: A Telltale Series is a refreshing change of pace, and proves that sometimes, less is more. A great RPG doesn't necessarily need to be a 60-hour adventure; it just needs to convincingly drop you into another person's magboots. The Expanse does that and then some, forcing you to make difficult decisions that will haunt you long after you've finished playing.
Multiplayer games can live or die based on first impressions, with many games putting their best foot forward by immediately showing off the variety of content they have. Exoprimal takes the opposite approach, only sharing a slice of what it has to offer for the first few hours of gameplay, risking people bouncing off due to a lack of content. It holds back its best moments and more interesting missions for anyone willing to put in the work. Intense and exciting surprises await those who put in the time to reach them--something that it's well worth doing.
Exoprimal is a 5v5 shooter, except that the majority of your time will be spent shooting hordes of AI-controlled dinosaurs and not the enemy team. Players race to complete a series of objectives, culminating in a final one that sometimes has PvP elements. Most missions follow this structure, with a few special missions taking place later in the story that deviate from this formula.
The gameplay itself is primarily about fighting off hordes of dinosaurs, utilizing your suits specific loadout. The different Exosuits can drastically change the feel of combat, with damage focused suits utilizing a regular machine gun, grenade launcher, or melee weapons. The tank and healer classes each have their own weapons and feel, but with the addition of either a shield ability or healing ability. But the difference between Exosuits, like the counter-focused tank Murasame and the machine gun wielding Krieger tank, is more than enough to make each suit feel fresh in combat. All this brings a nice variety to gameplay, with the shooting itself feeling solid and the different enemies and weak points rewarding accurate shooting.
While it's a multiplayer-only game, Exoprimal has a story, but it implants this differently than most, with cutscenes tied to completing matches and special story-based missions appearing at certain milestones. The tone is similar to a low-budget sci-fi movie, with all of the main characters talking and acting like it's an '80s action film, with eye-rolling one-liners and unearned bravado. While the story and dialogue is extremely cheesy, it does mostly work in the context of its ridiculous story. The story is doled out in a series of cutscenes that unlock by finishing a certain number of multiplayer matches and small codex entries that are awarded at the end of each match.
The story of Exoprimal is overly complicated, with time travel and different dimensions drowning out the ongoing problem of dinosaur storms. It does a great job of not boring you with the details, saving that for the codex system, which contains smaller bits of information that you can engage with if you want to. Instead, the main cutscenes deal directly with the drama of your team seeing future and alternate versions of themselves, as well as the main conflict against the AI named Leviathan. It won't emotionally move you, but it's good enough that you probably won't skip the cutscenes when they do pop up. The convoluted story of a rogue AI forcing Exofighters from across different dimensions and timelines to fight simulated waves of dinosaurs in order to build the perfect exosuit isn't super compelling, but the way it impacts the actual missions is.
The first example of this is when Magnum, an NPC Exofighter, goes rogue to enter one of your multiplayer instances to collect data on Leviathan, prompting the AI to get angry. Leviathan ups the difficulty, literally, spawning in the first appearance of a massive raptor storm. In previous missions, you would be tasked with taking down a few hundred raptors in a single instance, but this time you need to take down over 1,000 to clear the mission. This difficulty spike came as a welcome surprise nearly a dozen matches in, especially as the repetitiveness of those early missions begins to wear on you, and Exoprimal continues to mix it up regularly from there.
The variety of objectives in multiplayer increases drastically, with capture points and barriers that must be destroyed with giant hammers you charge by killing dinosaurs. There are also special co-op missions, where both teams work together to fight massive waves of special dinosaurs and even raid bosses against a neo T-Rex. The co-op missions are where the gameplay of Exoprimal truly shines, unleashing an overwhelming number of dinosaurs to fight against. While the first few hours of Exorprimal could use more variety, there is plenty of new content to see later on.
In addition to the new missions, you get more customization options for your Exosuits based on how long you play and your match performance. There are 10 suits at launch, split into the damage, tank, and support categories. Each category has one suit to unlock by reaching a certain player level and spending the required in-game currency, and each suit has its own individual level. While you can't customize the majority of abilities each suit has, you can choose one rig, which offers a specific skill. In addition to that, there are modules that you unlock that can improve overall stats or exosuit-specific abilities. There are far more modules than you have slots for, so you can tailor your selection to your playstyle. If you like getting headshots as Vigilant, you can pick a module that rewards hitting those skillshots. If you prefer relying on Vigilant's freeze ability, there is a module that improves that skill. While none of these modules feel like game-altering bonuses, the ability to tailor each suit to your playstyle feels rewarding.
Capcom made the smart choice of not limiting the number of each suit-type a team can have. Everyone can wear the exact same suit, five different damage suits, or a classic setup with two tanks, two damage-dealers, and a healer, letting your squad implement a wide range of tactics. It also doesn't lock you into a losing setup, either, with the option to switch both your Exosuit and rig at any time during a match with no consequences for doing so. Since most matches are a race, being able to swap quickly when something isn't working is incredibly important and makes it feel like you always have a chance to make a comeback.
Another important part of the gameplay are the dinosaurs, of which there are a ton. The most common enemy are the raptors, which primarily serve as cannon fodder meant to overwhelm a team more than anything else. As for the rest of the enemies, each one has something unique about it, giving a different feel. The Triceratops has a hard head, making it take almost no damage from the front, and the Stegosaurus has a loud cry, which disables all non-movement abilities of anyone in range. There are also the neo dinosaurs, which have been modified to have special abilities. These typically include using different elemental attacks, like fire or ice, making for a challenging foe. The stronger dinosaurs force better teamwork to overcome, rewarding smart gameplay and forcing you to adapt on the fly.
Leveling up and completing missions offers reward, but the majority of these feel insignificant. Unlocking different modules is great, but the other rewards you earn are loot boxes, awarding random cosmetics and coins, which are used to upgrade modules and unlock new Exosuits. Some of the cosmetics are interesting, like the Krieger suit that turns you into a giant playing card or the Zephyr skin that looks like a Power Ranger, but most are simple color swaps. As for the coins, the economy of Exoprimal is a bit broken. I had what felt like an unlimited number of coins fairly quickly and was able to fully upgrade any module I wanted without feeling like I'm short on cash. These rewards being unexciting meant that the only driving force to boot up another match was seeing what sort of missions Exoprimal still hadn't shown me, and the thrill of fighting dinosaurs.
There is a battle pass to progress, but the cosmetic rewards in the premium tier are only marginally better than the selection of free cosmetics. There are a few legendary rewards, but those come near the end of the pass, which takes awhile to progress through. There aren't any challenges, so the only progress comes from completing matches, which wouldn't be a problem if it weren't so slow.
Another flaw of Exoprimal is the matchmaking system, which doesn't offer much control over which matches you get placed into. You can choose either PvP- or PvE-focused missions, or select both for an XP bonus, almost forcing you to pick both. You can't select individual objective types, nor can you queue specifically for the big co-op missions. While this system does typically give a good mix of mission types, it does have one major flaw. The early missions, which have simple objectives and only simple dinosaurs, don't get taken out once you progress in the story. This means you can go from a nail-biting raid fight to fighting only a handful of raptors at once, which feels quite boring and simplistic with late-game modules and upgrades.
While Exoprimal's early hours of repetitive and simple missions will likely drive some people away, its later surprises are a delight for those willing to give it the necessary time. The escalation of difficulty and the wide variety of objectives introduced later on in the shooter gives it fresh life several hours in. Fighting through an ocean of dinosaurs is a ton of fun and the variety of enemies keeps you from falling into a repetitive combat loop. The story isn't anything special, but tying it to new multiplayer content makes progressing it a bit more compelling. Exoprimal is ultimately a great time and a unique multiplayer experience.
Venba is a game that has been on my radar since its announcement trailer was released in 2020. It comes from a mainly South Asian development team, with its aesthetics, character designs, and sound design drawing its inspiration from the culture to tell a story about a South Asian family trying to reclaim and archive their own underrepresented culture after immigrating to Canada. It is an incredibly ambitious title to pursue when many video games do not try to engage with having cultures or identities outside of the white/western represented.
Venba is about trying to figure out your own identity (or sometimes lack thereof) in an all-new environment. This new environment is not kind or accommodating to people who are not considered white, and if you are underrepresented from a culture of color you are swayed and forced to assimilate, leaving what made you unique behind to survive this new place.
Here, you will be able to use Venba’s mother’s recipe book on how to make the dish, but some of the instructions are too unclear to follow accurately. This difficult-to-decipher recipe book creates interesting obstacles throughout the game when making different dishes, so it is up to you as the player to make use of the surrounding instructions and diagrams to fill in the gaps. This obstacle starts off with one or two lines from the recipe missing to later on becomes a whole page with just diagrams to work with and no legible instructions (for non-Tamil readers) to tackle cooking a meal properly. The recipe book mechanic aptly showcases the game’s narrative through its gameplay mechanics, allowing players to feel what it’s like to want to express your own culture from your roots and familial bonds, but not being able to completely translate it in challenging environments.
In this case, Venba does not have her mother’s consistent guidance directly as she is back home in India, but through a secondary resource with the recipe book it can be accomplished with a lot of trial and error. It’s not just about making the dish; Venba thinks about how her idlis, in comparison to her mother’s, are not as soft or as fluffy, but strives to ensure that maybe they could be just as good with the aid of the recipe book granted to her. It is about doing the dish justice, but also bringing a taste of home to an unfamiliar new place.
The game does allow you to ask for hints and provides background information on what you are cooking. For example, you can learn that idlis are a breakfast staple and if they are not stacked properly or steamed with a towel, the batter can leak, spill, or not cook thoroughly. This context then provides guidance on how the dish should come together. Thankfully, the game is very accommodating in giving help to progress the cooking segments.
The attempts you make to create these dishes mirror the struggles Venba herself faces in trying to recover these lost recipes. You will need to place ingredients in bowls or containers in the proper order, stack them correctly, or sift certain ingredients a few times to make sure you use all of the ingredients you are given and that none are wasted. It can get tricky fairly quickly, but it is supposed to be tricky trying to use an old recipe book with scratches, stains, and damaged pages. Cooking requires more steps later on and provides enough of a challenge that you may often use hints for some of the steps. You can play chapters again to complete the cooking segments without errors but, unfortunately, you will need to parse the dialogue/story you have already read to attempt cooking those recipes. There is no option to just dive outright into the previously played cooking sections.
These cooking segments are inspiring and when you see the finished product, it can make you feel empowered to attempt these dishes at home. Yes--Indian food can be ordered from a restaurant, but making your own creates opportunities to bring unique flavors and ingredient choices, as well as create a personal connection to a dish in a way that a restaurant cannot replicate. Food is not just about being satiated or staving off hunger, it is also about reminiscing, salvaging, and appreciating where you (or others) come from; especially in an environment that is not even accommodating to gathering the ingredients for your own precious dishes due to cost. In one example, this is highlighted when Venba uses idlis to reveal important life-changing information to her husband early on in the game: Food is more than just something people eat, it can be used to communicate and express yourself.
The story jumps to different years in the life of Venba and Paavalan. Their son Kavin’s early years are depicted and we get to see him heading off to university too. The story jumps around to these different years with different subject matters explored, but themes and adversities that many immigrants and/or South Asians directly face remain close. One such example shows Kavin having his friends anglicize his name to “Kevin” because he wants to fit in, or not eating his lunch at school because he knows the other kids will make fun of the smell.
These experiences could be seen as generic or cliche, but they are what many immigrants of color face. Anglicizing or shortening your name to fit in and not be a burden because someone cannot use your full name or its correct spelling is extremely common amongst South Asians. These depictions are an opportunity to explore the game’s themes without overly relying on cooking, and the game uses them well. These scenes can also be triggering and unearth memories of the past, as they depict common experiences South Asians tend to face from an early age trying to navigate their community. Venba was a teacher in India who could easily joke and excite her class to learn, but in Canada, she finds trouble relating to her students and struggles to be accepted for a position as a teacher. And Paavalan faces similar difficulties despite having a Bachelor of Science in Physics. It is very true to life with the conversations I have had with Indians in my local community, and it’s true of most South Asian communities that well-educated and accomplished people find themselves with little to no prospects in foreign societal structures.
I cannot help but relate to many of the emotionally resonant scenes and situations these characters face, even though they are not my own exact experiences as a South Asian immigrant. This is a great indication that the developers have achieved their goals.
Outside of the cooking mechanics, you'll pick dialogue options in conversations with other characters. There is replayability in making different dialogue choices or going back to create past dishes without making mistakes. Still, since the game has an extremely specific narrative throughline, these slight dialogue choices feel negligible. I would have been more content to follow along to read all of the game’s dialogue with all of the lines presented rather than having to go back to experience a few lines I missed because of the dialogue option I chose, especially since the changes and additions aren’t significant. The cooking segments are about having agency as Venba, but I felt choosing dialogue options was an unnecessary addition.
These themes all unfold with nuance and meticulously show that this family, their lives, and their experiences are not seen as important as the others in their community--that they will always be outsiders. But even with all of these disasters the family faces, there is one constant: food. With food, you dive directly in as a player making different South Asian cuisines while Indian music with lyrics plays—a process that delights in letting Venba and the family be unapologetically South Asian and find strength in it.
Its original soundtrack is inspired by the Tamil music the developers heard growing up, and I could not help but nod along through the cooking segments. It is refreshing and rejuvenating to hear this kind of music in a game. Personally, I do not listen to Indian or Tamil music at all, but this soundtrack is so intricately crafted with beautiful vocals that it will be added to my playlist due to the positive experiences this game has left me with. In these moments of cooking, Venba and her family can distance themselves from their daily onslaught of problems to reach a peaceful state of mind by emboldening themselves with their culture, and that is elevated by the game’s original soundtrack. It all comes together to reassure you directly and gives you a glimmer of hope that these characters will be fine. Eventually. Hopefully.
On larger recipes such as the biriyani that includes layering, it will take much longer to complete, but because it is a cooking segment that takes longer than previous ones, I found that the music in sections such as that loops too abruptly and made me flinch in disdain. The abnormal music looping feels irregular and did take me out of the game’s focus a few times.
The game’s storybook art style compliments the game’s cooking segments nicely in a similar way, especially as it reflects the journey of these characters. It very much looks and feels like a cartoon you would watch or a popup book you would open from India. Throughout the game, you can visually tell that Kavin is drifting away from his culture and his family more, so his dialogue boxes reflect that gradual shift by being tarnished. This starts out as an inkling, but when you initially catch it, it really is a subtle way to show this shift. It feels like a natural way to foreshadow the theme.
Having South Asian developers, all with different experiences, means Venba is a narrative cooking adventure about an immigrant mother’s life that feels authentic. It is told through her culture’s cuisine in a way that will make players empathize and sympathize. But it isn’t downbeat or drab, it’s vivid, colorful, and inspiring.
Its ending, however, had me sit there and grapple with my thoughts after its two-hour playtime, thinking about how it is never too late in life to discover or rediscover your racial/cultural identity as a South Asian individual. Sometimes a recipe for idli can be the first step in finding the resolve to be yourself and discovering pride in your roots.
The premise of Illusion Island sees Mickey, Minnie, Donald, and Goofy getting invited to an off-the-grid location for a charming summer picnic. This turns out to be a ruse to bring them to the island of Monoth, which is reeling from having three magical tomes stolen. The cartoon crew needs to recover these books to both prevent impending disaster and get that tasty outdoor outing they were promised. It's a simplistic story but it's presented well enough: Important events are depicted in lengthy animated cutscenes, while more gameplay-focused happenings are usually delivered through text boxes. If there's any real fault in the narrative, it's that it often tries to be a bit too witty.
Ultimately, though, the plot is just a means to set our heroes off on an adventure through Monoth, a bright and colorful world featuring a multitude of different biomes ranging from forests and farmland to cloudy, star-studded gardens to mechanical mailrooms to ocean depths. Everything's connected through a massive but tightly-designed map in a way that keeps load times to a minimum and allows one area to visually flow seamlessly into the next.
It's impressive just how good Illusion Island looks. The backgrounds are colorful, vibrant, and full of little animations and details that give them a sense of life. The animations on the characters and enemies are buttery-smooth, with a bouncy, squishy toon edge that makes their motions pop. The attention to detail extends as far as giving each of the four playable characters unique animations for the same skills: While Minnie's floating skill sees her using a parasol, Goofy maintains airtime with blasts from a comically oversized mustard bottle, and poor Donald gets stuck frantically waving two feathers in his hands. The superb visuals make watching the game feel inviting and engaging.
Those visuals are what carry the beginning of the game, however, because the initial portion of Illusion Island is downright dull. Illusion Island is unusual in that it completely de-emphasizes combat in favor of pure platforming and exploration--there's not even so much as a cartoon mallet to conk enemies with. But when you're starting out, those movement skills are limited, and enemy and obstacle variety is practically nonexistent, making for very basic platforming and dodging until you get a few more skills for the characters' repertoire. The first 90 minutes or so of Illusion Island are passable at best and a chore at worst. It's only when your movement options expand and more distinct and challenging threats are introduced that things really start to feel fun.
Some of the skills you'll acquire include a double jump, a wall jump, a grappling hook, a ground pound, and a hover. What starts out as very simple platforming challenges quickly and surprisingly becomes more difficult. At first, I felt like the game's platforming was intentionally designed in a simple manner for younger players, but towards the endgame I was encountering devious platforming challenges that asked for careful timing, fully testing my knowledge of the game's mechanics. Skills flow into each other smoothly with easy-to-grasp controls, helping make the challenges of the later portions much more manageable--and, as part of the game's family-oriented appeal, there are numerous difficulty-adjustment options for health, controls, and overall timing should players want to use them.
Adding to the fun of movement and the challenge of exploration are a wealth of hidden rooms containing goodies and collectibles: Glimts that reveal pieces of a puzzle, Tokuns with pictures and bios of all of Monoth's residents, and memorabilia from classic cartoons featuring Mickey and the gang. Only one of these has a substantial gameplay effect--getting enough Glimts grants a permanent health upgrade--but the others are equally fun to find and look at on your collection screen.
My personal favorite collectible, however, is the Hidden Mickeys. Well-known to Disney aficionados, Hidden Mickeys are pieces of background architecture shaped like the well-known mouse ears and are often a part of scenery design in Disney parks. There are lots of Hidden Mickeys in the scenery of Monoth, and after you get the camera item, you'll be able to snap photos in front of them, and each one has a uniquely silly selfie accompanying it. As fun as exploration is, however, it's hindered by the lack of fast travel: You aren't able to travel freely to checkpoints until almost the very end of the game, meaning that backtracking to use your new skills in previously-visited places is a very unappealing prospect.
Every so often during the six-to-nine hours a run-through of Illusion Island comprises, you'll have a boss encounter. Since the gang lacks offensive abilities, bosses are usually designed around defeating them in other ways--generally by breaking a set of targets surrounding them using a movement skill while dodging increasingly dangerous hazards. It's an interesting approach to boss design, but it loses appeal fairly quickly since smashing a bunch of unrelated objects to deal damage doesn't feel satisfying. The boss battles often tend to drag, as well, going through multiple phases with little variation aside from the number and severity of hazards you need to dodge. Ultimately, what should be a high point of the game winds up being one of its worst elements.
I've mostly talked about the single-player experience, but one of the key points of Illusion Island is that it allows for up to four players to explore at once in local co-op--a rarity for the genre. This does change up the overall flow of the game fairly significantly, as it makes exploring and collecting much faster and reduces the risk a single player has to assume. For example, in a big room with several collectibles and switch puzzle mechanics, a group can designate a player to be the switch-hitter while others go after the goodies, rather than having one player do everything and backtrack. Multiplayer also makes the boss battles feel a lot less plodding since multiple targets can be taken out at the same time. There are also several skills that can only be used during multiplayer. It's a very cool feature--especially for family play since each player can set their own health when they start, including invincibility--and the fact that the map design works for both single- and multiplayer is quite commendable.
Illusion Island has a lot going for it: It looks great, controls wonderfully, is packed with charm and character, offers enjoyable exploration, and features a memorable multiplayer experience. If you're a big fan of the genre, you'll get a kick seeing little references to other all-time classics, too. However, the slow start and the blase boss battles put a bit of a damper on the whole thing, especially if you plan on going on this trip solo. It's well worth playing provided you can get over the initial hump, and even better if you've got a younger family member to share the journey with. It may fall short of being an all-time gem, but Illusion Island's still earned its place in the Disney Vault of Gaming Goodness.
Remnant 2 is the kind of sequel that improves upon its predecessor in almost every facet. The third-person gunplay has been tightened up and refined, there's more color and variety to its diverse locales, and the various RPG elements and character progression have been greatly expanded upon, giving you more options to construct a unique build along with the incentive to delve into the game's near-limitless replayability. "Dark Souls with guns" was used as shorthand to describe Remnant: From the Ashes, and although that label wasn't wrong, it also wasn't representative of the full picture. The first game stood out amongst a bevy of other Souls-likes because of the ways it deviated from the formula, and Remnant 2 continues to build on those foundations with a more dynamic and robust action-adventure that only falters in a couple of areas.
The first game wasn't without its flaws, either, an underbaked story chief among them. Unfortunately, Remnant 2 doesn't fare much better in this regard, offering another forgettable tale that lacks personality and engaging stakes, almost to the point where it feels like a copy and paste of the original game. Even the setup is essentially the same, beginning on the dilapidated streets of a post-apocalyptic Earth that's been ravaged by an interdimensional being known as The Root. You eventually arrive at a small settlement called Ward 13--the same hub area as the first game, albeit in a slightly different spot--and despite being an injured newcomer, your custom character is immediately entrusted with a crucial task that quickly leads to a mission that decides the fate of all realms.
Contrivances aside, it's difficult to care about the overarching story when the world as you know it consists of roughly a dozen people who might as well be cardboard cutouts. Characters such as McCabe and Rigs return, but they're one-note vendors like before, while the friend you arrived with and risked your life to save performs the same static role. There are more interesting characters found in the various realms you'll visit throughout the game; however, the game's procedurally generated structure ensures that it takes a few playthroughs to form a clear picture of the lore and composition of each world, and by that point you'll have probably forgotten everything you learned previously, such as the abundance of abstract concepts verbally thrown your way. The ending's emotional payoff lands flat as a result.
These narrative failings are one of the few areas where Remnant 2's procedural generation actively works against it, because its ambitious implementation is otherwise excellent. Much like the first game, the layout of each realm and the dungeons therein are randomly generated with every playthrough. Enemy placement, meanwhile, changes whenever you return to a location, reload after death, or rest at a checkpoint. These procedurally generated combat scenarios add an element of unpredictability to each enemy encounter that isn't found in other Souls-likes and ratchets up the tension, but Remnant 2 also takes things a step further by dynamically generating almost every aspect of your adventure. Boss fights, side quests, the NPCs you'll meet, and even the opening tutorial all differ from player to player and from one playthrough to another. My first venture in the realm of Losomn, for example, saw me take a grimy trek through the ankle-high waters of a repugnant sewer, yet upon returning in the game's Adventure Mode--which I'll get to soon--I happened upon a derelict sanatorium instead. This creepy, run-down facility featured its own distinct storyline, characters, unique weapons, and sequence of shootouts and boss fights, and this degree of variation and unpredictability is crucial because you're encouraged to revisit areas in order to supplement Remnant 2's reworked buildcrafting.
Upon arriving in Ward 13, you're asked to pick from a selection of distinct Archetypes. These classes are similar to those found in Remnant: From the Ashes, with your choice dictating your starting weapons and armor. This time around, however, each Archetype also has a number of perks and skills associated with it, which unlock as you level up. These are based on your chosen Archetype's role, whether you're a Medic, a class like the Hunter that focuses on ranged damage and marking enemies, or the Challenger and its close-range proficiency. I opted for the Handler purely because it gives you a canine companion to fight beside. There's just something about battling monstrous hordes in tandem with man's best friend that makes perfect sense. Aside from kiting damage and attacking enemies, one of my dog's perks allowed them to revive me if I was downed, while others would increase stats like damage and movement speed when we were near one another. Each Archetype can also equip one of three unique skills that are governed by a cooldown meter, typically enhancing one of your classes' specialized abilities.
While Archetypes were an afterthought in the previous game, these changes to how they work in the sequel make your initial selection an important one, placing Remnant 2 more in line with other class-based shooters. Once you've picked a class, however, you're not locked into that decision for the rest of the game. You can discover each of the other Archetypes while playing, though doing so is easier said than done--I only found two during my playthrough. That said, I could swap out my initial selection for either one at any time. Once you've reached the max level of 10 on a particular Archetype, however, you can then equip dual Archetypes, thus unlocking double the perks and skills. This is where Remnant 2's buildcrafting comes into its own, letting you mix and max disparate Archetypes to create some interesting amalgamations. Whether you're merging a DPS class with a support type or combining the long-range perks of the Hunter with the short-range aptitude of the Challenger, there are some fun concoctions to be made.
Outside of this, you can also equip a plethora of rings, amulets, and mods to further strengthen your build. These mods can be applied to weapons to create alternate fire modes, such as letting you unleash a helix of missiles that divide into smaller rockets on impact, or surprising enemies by launching an egg that cracks open to reveal a horde of angry space crabs. You can't attain all of these mods and trinkets in a single playthrough, but rather than starting the campaign over again, you can simply hop into Adventure mode. This is essentially a shortened version of the campaign, giving you the chance to replay a single realm if you want to search for unique drops or see all of the different permutations of bosses, areas, and so on, without starting from scratch. It's an ingenious way of extending the game's lifespan while also letting you upgrade your character without grinding well-trodden ground.
It helps that Remnant 2's no-nonsense combat is much improved over the first game. Movement is responsive to the point where it never feels like you're fighting the controls in order to evade danger. The assortment of weapons on offer is generally fun to use, too, each packing a satisfying punch as you send lead coursing through bulky robots and slithery tree monsters. It's the sort of game that gets better the longer you play, as your build comes into focus and you begin to hone in on your preferences and unlock some of the more creative boss weapons. Combat isn't outstanding in any one area, but it's rewarding enough, and the core gameplay loop quickly digs in its hooks to the point that it becomes difficult to put down. The only time this feeling dissipates is during your journey through the final realm, when a lack of respite leads to frustration. Rather than focusing on challenging combat puzzles, these final few battles are more like acts of attrition as you're constantly swarmed by mobs of enemies. On numerous occasions, I was revived by my dog only to die before being able to move again. It's a difficulty spike that feels cheap and unearned, especially since Remnant 2 rectifies a similar issue the first game suffered from where boss fights were regularly saddled with too many mobs.
The realms you're sent to explore are at least more visually arresting this time around, featuring a broader color palette than the frequent browns and greys of the first game. The clash of art styles sometimes feels a little slapdash, but the concept of these divergent realms means there doesn't necessarily need to be a cohesive throughline. One moment you'll be traversing a gaudy castle adorned in gold and decorated with opulent statues, while an hour or so later you might be blasting rifle-toting villagers as the game indulges its From Software comparisons by whisking you off to a Yharnam-adjacent town. It's not just the visuals that have improved either. The addition of more verticality ensures that enemies can appear from almost anywhere, while the size of each area has expanded, making long-range weapons like sniper rifles more viable.
Remnant 2 is exactly what you want from a sequel, such is the way it expands and improves upon the first game's ideas. It's not likely to blow you away, but the core gameplay loop--built on rewarding combat, an ever-expanding repertoire of skills and abilities, and the randomness of its procedural generation--latches on and refuses to let go. The final realm is disappointing because of an artificial difficulty spike, and the story is still lackluster and easy to ignore, but those looking for a solid and malleable shooter won't go far wrong with Remnant 2.
One of the most prominent apps on my phone is a simple to-do list app. I have a handful of recurring tasks every month or year, along with whatever I jot down as a reminder. It took me more than 20 hours with Pikmin 4 before I identified that the sensation it evoked was the same as that of completing my to-do list. Pikmin 4 is a game, sure, but it's also a sort of low-impact activity that gives you the same satisfaction of checking off a list of small, relatively simple tasks. That makes it pleasant to play, but that quality also makes it feel discordant when it briefly adds elements that provide a mild but noticeable degree of pressure--elements that make it more traditionally "game-like." On the whole, I think I prefer Pikmin the activity to Pikmin the game.
Pikmin 4 is meant to be a welcoming entry point for first-timers. The effort to bring you into the world of Pikmin begins very literally, with a character creator that allows you to make your own Rescue Crew member. The tools weren't robust enough to make a facsimile of me--very few beard options, for one thing--but I made a cute little man who I was proud of and wanted to see go on an adventure regardless. With my stubby adventurer fully formed, I was ready to explore the world of Pikmin.
For the uninitiated, that world is basically a suburban Earth-like backyard. While the diminutive characters never acknowledge it, it's very clear from your surroundings that you've crash landed in a garden. Your surroundings might be checkered with gardening tools or mounds of dirt left by whoever occupied the home. There's a playful sense of scale to the setting that recontextualizes common household objects as massive obstacles or helpful bridges. Sometimes, you fall into a steady rhythm of puzzle-solving and completely forget the nature of your surroundings, until you suddenly pull back and realize there was a giant metal pail or bag of sod just next to where you've been excavating.
Pikmin centers mostly around these environmental puzzles, as you guide your band of tiny plant-like Pikmin creatures around, seeking treasures and using their unique skills to traverse the world. A small puddle might seem like an impassable ocean to you and your Pikmin, but toss in a handful of Ice Pikmin and voila, the sea freezes up and you can cross it. Learning about each of the Pikmin's strengths and using them efficiently is part of the relaxing, chore-like cadence of Pikmin 4.
The blue Ice Pikmin is one of the new types introduced in Pikmin 4, and as the fresh newcomer, it gets its fair share of attention with puzzles built around its unique attributes. Inversely, some returning Pikmin seem to get the short end of the stick with barely anything to do at all--the white, poison-resistant Pikmin and pink, flying Pikmin were treated like specialist classes, and barely used at all. Rock Pikmin, meanwhile, are hearty little creatures that make noticeably short work of walls, but they appear so late in the game that they aren't as frequently used as they might have been. In fact, for most of my playtime, I stuck almost entirely with the same core team: an even distribution of red, yellow, and blue Pikmin.
Rounding out the regular cast of Pikmin is Oatchi, a two-legged dog-like creature. Unlike the Pikmin, which come along in different types and numbers, Oatchi is one-of-a-kind and your constant companion. It has the strength of multiple Pikmin, and you can split up to solve a puzzle. The best part about Oatchi, though, is that he's a rideable mount. Shortly after you get him, he grows big enough for you to ride, so you can hop aboard and explore the stage more quickly. This also makes it easier to visualize where all your Pikmin are. It's a little anxiety-inducing for me to have my Pikmin scattered loosely behind me, even if I know they're supposed to follow. Having them all clinging to Oatchi's fur (felt?) keeps them all together and tidy, and makes it very easy to visualize if one is lagging behind.
Keeping your Pikmin close at hand is important because they're vulnerable, both to environmental hazards as well as the critters who roam around the garden. Unlike the gardening implements and backyard decor, these aren't generally recognizable creatures. Most of the otherworldly animals will crush or swallow your Pikmin whole. You can always go back to the ship to gather more Pikmin, but I never liked losing the critters. Part of that is because the other characters in your earpiece mourn their loss, but I also just felt generally uncomfortable with losing a resource, even if it could be refreshed. Especially when encountering a new enemy, it would be easy to get caught up in a new attack pattern or trap that I hadn't anticipated and lose a couple of Pikmin.
Oatchi is useful in battle as well--not only can he attack enemies, but charging into enemies flings all of your Pikmin onto an enemy en masse, much faster than you could reasonably fling the little buggers manually. Freezing a large enemy with Ice Pikmin, for example, would risk losing some while you fling them one at a time, but charging into them with Oatchi freezes them almost immediately. Between the added security of keeping my Pikmin close and the combat advantages, riding on Oatchi became my standard mode of playing the game. Others might prefer to treat him like a super-Pikmin, who can dig out and transport treasure faster than the average critter. And while it's a small change, playing this way functionally looks and feels very different than a typical Pikmin game.
For the times that you absolutely can't avoid losing Pikmin, there is now a new Rewind Time feature. Previous Pikmin games have offered a do-over at the end of the day, but Pikmin 4 expands the concept by regularly saving. You can't manually save during a day, and it's easy to see how that would be too exploitable, but the auto-saves typically happen every 2-5 minutes, so you never lose too much progress. For those who are very protective of their Pikmin, it's a huge convenience feature to just rewind a few minutes and try an encounter again if you ran into trouble in the interim.
In the main exploration areas, which make up the bulk of the game, the Pikmin-tossing combat is incidental and mostly player-initiated. You can almost always keep your distance from a creature if you don't feel adequately prepared, so you're very rarely caught off-guard. Taking on enemies gets a much heavier emphasis in two new modes, which help break up the pacing with varying degrees of success.
The more Pikmin 4 leans into fashioning itself after a more traditional game, with competition and fail-states, the more prone it is to getting in its own way.
The first is the Night Missions, which take place after dark. These feature the new Glow Pikmin, and only Glow Pikmin, in a tower defense minigame. The presence of a glowing, nectar-like substance attracts and enrages the local fauna, but that nectar also happens to be a vital ingredient in your mission, so you have to protect the hive-like nests where it's generated until morning comes. Only a handful of them are mission-critical, though you can go on many more if you'd like. These aren't terribly difficult, but that feels intentional. The pace of Pikmin 4 is so relaxed that it would seem incoherent to have high-stress tower defense segments. While I'm sure they ramp up in difficulty if you want to do them all, it's nice having an option to do something different that has the same deliberate cadence.
The same can't be said for Dandori, the other new game type. Often you'll find Leaflings--other explorers who have gone feral and have leaves covering their faces--and they'll challenge you to Dandori. The game explains that Dandori is a Japanese concept referring to orderly planning and efficiency, and in practice, these come in two varieties. The first is a Dandori Challenge to beat a high score within a time limit, while the other is a competitive Dandori Battle where you gather treasures against an AI opponent. This one is directly competitive, as you can steal one another's treasure and drop special items to disrupt their progress. Both flavors of Dandori felt at odds with the rest of the game. I didn't struggle too much in either type, but I did sometimes have to retry after just barely running out of time. Pikmin 4 is so centered around taking things at your own pace, it's strange having a game type that serves the exact opposite purpose.
The in-campaign Dandori Battles are obviously meant to train you for the game's multiplayer mode, which is competitive Dandori against another human player. In fact, one of the very last story-required Dandori Battles introduced a new game mechanic, so it seemed clear that this was meant to serve as training wheels. Dandori against another human player may give the game legs, but I generally avoided playing these battles whenever possible in the campaign, and I can't really imagine wanting to do it against another player. Competitive Pikmin is such an odd concept; even saying it aloud sounds wrong.
Pikmin 4 introduces a few other traditional game-like elements with more success. You can enhance Oatchi using the pup power granted by rescuing people, which lets you upgrade your canine companion with a stun power for its charge attack or the ability to withstand extreme cold. This gives you a welcome level of customization to use Oatchi as you like--in my case, I dumped everything into a few factors like speed and the charge attack and didn't see much use in the other upgrades. The other upgrade path comes from equipment, which you can purchase using the raw materials you gather. Those raw materials are also used sometimes to build simple bridges or ramps, though, so I made sure to keep some in reserve. A handful of equipment types are permanent upgrades, like the vital ability to call all Pikmin back to your base, while others are temporary power-ups. As with the Pikmin, I didn't want to waste my precious resources, so I used those sparingly (and sometimes, accidentally).
Captain Olimar is a major factor in the story, but he's not the star. Instead, your mission is to find and rescue him, along with the first Rescue Crew dispatched to rescue Olimar, which also crashed. The distress signal sent out attracted a gold rush of other explorers and curious travelers, giving you plenty of hapless munchkins to rescue. Some turned into Leaflings that you need to challenge to Dandori to rescue, while others are just passed out at the hands of some strange bug-monster.
That story, like most of Pikmin 4, is gentle and unobtrusive. It's all just very agreeable and sweet, and there's a certain gratification that comes from directing your little army of plant-people to gather treasures like fruits and Game Boy Advance cartridges. The more Pikmin 4 leans into fashioning itself after a more traditional game, with competition and fail-states, the more prone it is to getting in its own way. Sometimes, it's enough to simply have a relaxing activity.
Some of the most well-designed puzzle games are also some of the easiest to understand at a glance. Portal, for all its devious experiment rooms and conundrums within, is simple to break down and explain to new players, letting its depth reveal itself as you use its mechanics in increasingly complex ways. Baba is You is equally straightforward but can get wildly chaotic when you start truly experimenting with how far you can stretch its word-based combinations. Viewfinder neatly fits into their company. It's a short but engrossing puzzle game with a distinct and captivating central mechanic that is satisfyingly explored across a range of challenging puzzles, each of which left a grin on my face upon arriving at a solution.
Viewfinder's core concept lets you take static, 2D images and project them into 3D space in the world around you. For example, a Polaroid shot of an otherwise unassuming staircase can be used to construct a new path to a higher platform once projected into the world, carving out space for itself and destroying anything that might have been there beforehand. The more you play around with it, the more you start understanding different facets of how this power can be used to manipulate the serene and delightfully colorful environments around you. For example, while a picture of a plain wall might only show you what was captured in two dimensions, the effect it has once you apply it to the world is much more, sometimes throwing out whole rooms and important objects from behind it. By the same token, where you place your projections is equally important, too, as large structures that you conjure ahead of you can inadvertently shear the environment in such a way that makes reaching your objective more challenging.
Viewfinder starts slowly by only offering you predefined photos that you can find around stages, easing you into the mindset that will be required by later challenges. However, it's not long before it truly lets loose by giving you a camera of your own, letting you capture stills from any angle in a stage and use them to devise your own solutions. This moment feels empowering and liberating, akin to finally being able to fire both portal types in Portal after being forced to solve puzzles with only one. It also comes at just the right time, where the complexity presented by puzzles that give you the exact tools you need to solve them is beginning to wear thin. Without the safety net of being given the pieces you need for a solution and challenging you to find them yourself, Viewfinder entrusts you to create your own solutions that can be as straightforward or wholly unique to the way you deconstruct a problem.
The aim of each stage is to reach a teleporter at the end of it, with some obstacles thrown in to keep that from being simple. Sometimes the teleporter needs to be powered by multiple batteries in a level where there might only be one, challenging you to figure out not only how to get them to the right place but also how to conjure duplicates without running out of film. Other times, the teleporter is powered by a network of wires, which can easily be severed if you're reckless with where you project pictures. These networks can be powered by sound or pressure plates, other times holding charge in batteries to give you time to get to a teleporter before it shuts back down. Each of these pieces is presented simply at first but quickly combine together to keep you thinking about how each individual solution can make up a grander, more involved one, often requiring a new revelation about the nature of the core mechanic and how it can work in alternative ways.
The concept of capturing a moment is stretched in fascinating ways, pushing you to think not just about the physical attributes you're capturing in each picture but also what state in time they're in. A battery photographed at full charge will retain that when reused in the world, creating opportunities for you to reach what it might be powering without physically having to walk as far to reach it. Viewfinder uses this as a central theme in a string of puzzles, but then quickly builds upon it, incorporating what you've just learned in a more complex puzzle while introducing an entirely new theme for subsequent ones to follow. It keeps the sense of discovery strong and makes each victory feel like one triumph over an impossible problem after another, especially when considering how intricate puzzles become by the end. The way in which Viewfinder can consistently keep this going is revelatory but also is afforded by its relatively brief length at just around four hours for completion. There's just a handful of optional (and truly challenging) stages to tackle and collectibles to find, but Viewfinder can easily be completed in a single sitting, and might be best experienced in that way, too.
While each string of puzzles is consistently engrossing to solve, the story that wraps everything together is a little less so. Most of Viewfinder takes place in a simulation, seemingly happened upon by two young researchers looking for a device to help save their current climate from crisis. The simulation was created by some genius engineers as a way to continue working outside of the constraints of time, inviting some introspective ideas about the pursuit of perfection if given the space to do so.
Your journey through this simulation is guided by Cait, an artificial intelligence that takes the form of an adorable cat. Aside from the disembodied voice you hear occasionally from your handler in the real world, Cait is the only other character you'll interact with. This isn't an issue, though, given how supportive and encouraging he is as you progress swiftly through each puzzle. But Cait harbors a growing sadness as you approach the end, dissuading you from reaching it in the hopes that he won't be abandoned again. It makes your eventual farewell a poignant moment, emphasizing how strong an impression he made in such a short amount of time.
As you venture from one hub to the next, you start getting a better idea about the people who built this place and slowly start piecing together why their pursuit to save the planet might have been in vain, although you'll miss most of this context if you don't take time to read the numerous sticky notes and item descriptions around each level. Even with that, Viewfinder's story lacks the impact that its narrative is seeking, making its eventual conclusion land without any sense of emotion. Aside from Cait, there's no other characters that made enough of an impression to be memorable, which is disappointing given how interesting of a world they constructed for you to play around in.
Despite an unsatisfying narrative, the bulk of Viewfinder is spent solving a variety of unique puzzles, and it's here where it never falters. The numerous ways in which Viewfinder manages to stretch its core idea consistently kept me entranced, providing a deeply satisfying loop of deciphering a conundrum and constructing a solution that could be distinct to my playthrough. Given how Viewfinder quickly empowers you with the tools to create your own solutions while challenging you to push your understanding of its world, it's pleasantly surprising how frictionless the entire experience is, never once devolving into tedium or frustration. Viewfinder finds elegance in simplicity but doesn't trade this for straightforward solutions, making it one of the best puzzle games you can play today.
Taking place five years after the original game, Oxenfree II has you play as a new protagonist: Riley Poverly. Returning to her hometown of Camena--the part of the mainland closest to the first Oxenfree's Edwards Island--Riley is partnered with the town's resident handyman, Jacob Summers, and tasked to set up transmission radio towers around the coastal town. The seemingly simple job devolves into a much stranger and more dangerous situation, however, as electromagnetic waves take a toll on reality, opening portals to other timelines. As Riley and Jacob struggle to understand what's happening and fix things, they find their efforts repeatedly thwarted by a trio of teenagers who are a part of Parentage, a church-like cult in the area, and lingering supernatural specters.
Like its previous games, developer Night School Studio utilizes both a choice- and timing-driven dialogue system, taking note of not only what you say but when you say it. Conversations don't pause to give you a chance to figure out what to say next--like an actual conversation in real life, Riley will have to regularly respond to express interest. During conversations, small thought bubbles will appear above Riley's head as people talk to her, giving you a chance to choose how you speak your mind. Wait too long and these dialogue branches eventually fade away, but speak up too soon and you may interrupt someone just before they absent-mindedly say something that creates a more compelling path in the conversation. In this way, saying nothing at all is just as valid a choice as saying something.
The main crux of Oxenfree II is Riley's walkie-talkie, which allows her to stay in regular contact with several characters across Camena, like a park ranger trying to understand the supernatural stuff that's happening and a lonely old fisherman looking for a friend. It's through this walkie-talkie that a great deal of Oxenfree II's conversations occur, and being strategic in how and when you talk can drastically alter the relationships that Riley has with these characters and the ultimate conclusions to their stories.
Forging these relationships with what are essentially just voices is the strongest element of Oxenfree II. Compelling writing and a talented voice cast bring these characters to life, and navigating their fledgling friendships through the pressure cooker of a single night of terrifying supernatural activity gets you deeply invested in each one. Riley's regular check-ins and conversations about family with her supervisor Evelyn are especially good and feel increasingly poignant to the game's themes about priorities and finding the strength to move forward in life. (Someone, somewhere needs to give actors Liz Saydah, aka Riley, and Alaina Wis, aka Evelyn, all the awards for how well they bring their characters to life.)
There's also something especially unnerving about never seeing most of the people that tether Riley to her current reality, lending further support to the game's themes of isolation. Not providing a face for most of the characters is doubly disquieting when it comes to the main antagonists of the game, ghosts who communicate with Riley from another dimension by splicing together their sentences with phrases and words from different radio broadcasts. Occasionally, they'll gnaw at the festering wounds of Riley's trauma as well, pulling her into visions of the past and future so that she can relive the deterioration of her family life and witness how she pays that generational trauma forward to future generations. Rarely does Oxenfree II go for the jump scare, and the game is stronger for it, building up the unsettling presence of its villains by not giving them a tangible face or easily understood motivation until the very end of the game.
Oxenfree II does an incredible job building up the tenuous grasp that Riley has on reality and her desperation in needing her walkie-talkie both as the one major lifeline to her support network and the best way to keep tabs on the voices who want to kill her. So it's baffling that the game then undermines that with additional allies and antagonists who Riley does get to see and put a face to. Riley is regularly accompanied by Jacob, who graciously fills the otherwise dead air while walking back and forth across the map with conversation. However, these conversations are oftentimes boring or, worse, unfunny and cringy. I get the sense that Jacob is meant to be a moral indicator for you, with his behavior and characterization evolving in reflection of how he sees you treat others and him over the course of the game. But this leaves Jacob feeling more like a lost puppy dog than an actual person, his repeated pleas for Riley to validate his life choices growing increasingly irritating over time. By the two-hour mark, I wanted to toss him down a cliff.
Olivia, the leader of the trio of teens who serve as the secondary antagonist, isn't as bad as Jacob, though I suspect that's largely because she only pops up in brief moments in the story. The trio's tenuous grasp of the multidimensional ghosts haunting Camena also provides the terrifying yet thrilling opportunity for the game's villains to enact physical damage on the world, not just mental or emotional. Plus, it's easier to discern how your choices are influencing Olivia and her friends, with your actions in regard to all three having major ramifications in the game's two most climactic moments. Olivia's presence lends greater emotional weight to your decisions, rewarding however you want to play Riley with tangible effects on the direction of the story and its overall conclusion. That said, Olivia isn't all that interesting of an antagonistic force, especially in comparison to the dark masters she serves, coming off as snobbish, spiteful, and mean-spirited.
In spite of these shortcomings, Oxenfree II is still a good game, building on how the first Oxenfree explored someone coming to terms with their guilt in their teenage years to now tackle those same themes from an adult's perspective. Riley is struggling with how her own self-loathing and guilt have left her life feeling static, the voice of past traumas preventing her from moving forward during a period when she feels she needs to. It feels narratively apt that the only way she's able to take that next step forward and do what's best for her is to literally cut through the voices within radio static that's threatening the hometown where she grew up and most of her trauma started. It's a simple metaphor, but it's effective and instantly relatable, especially for anyone feeling a bit stuck in life in their early 30s.
The sound design for this game is absolutely killer. Games that aim for a spooky atmosphere live and die by their sound design, and Night School Studio expertly utilizes barely discernible undertones throughout to create the sensation that something supernatural is in the air all around you. I'm of the opinion that a radio is one of the creepiest devices you can put into a thriller or horror game given the strange, almost alien reverberating voices that cascade through the hissing static as you navigate between channels. Those sounds populate Oxenfree II from start to finish like a dying voice trying to claw its way back into our reality. It's just a shame Jacob keeps breaking the tension with his terrible jokes and unremarkable tangents.
Oxenfree II is a strong sequel to the original game. A particular secondary character and antagonist drag the experience down a bit but the overall storyline is a satisfying foray into an adult woman's tenuous grasp on reality and her ultimate decision to cut through the static and strive for something better with the help of the friendships forged whilst speaking over a simple walkie-talkie.
I have to hand it to the development staff of Rain Code: They are very skilled at completely upending your expectations from the get-go. I certainly expected to be shocked and surprised, given that these are the minds behind the beloved Danganronpa series--they know a thing or two about throwing players narrative curveballs out of nowhere--but even I wasn't expecting what happened after about 30 minutes of introduction. I wanted to put the Switch down and give a little "Well done!" clap. It's a bit of a shame, though, because after that, none of the other cases ever reach the same high, despite some great moments. That's Rain Code in a nutshell: It can't quite reach the greatness of what came before it.
Rain Code begins with a young man waking up in some sort of storage room. All he can remember is that his name is Yuma Kokohead and he's got to catch a train that's headed to Kanai Ward--a corporate city cut off to most of the outside world, shrouded in perpetual, neon-lit darkness and rain, run by the Amaterasu megacorp, and controlled by the militarized Peacekeeper force. It's not long after he boards the train that he finds out why he's going there: He's part of the World Detective Organization, which is sending several agents in to investigate Kanai Ward's ugly secrets. He also soon discovers why he has amnesia: It turns out he made a deal with a death god for special powers and offered up his memories in exchange.
That death god, Shinigami, mostly hangs around in the form of a tiny ghost that only Yuma can see. It reads his thoughts and makes sarcastic comments until there's a mystery to be solved, which is when Shinigami stops time and transforms into a buxom demon maiden to whisk him away to mind-palace Mystery Labyrinths where things get buck-wild. Here, he must battle logic monsters, evade dastardly false-solution traps, and unlock doors with Evidence Keys that Shinigami barfs up in a shower of rainbows. And also maybe crush thought barriers riding Shinigami as a giant kaiju. And play Pop-up Pirate with her in a barrel on the beach. Yeah, it's all just a little weird.
Much has been made of the fact that Rain Code's development team helmed the beloved Danganronpa adventure game series, which you'll see (and hear) clearly in the character designs, music, and delightfully outlandish character concepts. The similarities are more than skin-deep, however: Rain Code's gameplay structure is clearly modeled after those games. Each of the game's six lengthy chapters has a plot-heavy setup, a murder, an investigation, and then a collection of minigames to catch the culprit--only, instead of a mass trial run by a malevolent bear-thing, you're braving an extra-dimensional detective dungeon. Even the Logic Deathmatch battles you fight in the dungeons are essentially a remake of Danganronpa's contradiction-hunting Nonstop Debates, but with a sword instead of gun to cut down falsehoods.
Yuma, being both a detective trainee and an amnesiac, has some big hurdles to overcome. Fortunately, the other WDO members--a motley crew of quirky weirdos with love-or-hate personality traits--all have a unique supernatural ability of their own, ranging from sensing life energy or revisiting a crime scene from when it was first witnessed in the past, to separating soul from body or phasing through solid walls. Yuma soon finds he can share these special skills with their wielder, and they become crucial during the course of investigations to gather clues and evidence. For example, Yuma can use obnoxious would-be casanova Desuhiko's disguise ability to infiltrate an elite private school where a suspicious murder has occurred in the drama club. Getting to use these abilities is a neat twist, though the times you can actually play around with them are very limited.
As host to all of the dark happenings, Kanai Ward itself is a key element of the game: a moist, murky, and foreboding place lined with neon lights and winding passageways. A lot of thought has been put into the art design of the city and its assorted regions, and most chapters offer you a portion of time to explore and admire the various parts of the city freely and talk to NPCs. Unfortunately, that's about all you can do; there aren't any shops or activities to be found here. You can take on some side quests to build up your Detective Rank (and learn helpful Mystery Labyrinth skills via a skill tree), but these quests are universally bland, with bog-standard fetch-quest objectives and wholly unmemorable NPC dialogue, ultimately feeling like needless padding.
In contrast, the Mystery Labyrinths that Shinigami creates to close out each chapter are very well-designed and feature plenty of intriguing twists and turns, along with charming banter (and plenty of downright bizarre physical interactions) between Yuma, Shinigami, and other characters who get sucked in for the ride. The portrayal of a logical puzzle as a physical dungeon is an enjoyable conceit that allows the artists and puzzle designers to create some really memorable traps, solutions, and liminal spaces to travel through. While the Switch sometimes struggles with muddy-looking textures and slowdown, the overall art design is a high point, as are the variety of obstacles and glammed-up enemies Yuma must overcome. The variety of obstacles and puzzles is great, too. At one moment you'll be fighting a literal battle of words against a Mystery Phantom opponent who shouts attacks at you, and the next you'll be reconstructing crime scenes or playing a QTE-type event where you need to correctly answer a question quickly in order to escape danger, only to then be faced with Shinigami in a rotating barrel you throw swords at to make a phrase, followed by a finale in which a massive Shinigami must crush all mental barriers that stand between you and the truth… among other things. The mechanics in each of these sub-sections differ but are very easy to understand and get the hang of, making for constantly shifting gameplay that keeps you on your toes.
As cool and wild as many of the character designs are in Rain Code, there's simply not enough character interaction for you to feel a strong connection or animosity towards anyone. Both friends and foes alike tend to get a designated chapter to show off their abilities and personality quirks, only to be relegated to minor supporting roles afterwards. Instead, most of the in-game interactions are solely between Yuma and Shinigami, who do have a very entertaining rapport with one another. You can see little side stories with other major characters through finding collectibles, though this requires extra legwork and still doesn't remedy the issue.
This lack of character development and attachment is one of the main reasons why Rain Code doesn't hit the same sweet-spot that the Danganronpa games did. Danganronpa games were extremely character-driven, and that fed into the forever-tense, emotional atmosphere: At any moment, a character you really liked could wind up killed horribly, or--perhaps worse--turn out to be a cold-blooded murderer. That fear and inevitability of loss was pervasive and powerful, making every moment feel weighty.
Rain Code doesn't have the same tension and urgency. The victims of the murders are characters you barely know, the threat of a tyrannical mega-corp's unethical experiments is mostly indirect, and some of the big story revelations just don't hit as hard as they should. I also felt like the Mystery Labyrinths, as enjoyable as they were, tended to drag out their conclusions. I'd usually figured out the who and how by around the halfway point in each, meaning I only had to puzzle out how the game wanted me to put everything together. The result is a narrative-driven game with a story that lacks impact where it needs it most and leaves you saying, "Wait, that's all there is?" (An ending that wraps things up just a little too nicely given the messy revelations of the final chapter doesn't help, either.)
But even though it's not quite as good as Danganronpa's dizzying roller-coaster highs, Rain Code is a solid detective adventure that entertains and engages for the majority of its runtime. It's got an intriguing concept, enjoyable dialogue, an interesting and plenty of bold, outlandish strangeness to hold a player's interest. I, for one, certainly hope this isn't the last we see of Shinigami's sublime snark.
There haven't been many games that have adapted the Aliens name that have managed to capture the essence of what makes many of its early films so captivating. The survival-horror game Alien: Isolation comes closest, eschewing the typical direction of action for horror, making its single Xenomorph a terrifying entity that demands the fearful respect so many other adaptations fail to offer it. While there are many, many more Xenomorphs in Aliens: Dark Descent, this hybrid of action and real-time strategy mostly works because it conveys the same sense of fear you feel when engaging them, which makes it easier to gloss over the times its other systems don't quite work as well.
Aliens: Dark Descent predominantly takes place on the planet Lethe, after a familiar scene of a Xenomorph outbreak takes place on a Weyland-Yutani space station and forces the entire area into a deadly lockdown. As survivors scramble for a way to get off-planet while also investigating the root of the outbreak, you'll travel to numerous locations across the planet to uncover clues, scavenge for supplies, and shoot down anything that gets in your way. Aliens: Dark Descent has the inklings of a captivating tale that never delivers on any of its initial promises, boiling down an interesting premise in the opening hours to a standard story without much to say beyond its straightforward mystery.
The story is mostly delivered through dialogue between the game's two leads, a surviving administrator from the opening space station and a grizzled space marine with a strange link to the Xenomorphs. Their chemistry is lacking and their relationship swings wildly from one extreme to the next in very short spaces of time, making it difficult to feel engaged in their plight or personal motivations. Secondary characters rarely get any moments to shine, so it's easy to start tuning the entire thing out in lieu of Dark Descent's far more interesting pieces.
Aliens: Dark Descent is a mixture of genres to the point where it can be difficult to pin down exactly which one it conforms to most. Its top-down view and cover mechanics are reminiscent of games like XCOM, but its real-time action borrows a lot from standard action role-playing games like Diablo. During each mission, you assemble a squad of four space marines and control the unit as a single entity. You cannot move individual squad members independently, and soldiers will only break from formation if you instruct them to open a crate or retrieve a collectible, after which they will hurriedly scurry back.
This restriction of independent movement allows for Aliens: Dark Descent's atmospheric horror to work, because it keeps your attention focused on one point at all times. Despite having a large view of your surroundings, the restrictive radius around your marines that you can actually see retains a lot of the tension as you explore narrow hallways in derelict outposts or twisting caverns in an infested underground mine. Enemies can, and will, hunt you as you move around these areas, with the recognizable ping from your motion sensor giving you some indication of how close they might be. Just a couple of Xenomorphs are enough to completely tear your squad apart, giving these creatures a sense of power that ratchets up the tension every time you face them. Your space marines exhibit this fear literally in a stress meter that rises as you are hunted by the hive, eventually inhibiting them from performing their alien-slaying duties as effectively as possible.
Stress is just one small component of your squad that you will need to manage, but it serves as a good example of numerous small mechanics that all work together to accentuate the tension between skirmishes. Much like in the films, Xenomorphs spray harmful acid blood when injured, meaning your space marines have a chance to take damage if they kill one too close to themselves. This makes moving while engaging enemies paramount, afforded by the ability to shoot if you choose to move at a slower, walking pace as opposed to an all-out sprint, which doesn't let you return fire. Xenomorphs will surprise attack from vents, grabbing the weakest members of your team and dragging them to their demise if you don't stop them. Facehuggers will burst out of eggs and latch onto your squad's faces, rendering the soldier in question dead if you decided not to bring along the required equipment to pry them off. These small moments composed of small decisions are what make even mundane movements between objectives stimulating, forcing you to think about subversion and action over outright action in most scenarios.
Stealth is not just a viable tactic, but one that Aliens: Dark Descent encourages with a system that tracks when you're being hunted by the Xenomorph hive. Everything you do that might cause attention, like firing a gun or blowing up a barricade for a shortcut, alerts the hive to your presence, with regular drones being sent out to hunt for you. The longer you're in this hunted state, which is reset every time you alert an enemy, the overall aggressiveness of the hive increases. Eventually this causes larger groups of patrolling enemies, the introduction of special boss enemy types that are much harder to kill, or a brutal onslaught of foes that will routinely wipe your squad out if you aren't prepared. It's an effective way to encourage you to seek out alternative routes or employ stealth when you can but also exposes how valuable extractions can be.
Each mission lets you quit at any point and return to fight another day, entrusting you with making decisions that could see you return with a full squad or a battered one limping back with soldiers missing. It's a powerful yet simple mechanic that engrosses you further into the management and preservation of your squad in Dark Descent's brutal environments.
Aliens: Dark Descent makes a point of being challenging. It outright warns you of the fact before starting a campaign, and routinely prompts you to prepare before large skirmishes each time you trigger them. However, its encouragement to play in a certain way doesn't always end up providing the most engaging moment-to-moment experiences. While it's fun to devise ways around enemies without drawing their attention, it's equally frustrating when you're forced into the same types of skirmishes consistently because there's so little depth to dealing with recurring climatic encounters. They usually boil down to you being given time to set up some turrets and deciding which soldiers you want to lay down suppressive fire in specific directions, and then mostly passively watching encounters play out where you either come out relatively unscathed or have your entire squad wiped out. The key to addressing failure usually lies in one or two actions (such as using abilities like your deadly close-range shotgun blast or deploying some additional mines), but given how similarly these encounters play out, it quickly falls down the hole of routine rather than strategic stimulation.
Outside of missions, the strategic element is just as thin. Between deployments, you're in charge of a base-management system akin to XCOM. You can assign physicians to work on specific troops and reduce their injury times, spend resources you find on missions to unlock a (small) variety of weapons, send troops on training so that they can level up outside of traditional deployments, and a little more. The few options for you to meaningfully enhance your numerous soldiers coupled with their earned upgrades feeling imperceptible makes the decisions imposed by each department come across as meaningless. Beyond assigning physicians, I rarely found myself tabbing to the rest of the departments outside of checking in on a potential new weapon or upgrade, making this entire layer of gameplay more of an annoying necessity between missions rather than a vital one to ensure their success. The composition of squads you send on missions and individual troop progression also feels relatively flat, with little discernible difference from a new recruit to a fully upgraded one when they're out in the field. You assign passive perks and unlock weapon proficiencies as each soldier levels up, which should go some ways to giving each one some memorable personality. But when a single drone can tear apart a fresh recruit or seasoned veteran in about the same amount of time, it's difficult to grow close to ones you've been playing with for several hours.
It's disappointing that Aliens: Dark Descent gets so much right about its setting, only to falter in each of the more critical areas that are meant to hold your attention. Its detail-oriented focus in presenting a richly authentics and atmospheric setting will be welcomed by anyone familiar with the franchise. Smaller mechanics that put emphasis on the terror that Xenomorphs exude add a suitable layer of tension to both exploration and combat, making each more distinct than their initial make-up would suggest. But it's a squad that rarely feels like a personable unit of people that you desperately want to keep alive, fighting for a cause in a narrative that is so easy to tune out well before the halfway point. There's a lot of good in this attempt to make Aliens something fresh and interesting again, and that might be enough to encourage you to see it through. But there's also just enough to potentially derail you entirely.
In some ways, I also feel that way about its 2023 remake. Story of Seasons: A Wonderful Life is a very different type of farming simulator in that it's one that focuses more on relationships, family, and legacy than farm work. It's a concept I can get behind, and A Wonderful Life's emphasis on streamlining gameplay and eliminating tedium is a breath of fresh air. However, despite social-sim dynamics being at the forefront of A Wonderful Life, player interactions and the community itself feel shallow. Although the character creation process might be more involved than ever, few NPCs are memorable, dialogue is scarce, and the game's idyllic setting turns eerie quickly due to the town's vacant atmosphere. Yet if I factor out this less-than-wonderful content, not all that much is left, making A Wonderful Life feel dated and empty--especially when compared to other games in the now-highly saturated farming game genre.
Like most farming sims, A Wonderful Life begins with a letter--only this time it's sent from your character rather than to you. After growing tired of life in the city, your character pens a letter to your parents' former friend, Takakura, informing him of your intention to come to Forgotten Valley and take over your parents' old farm. Upon your arrival, Takakura offers your farmer a cow, a decent sum of money, and a tutorial that beautifully walks the fine line between overbearing and uninformative, before giving you total control over your character and farm.
This tutorial--and how easy these notes are to access at all times--comes in clutch due to how dramatically different A Wonderful Life is from other farming sims. Whereas games like Stardew Valley and the vast majority of Harvest Moon and Story of Seasons games give you a large, dilapidated field, your A Wonderful Life farm starts in a neat and tidy state with only two small plots of land--one with poor soil quality and one with average quality, a factor which frequently comes into play. The bulk of your farm is a fenced-off field your livestock can graze upon, which quickly informs you that animal husbandry should be your focus and is the biggest money-maker; this is a dramatically different approach to farming sims, which generally rely on crops to get your cash flowing. Ultimately, these qualities actually make A Wonderful Life a great farming sim for genre newcomers to get into--there's less to manage, less to do, and a lot less to worry about.
However, for those more familiar with the genre this is only the beginning of the long list of differences. For example, you cannot ship any items you forage or gather in A Wonderful Life--that bin is reserved solely for items you harvest. Instead, you must wait until the traveling salesman Van comes to town or set up your own stall in the center of town, in hopes that your wandering neighbors will see your booth and slowly venture over. Furthermore, a year in A Wonderful Life is only 40 days long, with each season representing 10 of those days and containing one holiday. This means time goes by quickly and tasks that you would generally do daily--such as watering your plants and milking your cow--can and be done twice a day in this game. This also gives the game the room it needs to span several years, giving players the wonderful opportunity to watch their community change and their future child grow.
And while there are a handful of things you can upgrade on your farm and in your inventory, there's zero resource collecting and attaining these upgrades doesn't feel like much of a focus. In fact, rather than having any sort of farming or financial goals, the game emphasizes that you must get married in your first year of living in Forgotten Valley--or else the game will end.
This is where you start to experience some friction. While a streamlined farm and shortened calendar sounds great in , its execution in A Wonderful Life leaves a lot to be desired. Outside of tending to your farm and picking random herbs and flowers, there are essentially five things you can do: Visit the city, visit the Harvest Sprites to grab a recipe, socialize with your neighbors, mine, and fish. That sounds like a decent amount, right? Here's the problem: Each one of these activities is incredibly shallow and dull. To visit the city, you go to the outskirts of town, indicate that you are willing to spend six hours visiting the city, and then the screen goes black and you return six hours later. I am still not sure if it actually does anything.
Visiting the Harvest Sprites entails eating a mushroom, entering their home, and then talking to one of them to get a recipe. If you try talking to the other two, they'll just repeat that they don't have a recipe for you at this time. Mining consists of entering a tiny dig site--probably made up of 15 squares--being handed a shovel, and repeatedly digging at the same squares in an attempt to find fossils. And fishing sees you cast your line, wait for your bobber to sink, and then hold down a button. That is it.
However, socialization might be the most frustrating part. Seeing as I am told emphatically and frequently that I need to marry someone in order to live in Forgotten Valley, which of course feels strange in itself, getting to know someone is obviously a big priority. But there are a few problems with this: The folks you can marry are largely stationary and uninteresting, heart events are brief and not particularly gripping, and gifts and dialogue feel impersonal. While I am delighted developer Marvelous added same-sex marriage to the game, it doesn't make up for the fact that the candidates aren't the most lively group of people. I gravitated towards Matthew and Molly in my playthrough, as they exuded the most personality, but everyone else felt more or less one-note. While I ultimately married Matthew, the romance didn't feel engaging or earned. Though I enjoyed Matthew's Darcy-esque personality, it didn't feel as if we got to know one another, bonded, and fell in love. And maybe I'm just sappy, but that's a feeling I'm pretty fond of in any games with a romance element and would have preferred to experience instead of the forced situation we're offered.
Even in regards to friendship, the town is just… vacant. It's a word I keep coming back to, but one that aptly describes Forgotten Valley, a place where things like a general store, library, school, museum--any sort of lively and purposeful building, really--don't exist. Dialogue is often recycled, the townsfolk seldom interact with each other, and the town is more filled with strange scientists than people who feel like part of a tight-knit community. While there is this core of sentimentality here, you have to look extremely hard to see it--and that ultimately makes for a really isolating experience. Oh, you can also complete item requests for your neighbors, but it happens so infrequently, it's something I'm only just now remembering exists. To be quite honest, there were multiple days I went to bed before the sun had even set--there was nothing to do, no one to see, and standing by a river hitting a button to reel in a fish every 20 seconds just didn't sound super appealing.
Some things break up the monotony--holidays, events with your child, and watching them grow up (which is probably the coolest feature and makes the quick calendar worth it) are nice. The game's graphics and music are lovely enough, gameplay is significantly smoother than it was in the original, and its streamlined approach to farming and quality-of-life updates, such as adding NPC icons to your map so you don't have to look very hard to find people, are good features. Unfortunately, the entire package is just not enough.
Back in 2003, A Wonderful Life offered a refreshing and sentimental take on the farming sim genre. However, even then, it felt a bit empty when compared to what many other simulation games were doing. While Marvelous added greater inclusivity, clarity, and additional events and dialogue, it doesn't keep this 2023 remake from feeling empty and stuck in the past.
There are few games that serve as better examples of the industry's changing landscape than Crash Team Rumble (CTR). Once a single-player mascot platformer at the height of the genre's popularity, CTR takes the heroes and villains of Naughty Dog's, and later Activision's, series and reimagines it as a 4v4 multiplayer game with live-service elements. To some, that might sound like a myopic deathblow to a once-proud series. On the contrary, Crash Team Rumble is a fun and surprisingly tactical PvP game, albeit sometimes held back by oft-seen growing pains of games-as-a-service.
In Crash Team Rumble, two teams of four square off in platforming arenas that, at first glance, each look a bit like wide levels from a typical Crash game. Enjoyably, the controls and feel of the game perfectly capture those of traditional Crash games, too, making it an instantly recognizable experience in one's hands.
Though the game has just one mode at launch, it's designed very well. The goal is to score 2,000 wumpa fruit before the rival team does. To do this, players will spin over, slam onto, and slide into crates and loose wumpas all around the arena to collect them. Moving them to a goal area will, after a moment, score them for the team permanently. But the exciting chaos of CTR exists in this in-between space, and often even on the goals themselves.
Each team can be composed of whichever characters they see fit, which reliably results in rounds playing out differently each time. Eight characters split across three classes are available at launch: scorer, booster, and blocker. Scorers are usually faster and can carry more wumpas, thus scoring more at a time. Blockers are very enjoyable defenders, with denial-of-area or higher damage-inflicting moves meant to constantly disrupt enemy scorers like a fly forever buzzing around their ears. Boosters are sort of the in-betweeners, meant to focus on activating multipliers and unlocking map-specific abilities, like Aku Aku masks that give the whole team a health and movement buff similar to what past Crash games had.
Thresholds for unlocking these game-changing abilities are high, but work well as a result. It takes a concerted team effort to obtain them, which means a team will always have to balance chasing those powerful unlocks with scoring or playing defense. All eight players in the arena will have multiple things to focus on at all times, creating a high skill ceiling for those who use their time and space wisely.
Each character can be further enhanced with unique skill unlocks that aren't limited to certain classes. You can further enhance Crash's scoring abilities with the Wumpa Stash, giving yourself 100 or more additional wumpas over time, or you could bolster his defensive abilities by dropping a Gasmoxian Guard on the enemy's goal, thereby routinely zapping them and interrupting their scoring attempts, with the added bonus being that taking damage results in dropped wumpas. Characters having both innate and customizable abilities like these allow for further variance from round to round, as even a group of eight identical skins may across two rounds may belie a change in strategy that comes from a change in assigned cooldown skills.
In my time with the game, it was easy to take the reins of a new character or ability and quickly figure them out. I definitely have favorites today in both respects, but each character's and skill's use-case is apparent, and it's really satisfying to get to grips with each of them.
A team could roll out with four people playing as Crash, a scorer, but they'd be hard-pressed to prevent the enemy team from scoring, too. Alternatively, a team could bulk up on defenders like N. Tropy and Dingodile, but they'd be at risk of scoring too slowly. The game allows players to create their own team comps, which definitely can result in some lopsided matches. However, in my experience, some seemingly deficient team comps still led to victory when the team played cohesively. Voice comms feel more necessary in Crash than in many other PvP games, and as a result of that, I took to mostly playing with my squad of four, enjoying it less when jumping in with random players.
All eight players in the arena will have multiple things to focus on at all times, creating a high skill ceiling for those who use their time and space wisely.
Crash Team Rumble offers a surprising level of depth despite having just the one game mode right now. It very much feels like a quasi-sports game, akin to Rocket League or Fall Guys, just as much as it still retains the classic feel of a Crash game. I find this to be its greatest attribute--creating something new that still feels immediately familiar and easy to understand.
While strategies change from round to round, the game is consistently frenzied. Each player has goals and intentions, but they can change on a dime. I would often laugh when blockers got tunnel vision for me, thereby chasing me down fruitlessly (no pun intended) as my mobility options were greater than theirs, and this chase sequence allowed my allies to take advantage in other ways, like activating multipliers or scoring their own wumpas.
In other rounds, my brother and I would align as dual N. Brio blockers, each with Gosmoxian Guards equipped. These area-of-effect behemoths, paired with Brio's innate skill to morph into a hulking brute and clear out a goal like a nightclub bouncer, resulted in a laugh-out-loud defensive strategy for us that won us many consecutive matches until we finally came upon a team that effectively countered us. It feels like there are a few reliable meta strategies in the game's early days, but nothing is foolproof that I've seen, and that is really exciting as someone living in a post-Knockout City world, looking for the next fun arcade "sports" game.
Because team strategies can change so much in the middle of each 5-10-minute round, I witnessed some major scoring deficits be erased. A team down by over a thousand wumpas, for example, can still make a comeback if they decide to clamp down on defense, throwing all manner of blocking attacks and abilities at the enemy's goal while perhaps a single scorer accumulates wumpa slowly but surely. CTR would be dead on arrival if an early lead meant the game were already over, but that's not the case at all, provided a team knows what it's doing.
All the while, an esports caster-like announcer calls a round, adding a bit of extra excitement. He doesn't say much, but when he chimes in to announce how a round is coming down to the wire or an enemy team has just called in a map's major unlock, like a UFO that chases down players relentlessly, it definitely adds to the drama. The potential for late-stage heroics and comebacks, however, does make it annoying that players can't swap characters mid-match. Whoever a player starts a round with is who they'll finish the game with, which seems like an oversight.
In general, the game gets its competitive elements right, while a lot of its more troubled aspects exist in the menus and the metagame. The seasonal battle pass, for example, progresses much too slowly, and many of the earned cosmetics clip through each other. Because Crash characters come in such drastically different sizes, many of the unlockable headgear options sort of float above many characters' heads. Backpacks routinely clash with character models, too, while some cosmetic categories, like character shadows, just aren't interesting enough to be sought after. On the bright side, each character has their own unlock path to level 15, with tons of challenges to complete and free cosmetics to unlock. These cosmetics aren't markedly better than what's in the battle pass, but they at least provide some added depth to the metagame while the battle pass, which in the future will be available for purchase, is too slow to enjoy.
Details that might seem insignificant end up having an outsized effect on the game, like not seeing your partied-up teammates in the lobby, no one but the host knowing when matchmaking has been initiated, and odd error messages that pop up after some matches suggesting progress hasn't been saved even though it has been. There are also no daily challenges in the game currently, and the weekly challenges can't be viewed as a list. Instead, you see a new one once you've completed that which precedes it. I've reviewed other games in which a team was trying live-service elements for the first time, and these issues in CTR are reminiscent of those, where unlocking metagame rewards feels off at first because the team is still figuring them out. These elements can be tweaked, and I hope they will be.
Despite all these typically telltale signs, the game is also curiously not free-to-play. While I don't review games based on their price, I will note that the $40 barrier to entry seems to have shrunken the community out of the gate. In 15 gameplay hours for this review, I faced many of the same players and teams repeatedly, suggesting the community is quite small so far, which has affected my enjoyment, as facing the same teams can become a drag and hampers the otherwise reliable element of unpredictability of any given match. I worry CTR won't receive the attention it deserves because player expectations regarding the price of a multiplayer-only game and this game's actual price are at significant odds.
Crash Team Rumble demonstrates developer Toys For Bob's continued understanding of the Crash series by looking, sounding, and feeling like a Crash game even as the finer details are so new and unfamiliar for the team. The sports-like aspect of each match is delivered very well, offering more depth than initially meets the eye. A slew of strategies can result in victory, and cohesive teamplay is the fast track to success, making every victory feel earned and so much more rewarding. The game's matchmaking and metagame aspects leave a lot to be desired, but the hope is these can be fixed in time, so long as the buy-in doesn't scare away any potential for a thriving community.
Fight Forever features 47 wrestlers--a far cry from the 218 wrestlers in WWE 2K23, for comparison--at the start, with more able to be unlocked via the in-game shop with currency earned through playing the game. AEW mainstays like MJF, Kenny Omega, Jon Moxley, Dr. Britt Baker D.M.D., "Hangman" Adam Page, and The Young Bucks are here, as well as a few surprising entries. Some of them are heartwarming tributes to wrestlers who have passed away--like Mr. Brodie Lee and Owen Hart--while others are names who have departed to the competition like Cody Rhodes. There are plenty of names missing--the current AEW Women's Champion Toni Storm, the previous women's champion Jamie Hayter, and two-thirds of the Trios Champion House Of Black, for example--but it does represent most of the top talent currently in the promotion.
What's cool about Fight Forever's approach to the roster is that everyone is on an even playing field. There are no ratings in Fight Forever; I can pick any matchup I want and have the same chance of winning no matter who I'm controlling. And I do mean "any matchup I want," as intergender matches--which aren't available in WWE's current game series--are completely fine here. The game treats its roster less like a wrestling simulation, with clear divisions and ratings that separate the big stars from the midcard talent, and more like a fighting game where anyone can fight anyone, no questions asked. Being able to book whoever I want in a match, regardless of gender, size, or any other factors, is a really cool approach and I love that Fight Forever opted for it.
The game's mechanics are simple and approachable--adopting a scheme that channels WWF No Mercy from the Nintendo 64 days--which gives even more weight to the "everyone is even" roster approach. Moving around the ring is easy, attacking with strikes, grapples, and special moves feels comfortable in my hands. There will be an adjustment period for those accustomed to newer wrestling games, though, as some actions aren't as responsive as others. Running easily requires the most practice, as it's slow to start up and then requires the wrestler to run in a single direction. The game does a good job of teaching the basics, however, both through tips that pop up during a match and through the training mode. The tip screens are accompanied by voiceovers from notable AEW personalities, though some of the voices sound like they're reading from a script rather than trying to train a wrestler.
I particularly like how executing a finishing move is the same input as taunting, since taunting with a signature move available is how I access the finishing move to begin with. I don't have to worry about multiple button presses to pull off my favorite moves, it's one simple motion. Therefore, a quick flick of the right stick to taunt, followed by another quick flick of the same stick when my opponent is in range, and I'm hitting my most powerful move. I love how easy that feels.
I can also add to the roster myself through the game's wrestler creation suite, which on the surface seems limited but ends up being surprisingly robust. The physical customization options are fine but noticeably limited, with the amount of attires, hair options, and other elements available being mostly generic apparel or wrestler-focused offerings. Creating a moveset is much more in-depth, as it offers plenty of moves for a variety of different situations and lets me create the perfect moveset for me.
Getting through the list, however, is a challenge, as there's no organization in how the moves are listed. Alphabetizing each list would have gone a long way in making customization even more streamlined than it already is. That said, though it may seem limited compared to other games' offerings, it never feels too overwhelming, and what might take me an hour elsewhere I was able to make work in about 20 minutes here even with the menu issues.
Fans of pro wrestling know that one of the most important aspects of an event is the wrestler entrances, and I found myself disappointed with what Fight Forever offered in that regard. Instead of full walks to the ring with all of the pomp and circumstance of a Wednesday night on AEW Dynamite, each wrestler gets about 10 seconds of their entrance shown before the game moves on, much like an updated version of WWF No Mercy on the Nintendo 64.
While other wrestling games let you skip entrances to get to the action faster, it feels like that choice is taken away from those of us who want to watch them in full. There is an attempt to mitigate this, as I'm allowed to add my own pyrotechnics and lighting effects by pressing buttons, but while that's fun, I can barely see anything I'm adding to each entrance, so I don't understand why they were added in the first place. What's more, customizing my own entrance for a created character only twists that knife further; I want to see my creation in all their glory, but it's just not available.
The variety of matches is unfortunately just as lacking as the roster, as there are some popular match types missing. Standard match types such as one-on-one singles, two-on-two tag, and three- and four-way matches are all here, along with some specialty matches including ladder matches, "lights out" matches (basically "anything goes'' matches with weapons), and two AEW trademarks: The Casino Battle Royale and the Exploding Barbed Wire Deathmatch. All of these can also be played online in ranked and casual matches, which is a major plus.
One notable omission is three-on-three trios matches, especially considering AEW has a Trios Championship title, but as the game only supports a maximum of four wrestlers in the ring at one time, trios by its nature had to be left out. However, there's also one extra addition: minigames, a selection of small, Mario Party-style games which are unlike anything I've ever seen in a wrestling video game before. Trivia contests, coin collecting while wrestling, and more are available, and they're all silly fun which serve as a nice break between matches.
The Casino Battle Royale here in Fight Forever is an interesting spin on the real-world version, one which takes into account the technical limitations of the game only supporting four wrestlers in the ring at one time. In the real version, wrestlers are assigned "suits" and they all come out when that suit is called--club, spade, heart, and diamond. Here, you are still assigned a suit, but now one wrestler of each suit comes out at a time, and should they be eliminated, the next wrestler in that group comes out. This makes the match feel like a Team Battle mode in a fighting game rather than a battle royale, which some might argue goes against the spirit of the match, but as a technical workaround it's a novel approach that works for me.
The Exploding Barbed Wire Deathmatch, meanwhile, is presented as advertised: Barbed wire lines the ring ropes, and if I can force my opponent into them, fireworks explode and the poor wrestler on the receiving end takes massive damage. There's also a running timer where, after two minutes elapse, a massive explosion rocks both wrestlers in the match and acts as a "reset" of sorts. Playing this match is a ton of fun, with the explosions and blood marking the canvas giving it an extra edge from other match types--and thankfully blood can be turned off for the more squeamish players. The Exploding Barbed Wire Deathmatch in game is, ironically, much better than the one AEW actually put on in 2021.
The last main offering is Road To Elite, which is a story mode played with either a created character or an existing member of the roster. The mode is broken up into four sections, with each section containing four weeks of action set in a different real-world city. The first three weeks end with an episode of Dynamite, while the fourth week ends with one of AEW's pay-per-view events.
Each week, I can choose between multiple activities--working out, dining, or "going out"--with each one giving me a buff to my statistics. I'm allowed four of these activities before going to that week's match, and a small cutscene plays based on whichever I choose. These cutscenes range from routine weightlifting to goofy conversations with other wrestlers which result in pictures being taken in front of a famous landmark in whichever city I'm in.
These cutscenes are the best part of the mode, as I never knew what to expect whenever I'd pick one of the activities. In one moment I could be signing autographs and telling fans about the hard life of a wrestler, in another I'm posing in front of the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia with Jon Moxley, and in another I'm eating a Juicy Lucy--a burger with the cheese baked in--from a restaurant called Grub Informer in Minneapolis. The dialogue in the scenes is just as goofy, as it borders between laugh-out-loud funny and cringeworthy, but I'm happy to say I laughed more than I cringed. There's barely any interaction in these scenes outside of moving the dialogue along, but they're still a lot of fun to watch.
Better still, Road To Elite offers four different stories for each of the four-week sections, which means that in my second run through the mode, I saw completely different stories with completely different cutscenes and photo ops. There are 256 photo opportunities in all, in fact, which gives the mode plenty of replayability.
However, the storylines don't always match up properly, which creates some strange situations. For example, in a run with Malakai Black, I ended up winning the AEW Championship at All Out--the first pay-per-view on the docket. Amazingly, I was never pictured with the title belt again, as if that win never happened. I found that odd, as I had assumed the storylines after winning the title would be defending it, but that opportunity never came. The stories that did play out were still fun, but what happened to my championship?
AEW Fight Forever, much like the company it represents, is a cocky young upstart trying to take the crown from a titan. Also much like its source material, its first outing is a decent foundation for what its future could provide. The roster is a good primer on the current AEW lineup, there are enough match types to keep things fresh for a while, and Road To Elite is an irreverent look at the life of a wrestler that made me smile. There are some bumps in this road--particularly the lack of trios matches and the disappointing entrances--but those are all things which can be fixed in future installments. If AEW truly plans to Fight Forever in the video game world, then they've thrown an effective first punch.
Upon first impression, Final Fantasy XVI struck me with its darker and more violent tone than anything in the series' past. It's not just in the graphic depictions of bloody battles or godlike beings crushing each other to a pulp, but also in the explicit narrative threads about persecution and enslavement. It delves into the death and destruction that follows in the wake of all the political drama and supernatural standoffs. The brutality inflicted upon its victims is laid bare at nearly every turn, sometimes to the point of embellishment, to strike the nerves it wants to hit. But there's a thematic coherence to it all that melds what happens to the people at the ground level with the fantastical elements that steer their destinies. And within that harsh exterior, glossed with magic and aether, is a gripping story about characters clinging to their humanity, the bonds that give them strength, and the lengths they'll go to make the world a better place--all told in a way that only Final Fantasy can.
Final Fantasy has always been about reinvention and FFXVI perhaps marks the series' most drastic shift yet. The combat system veers much closer to a Devil May Cry than Final Fantasy XV or VII Remake, and is a shining example of what an action-RPG can be. Eikon battles initially seem to be just explosive set-pieces but grow into meaningful moments that are as narratively driven as they are utterly impressive spectacles. Through the awe-inspiring battles and emotional cutscenes, I found myself repeatedly asking in disbelief, "Did this game just do this?" as the soundtrack's beautiful melodies were seared into my memory. However, those peaks are also met with dated design conventions that stick out like sore thumbs, making for some noticeable lulls in the 50-plus hours I spent with the game. Still, I’ll always remember FFXVI for its powerful and stunning moments, for those are the reasons it stands among the storied franchise's best.
FFXVI mostly navigates these themes with a deft hand. Its writing often demonstrates an understanding of the complex dynamics that come with the territory, and it shines by empowering characters, letting them and their experiences be the focal points in sharp cutscenes and dialogue. As heinous as the darkest moments may be, they're also crucial to each character's understanding of the hostile world they exist in. It's encouraging to see the game plainly say what needs to be said, though at times that deft hand turns heavy, laying it on a little too thick or overlooking a bit of nuance that could've gone a long way in properly unpacking a theme or perspective. On rare occasions, I found a few minor story events that undermined the rather clear messages the game tries to send. But as a core motivation for the cast, and me as the player, to take action remains convincing throughout, and this results in some great narrative payoffs.
Clive and his brother Joshua are caught up in all this because they belong to a royal family that inherits the power of Phoenix, one of the Eikons that shake up the power balance within Valisthea. Tragedy strikes their family early on, setting the story in motion and establishing just how important Dominants--the select few who can tap and transform into Eikons--are as weapons of mass destruction. It seems like a blessing, but it's very much a curse, and the earth-shaking power they wield comes with clear consequences. This blending of political drama, social injustice, and the fantastical tropes of Final Fantasy gives the story room to have the mythical bombast expected of the series but also make it meaningful. The Eikons are a great reimagining of Final Fantasy's summons, and they're smartly contextualized within the story--so for as bonkers and over-the-top as Eikons can be, FFXVI's story always finds itself landing on solid ground.
Embedded in the themes of rebellion and the displays of godlike power are strong personal stories of revenge and redemption. The burden of sins, things they've done that they're not wholly responsible for, weigh heavy on the main cast's shoulders. I've grown quite tired of the old trope that seeking revenge is an empty endeavor that makes you as bad as your oppressors, so it's invigorating to have a story put its foot down and give characters the satisfaction of killing their masters to set themselves free, presented without caveat. Nevertheless, atonement is yet another important lens through which you see characters develop and go through the process of re-distinguishing what's right and wrong. Sometimes this means forgoing their privileges, making immeasurable sacrifices, or defying their supposed fate.
For all its dark turns, FFXVI is very much a story about love and the various forms it can take. It's a beautiful, honest tale of brotherhood; there's a familial love that I sometimes find hard to relate to, but in this regard, FFXVI cuts sharper than any story I've experienced in recent memory. There are also a few romantic plot lines that flow naturally into what motivates particular characters, and deep friendships that form through shared experiences. And good boy Torgal is the loyal dog who fights with Clive every step of the way. It wouldn't be a Final Fantasy without the power of human bonds manifesting as the strength to carry on and giving its characters a world worth fighting for.
These more granular themes work so well because whether it's Clive, Joshua, Cid, Jill or any of the other key characters, their personalities are driven by inspired voice performances. Clive is often the gruff guy who doesn't have much to be happy about, but this makes the moments he breaks out of his shell all the more impactful. When he screams and cries in desperation, it's the sound of someone truly in pain and you feel it in your bones, and when he cracks a smile or lets loose, it's a moment to rejoice. It certainly makes him one of the realest protagonists in the Final Fantasy pantheon. Cid shakes the room with the sheer bass in his voice, and his smooth charisma and sharp wits steal every scene. He's the kind of person that can make even the most aimless people believe in a cause, and the most stone-hearted people bare their souls. A believable human quality draws you toward Jill, so when she pours her heart out or has blood in her eyes, you know she means it. And when each of them rises to the occasion in their most critical moments, you can damn well hear it in their delivery.
FFXVI goes for some big swings, and hits when it matters most. It's a tightly woven and focused story told without sacrificing the magic that makes Final Fantasy special. It takes a while to see it come together, and stumbles into a few disappointing tropes along the way. But at its peak, whether it be the sheer thrill of the action or the raw emotional honesty--and sometimes the harmony between the two--FFXVI goes so hard that I could feel it in my heart.
A significant part of what had me so invested in FFXVI is the stylish-action combat since it's so tightly tied to the game's identity. While you only control Clive throughout the game, his roster of Eikon abilities build up alongside story events, and the framing of his greatest battles works so well because he controls like a nimble, masterful swordsman with a slew of badass powers he can whip out and string together at any moment.
FFXVI loosely retains the design principles of an RPG, with skill trees, a leveling system, upgradable gear, and stats that create a sense of progression. But when you're in combat, your handling of Clive's technical capabilities and Eikon powers are what'll win the battle. You can equip three Eikons and swap between them on the fly in battle--each has two powers on cooldown and a unique utility move that you can execute at any time. Customizing and mapping out your Eikon abilities is key; to be approached as if you're creating loadouts or team compositions in other games. And because these abilities all have properties such as launching, midair execution, charge-ups, or area-of-effect damage, you can get creative with some sweet combos.
For example, I often used a bread-and-butter rotation starting with Phoenix's Rising Flames then going into Garuda's Wicked Wheel, launching myself midair before smashing down with Titan's Upheaval and finishing off with a full-powered Windup before mixing in the standard sword-slashing combo. If you just want cool-looking abilities that do tons of damage, you can get away with that, too. But the more you inspect the nuances of how certain abilities can be strung together, the more you'll see the ways you can execute deliberate attack rotations.
Brilliantly designed boss battles bring out the best in the stylish-action combat. Typically, you work to bring down their stagger meter then hit them with all you've got, carefully planning your attack sequence to make the most of the damage multiplier that goes into effect in a staggered state, similar to Final Fantasy VII Remake. But these bosses also challenge your skills in dodging, positioning, reading incoming attacks, and reacting with precision and swiftness. As someone who has a couple thousand hours in Final Fantasy XIV and regularly does savage raids, I can clearly see how the MMORPG's boss mechanics have influenced FFXVI. It's one of the development team's many strengths and I'm thrilled to see those design philosophies cross over to enrich the experience.
Because the accumulation of Eikon abilities is beholden to story progress, it takes time for the deeper gameplay elements to open up. While it strengthens the narrative coherence with the gameplay, it creates somewhat odd pacing in the first half of the game, and it's a bit disappointing because later Eikon abilities offer some fascinating possibilities and add layers of depth.
FFXVI isn't a particularly difficult game, but sometimes you'll run into DPS checks or encounter enemy attacks that do significant damage in one hit, which you can sometimes brute force your way through by popping potions. There is challenge in the purely gameplay-focused Arcade Mode--which ranks you like a Devil May Cry game--and the New Game+ Ultimania difficulty, which cranks the challenge to near-impossible heights, for those who want it. Other than sheer enjoyment of besting the game's toughest battles, engaging with these modes is mostly for leaderboard bragging rights. On the flipside, there are accessories that act as gameplay assists that can help those who may struggle with various aspects of the combat system--options such as auto-combos or more lenient dodge timing don't completely automate the experience, though there are accessories that can do that for you. However you choose to play, it's certainly satisfying to best the most imposing monsters while receiving hardly a scratch with every Eikon ability exhausted.
FFXVI isn't a complex game either, as its structure is pretty straightforward. You have a home base called The Hideaway and sparsely populated hub areas for each region that gradually open up as you make progress and sidequests populate these areas to flesh out the world. Once you get access to the Hunt Board, you'll find optional boss fights within these regions that reward you with a satisfying challenge, a bunch of XP, and materials for better gear. But the main quest is primarily driven by distinct combat-focused scenarios akin to a linear dungeon where mobs of enemies are interspersed with a handful of boss fights. Not only do these contain some of the best story moments and cinematics, it's where gameplay finds its groove, hitting an enjoyable cadence of spectacular fights.
Sidequests are, unfortunately, one of FFXVI's weaker parts. Having done all of them, I feel they're still worth doing for the way they humanize the people of Valisthea. I would go as far to say that a handful of them are critical for getting the full picture of key characters and their relationships. But outside of those few important ones that reward you with heartfelt scenes, they're mostly comprised of stilted dialogue sequences with objectives that rarely make the most of the game's strengths. It's where the writing occasionally falls flat, too, so the contrast in quality is stark when the main quest has best-in-class storytelling.
Where FFXVI flexes the hardest, though, is in the Eikon-versus-Eikon battles: pivotal moments where fully transformed Dominants put everything on the line and fight with everything they got. There aren't many of these boss fights, but the ones from around the halfway point up until the end make for some of the wildest, most impressive spectacles seen in video games. New powers specific to these battles open up as the game goes on, too, so it's not all quick time events or glorified button mashing. And even when they do rely on QTEs, you get a ridiculous display of strength that would make Asura's Wrath proud. I'm not easily wooed by fancy cinematics or super-high visual fidelity, but FFXVI is one case where that technical prowess accentuates the grand scale of these genuinely surprising, astonishing moments.
Whether it's in heated battles, emotional cutscenes, or brief treks across Valisthea, it wouldn't be a Final Fantasy game without an evocative soundtrack to match. Composer Masayoshi Soken and his team are a significant part of what makes FFXIV a special MMORPG experience, and their work on FFXVI further proves that the series' music is in good hands. Reverberating piano pieces instill a tranquil and wistful vibe set against the vast landscapes, much like overworld themes heard in FFXIV. The commanding orchestras and choirs bring an undeniable weight to crucial battles. But, as Soken often does, he breaks from thematic conventions to add electronic tunes and heavy guitars that somehow fit right in. Even the normal boss theme had me sitting up straight, shoulders squared, humming along as I whooped on my foes with confidence. And the identifiable melodies that become powerful leitmotifs capture feelings that are tough to put into words: beautiful expressions of the complex emotions that the characters, and me as the player, feel in particular moments. Music is integral to the storytelling in Final Fantasy and FFXVI is a masterful execution of this pillar of the series' tradition.
When I hear the new renditions of the Crystal Prelude and the original Final Fantasy theme, I look back at the franchise's rich history and realize just how much of an impact it's made on me and countless others. There are eras of my life that have been defined by Final Fantasy games and my connection to them. Having seen FFXVI all the way through, I'm happy to include it alongside some of my all-time favorites in the series. It's heartening to see that this bold approach to both story and gameplay is now part of that legacy, expanding the definition of what a mainline entry could be. It may fall short in some respects, but it should be celebrated for its most stunning moments and the characters who embody them. FFXVI succeeds and earns its place within the Final Fantasy pantheon as one of the great entries, and does so on its own terms.
Bloober Team's original Layers of Fear (2016) became an almost overnight gaming sensation when its mind-bending Steam Early Access version gave players some truly imaginative sights. The sequel continued the original's themes of tortured artists, but swapped a painter for an actor, and offered arguably even more inventive visuals. Both games were, in my opinion, fine, but nothing more. Now, reborn on Unreal Engine 5 with new content interspersed with what was there before, Layers of Fear (2023) looks to be the definitive way to experience the horror series. However, its haunts remain largely empty. The new engine makes the game a visual benchmark, but it still feels more like a haunted house at a theme park, offering the illusion of danger but never something sincerely threatening.
Perhaps the first hurdle in critiquing the series' reinvention is explaining exactly what this package offers. Layers of Fear and its sequel both return roughly 80% the same as you may have experienced them before. Some scenes have been redesigned or added--or even removed, if my memory serves me correctly. Both games receive new but ultimately shallow mechanics allowing for a few combat sections in which you'll need to blast stalking ghosts with light to stall them while you escape their maze-like settings. The first game's brief Inheritance DLC is also included, and a brand-new DLC meant to wrap the series up more neatly than before, The Final Note, makes its debut.
The best part of all of this is actually the framing narrative, The Writer's Story. Built directly into the game as you progress through its connected parts, you'll routinely jump back to a lighthouse where a writer tells the story of the game's other haunted artists: the painter, the actor, and the musician. Like those in the main games, the writer is dealing with her own hauntings, and I find the format classy and quite novel for the medium. It feels like a horror anthology, such as V/H/S, only in this case, all the individual stories ultimately share a universe.
This delivery is compelling, but it has the odd effect of making each individual piece more of a letdown, as they largely struggle to hold up on their own. Layers of Fear has always been more like an amusement park ride than a survival-horror experience, and that MO just doesn't feel conducive to generating actual tension. Even in these new versions--which try to add more possible game-over screens--moments are too scripted and enemies are basically non-existent. The novelty of entering a room, seeing something weird happen, then turning to find the environment has seamlessly changed before you is occasionally mind-melting, but never, ever scary.
The first game also feels desperate to avoid being misunderstood, to the point where its story is laid out so bare, it betrays the adage of "show, don't tell" at every turn. The Final Note DLC seeks to over-explain even more by putting you in the role of the one person you never play as in the original or its Inheritance DLC. Inheritance also winds up being mechanically frustrating due to some confusing puzzles, but its intent to show the world through the eyes of a child make it more memorable than anything the other pieces do, unless you count the new DLC's broken enemy encounters, during which the ghost chasing me get stuck halfway in the floorboards.
The highlight is certainly Layers of Fear 2, which does more with its setting and story than the rest of the series combined. Unlike the needlessly overt original, the sequel is perhaps too shrouded in metaphor at times, though it does make piecing it all together more interesting.
While the other games all take place in endless darkness, Layers of Fear 2 is set aboard a cruise ship where a movie was to be filmed, and it's not afraid to turn the lights on at times, constantly toying with different palettes and scenery. It winds up more memorable than the original's house, which feels the same room to room, albeit with some nightmarish scenes of its own to play off of. The story is at once a twisted tale of method acting, a dark tragedy, and a nearly constant homage to horror's past, with nods to The Shining, Psycho, and more laid out like displays in a horror museum. It's all narrated by actor Tony Todd too, who makes a great fit given the tenor of his voice, particularly if you're familiar with his body of work like Candyman and Final Destination.
Still, not even Layers of Fear 2 can break free of the series' shackles. Gameplay across the series largely comes down to walking, opening doors, and seeing what weird scene awaits on the other side. Some light puzzles mix up the pacing, but the new chase sequences feel one-note, many of them even using the same dialogue lines time after time. To its credit, this new edition is built on Unreal Engine 5 and seems to utilize the new Lumen lighting technology, which makes games like Fortnite so jaw-dropping to look at. Here, the colors are naturally not as bright as Epic's cartoonish battle royale, but the lighting tech is dazzling nonetheless. I stopped in my tracks many times across the 10-12 hours it takes to finish all five experiences simply because the game looks amazing.
It's just too bad it rarely does more than that. Before, Layers of Fear offered some stunning scenes and a moody atmosphere. Now, nearly a decade later, the game somehow reinvents itself but adds very few new strengths, while its weaknesses only stand out more due to the effort that went into justifying the project in the first place. It feels like the studio heard the complaint of a lack of true threats in the games, but in seeking to polish out that blemish, just left more faults.
For those who never played the original Layers of Fear games, this reimagined package is definitely a better first experience than the old versions, simply on account of looking better and adding the neat framing narrative of The Writer's Story. But for horror enthusiasts already well-versed in the series, its MO remains as smoke and mirrors. There are no real terrors lurking in the shadows just out of reach. There is only the suggestion of some, and like the many tortured artists at the center of its saga, they are left unfulfilled.
In one play session, I'm honing my skills with my main man Zangief. In another, I'm walking a fully customized avatar through a bustling city, its streets lined with AI-controlled strangers I can challenge to battle at my leisure. In a third, that same avatar is dropped into a massive room filled with arcade cabinets and other players looking for a fight. Street Fighter 6 learns an immediate lesson from the content-bare release of its predecessor, as it offers a variety of significant features and modes right out of the gate. It is a robust fighting game that is of premiere quality. Street Fighter 6 is incredible; a return to form for the franchise that welcomes both new fighters and seasoned pros.
SF6 splits its content into three hubs: Fighting Ground, which most closely emulates the classic SF experience; Battle Hub, where players can congregate to challenge each other and compete in tournaments; and World Tour, which is a sprawling, globe-trotting story mode with an open world and RPG hooks. Each format centers around the classic Street Fighter style of 2D fighting gameplay, and that excellent core experience is what drives everything.
Mechanically, Street Fighter 6 doesn't fall far from previous games in the series: You have multiple normal attacks, special attacks, Super Arts, and movement techniques specially designed for each of the roster's 18 characters. Some have an in-your-face style with heavy strikes and damaging throws, while others are better suited to keeping their distance and picking moments to strike. What distinguishes SF6 from previous iterations are the core universal mechanics shared by all characters. While the effects and execution are the same for each fighter, these mechanics have their own distinct flair and flourish of personality depending on the character you choose. These universal mechanics are also where much of Street Fighter 6's gameplay depth is.
The Drive system is SF6's new universal battle mechanic, and I'm amazed at how much it adds to a match despite being simple to grasp. By pressing the two medium attack buttons, I can parry an attack using Drive Parry, or, with Drive Rush, I can immediately dash forward out of it for a burst of speed that can catch opponents off guard or introduce new combo sequences. Functionally, players that are experienced with Street Fighter 4's Focus Attack Dash Cancel or Guilty Gear's Roman Cancels will feel right at home. By pressing both heavy attacks, I can initiate a Drive Impact that can stagger an opponent and leave them open, ensuring that overly defensive players can be opened up. If an opponent is backed into a corner, landing this will make them bounce off the wall, adding a variety of other strategic considerations and opportunities. Drive Reversals, meanwhile, allow me to block an attack and counter with a move that, while not very damaging, will help escape tricky spots. Finally, Overdrive lets me power up special attacks like the EX systems of old.
These aren't unlimited, however, as each move uses up part of a Drive Gauge just below the health bar, and a fighter can "burn out," which slows their movement and makes certain offensive and defensive moves inaccessible for a period. The strategic implications of this system cannot be overstated, as these new tools do wonders for the overall fighting system. Drive Impacts in particular can swing the tide of battle in an instant, as catching an unsuspecting opponent with one will allow you to put a hurting on them. Keeping these tools in front of your mind is key to victory, and luckily it's not an overwhelming amount to recall. One of the major criticisms leveled at Street Fighter 5 was the rigidity of battles, with some going so far as to call it turn-based. However, these new mechanics make Street Fighter 6 feel more fluid.
Despite these differences, all 18 characters somehow feel balanced. I imagine once the pros get their hands on the game, a few top fighters will emerge, but from the jump there was never a matchup I thought to be too difficult to overcome. Characters who have previously suffered in other areas have new abilities to make up for it--Zangief, for example, has a running throw with armor properties that can absorb projectiles, which are an old nemesis of his. The new fighters also fit right into the mold, perfectly complimenting the existing roster while also serving as a new puzzle for players to crack open. I've already seen some Manon players online that gave me nightmares, and can only imagine how much more potent these new faces will be in the hands of the Street Fighter faithful.
No matter how simple Street Fighter 6 can seem, novice players are going to feel some trepidation when stepping into the ring for the first time. The game is ready for you, though, as Capcom has implemented a new Modern control scheme that makes controlling fighters more like Super Smash Bros. than traditional Street Fighter. This gives new players a foundation from which to learn, but that growth does have a ceiling. If you decide to transition to the Classic control scheme, players will need to learn the manual input controls that have been used since Street Fighter 2. While Modern controls did not translate well for me personally--I've been throwing quarter-circle Hadokens since I was six years old--I always appreciate the offer of a new stepping stone for novice players.
The easiest place to learn SF6, in either Modern or Classic style, is in Fighting Ground, which is the "traditional" SF experience. This is where you'll find familiar modes like Arcade Mode, online ranked and casual matches, and offline versus modes. This section's shining feature, however, is its Practice area, which houses some of the best in-game tutorials the series has ever had.
Practice Mode has the classic freeform Training mode fans expect, but it also holds full tutorials for the game's core system as well as character guides and combo trials for all 18 characters on the roster. These character guides are a deep dive into what makes each fighter tick, as it explains not only their special moves, but also the best situations in which to use them. While I am a Zangief main, I've spent time in these modes to be confident enough with Marisa to take her online, and it didn't take me long to get there.
Fighting Ground also lets you tinker with in-game commentators, one of the more ballyhooed features of Street Fighter 6. The game allows players to pick real-world commentators from the fighting game community, who "call" matches as if players are competing at Evo. While the novelty is fun at first--hearing Steve "TastySteve" Scott and WWE's Zelina Vega in an official Street Fighter game is super cool--the excitement those commentators generate during an actual tournament isn't ever captured here. Those experiences are fueled by genuine, off-the-cuff reactions to the action on the screen and in the arena, while those same voices sound like they're reading situations from a script here (which, of course, is exactly what they are doing). It's a problem similar to what WWE video games have dealt with in the past; trying to script reactions in such a way that they sound spontaneous is incredibly hard to do, and this admirable attempt misses the mark.
If you're looking for a less traditional experience than what's offered in Fighting Ground, it's time to take a World Tour. This is a massive story mode with multiple chapters that unfolds across the entire world. The main hub is Metro City of Final Fight fame, and it is stuffed with things to do and references for longtime Capcom fighting game fans to find. The rest of the mode is broken up into smaller locations based on stages from the core game. Italy's Colosseo is where you find Marisa, and Jamaica's Bathers Beach is Dee Jay's hangout, for example. These are one-off locales you'll visit sparingly, so they're not as big as Metro City, but they all still have a charm to them.
The story being told in World Tour does not live up to the standard set by fighting games like Tekken 7 and Mortal Kombat 11. However, this isn't much of a problem, as everything happening around the story makes up for it in a big way. World Tour is essentially a Street Fighter RPG, where the fighting mechanics serve as the battle system, and it is very silly fun. As I'm walking through the streets of Metro City, I can challenge virtually anyone I want to a fight, be they a food truck attendant, an old lady going to the store, or a young troublemaker getting up to no good. Some potential opponents will initiate the attack instead, and can sometimes come in a group, forcing players to defeat a series of opponents. With every victory, my avatar gains experience and levels up both their core stats and the fighting styles I'm using at the time.
This "challenge anyone" mechanic is also technically impressive, as it really does let players challenge anyone. The game seamlessly goes from challenging a passerby, into a fight, and then returning to free roaming without loading. The "stage" is whatever we were standing in front of at that moment, and as I'm fighting, other NPCs that were standing around will flow into the background and cheer us on. There is a sacrifice being made here, however, and for some it might be a big one--there is a noticeable dip in frame rate when fighting in World Tour, one that immediately reverts to 60 FPS once you're out of a battle. And the visual quality of the stages and random fighters is nowhere near as good as Ryu fighting Ken on a carefully crafted stage. These performance issues are unfortunate, but I didn't focus on them much as I was too busy enjoying the silliness of fighting every Metro City denizen that passed by me, or using money to buy a hat that somehow improves my kicking power.
The hero in World Tour is a fully customizable avatar you create, and you have control over everything from their hair to their body size. As previously mentioned, clothing can be purchased or earned as rewards throughout the mode, with each piece of clothing offering a stat boost in a certain area. Also, if you have a favorite costume set, but you know you have more powerful gear, you can set your appearance separately from what's equipped. This lets you look how you want while also getting all of the benefits of the new gear you pick up, which is a huge plus. While I want to be able to fight like a ninja, I don't always want to look like one, and World Tour offers that flexibility.
Leveling up fighting styles is the other major customization option and growth path. Your avatar's moveset is in your hands, and as you progress through the story of World Tour, you meet the 18 "masters" of the world--aka the playable roster of Street Fighter characters. After earning their respect through mission completion or even a one-on-one fight, your avatar will be "enrolled" as a student and given access to that character's moveset. You'll pick a core moveset for normals, but then you can pick and choose which special moves you want your character to use. At one point, my avatar used Dee Jay's Rolling Sobat, Blanka's Rolling Attack, Chun-Li's Spinning Bird Kick, and Ken's Shoryuken, and I could change things up whenever I wanted. That versatility and ability to create your own fighter down to the moveset is something new for the franchise and a core part of what makes World Tour fun.
Using a fight stick to control an avatar in this mode is rough. The camera controls do not translate to a controller with only one stick, so getting around the city is cumbersome. The game does offer a solution, though not an elegant one: I can activate my fight stick as "Player 1" and my normal controller as "Player 2," and switch between the two at will depending on if I'm moving around Metro City or fighting a Mad Gear member. While this does mean extra space is needed for two controllers at once, I appreciate the convenience of the easy switch every time I want to use it.
Your avatar also takes center stage in the Battle Hub, which is the final section of the Street Fighter 6 experience. This is basically a middle ground between World Tour and Fighting Ground, where players bring their avatars into a massive dome lined with arcade cabinets. You can sit down at a cabinet and wait for a challenger while training, or you can join a queue of players already seated, the digital equivalent of putting a quarter on the machine.
This brings me to one of the major sticking points of any fighting game in the modern era: Netcode. Street Fighter 6's netcode sings, no matter who I'm fighting or, incredibly, which server I'm logged into. I made sure to log into the North America, South America, and Asia servers during my review time, and nearly every match I played in all three felt like my opponent was sitting in the room next to me. That's not to say it's perfect, as personal internet connections also are a major factor in performance, but the advent of rollback netcode has been a major boon to the entire fighting genre, and Street Fighter 6 is the latest beneficiary. I had a couple of matches in the North America region that did have some netcode issues, but my online play experience as a whole has been overwhelmingly positive.
If you want some variety, you can venture over to the classic games section of the hub, which offers full arcade ports of games from the classic Capcom catalog. Street Fighter 2, Final Fight, and Super Puzzle Fighter 2 Turbo were all available during the review period, and every one of them ran beautifully both when playing free play and shooting for the top of the leaderboard in High Score Challenge. Or, if you want something more novel, you can walk into the center of the arena and challenge anyone in there to a fight using your avatar, with each fighter based on their current World Tour builds. These fights can get wacky whether you're in them or spectating them, and they were always a welcome change of pace after multiple matches at the arcade machines. I expect Battle Hub to be a major hangout when the game launches, and while I cannot predict how the online experience will hold up when that happens, I can say that my time for this review was clean as a sheet.
Fighting games in the modern age live on through their extra content, and Street Fighter 6 is no exception. Capcom has not only already confirmed the first four characters coming via downloadable content, but, much like Street Fighter 5, the game will feature its own economy complete with multiple currencies--Drive Tickets that are earned in-game, and Fighter Coins that can be earned in-game or purchased separately--as well as a battle pass which will offer avatar gear, emotes, and other perks in both a free and premium track. Given how strong the base game is, having more content and being able to play the game in different ways is an exciting prospect.
I can't get enough of Street Fighter 6. It's been my last thought when I go to bed and my first thought when I wake up. It has a beautifully constructed fighting system, but also offers modes that take the game very seriously and, in other cases, not seriously at all. There are some small issues with performance in World Tour, but none of those are enough to derail the overall package. With the releases of new Tekken and Mortal Kombat games, it very much feels like we're in a new golden era for the fighting game genre. Thankfully, Street Fighter 6 steps into the arena looking good and fighting fit.
2010's Amnesia: The Dark Descent altered the horror genre forever as the breakout game made in a particular hide-and-seek style. It's one which relies on a lack of combat, putting players in horrifying situations they can't win, and demanding they run and hide instead. Through countless imitators and even a few sequels, Frictional Games has had its formula repeated, but Amnesia: The Bunker is not the latest in that lineage. It plays quite differently, though it still feels like a classic Amnesia game in vital ways, and it's this combination of old and new that helps make it the studio's scariest game since The Dark Descent.
Amnesia: The Bunker is, in some ways, the Amnesia you may know already. You'll play in first-person as a character who is suffering from memory loss and must piece together their own history, as well as that of the unnerving locale in which they inevitably find themselves. In The Bunker, that character is Henri Clement, a French soldier during World War I who loses consciousness while rescuing a fellow soldier from harm's way, then awakens in the titular bunker seemingly all alone--though he will soon wish that were truly the case.
Through scattered notes, the story of the labyrinthine bunker will come into focus. It's an entertaining, albeit detail-light, saga that seems to tie directly to other games in deep-cut ways that some players will appreciate. But it's just as easy to play it and not have any context for the story at all, or take it as a standalone horror story about a man trapped in a maze with a monster. It works well enough in each case, but it does feel like there's less narrative to unpack than past games in the series.
Amnesia: The Bunker is much less predictable than past games in the series, and even includes variable elements that change across playthroughs. This gives it more replayability than past games from Frictional, and it works really well in that way. Important items such as a wrench for creating shortcuts, a lighter to light torches, and dog tags that reveal locker codes can be found in different spots with each new playthrough. Even locker codes change across playthroughs--sorry, guide writers--meaning each player who enters the bunker is truly on their own, making the game more challenging in an age where answers are usually found online for those lost and scared.
The variable elements are an exciting new wrinkle, but they're also only an accompaniment to the game's centerpiece: its monster, which ceaselessly lurks throughout the bunker largely unscripted. This makes every encounter much scarier, as it tends to stay hidden unless you've messed up in some way. In this way, the monster is an enforcer to ensure you're operating at peak performance, and in the bunker that means several different things are happening: You'll want to keep the generator running, which provides lighting to the many corridors and wings you'll unlock and explore. You'll want to keep noise to a minimum, which means no sprinting through the halls, or at least hiding soon after doing so. It also means staying healthy, as you share the dark hallways with hungry rats who bite you and leave you bleeding, which the monster can trace back to you as it hunts.
I absolutely love these systems because they interact so well together. With limited inventory space, the game adds almost a management-sim element to it, where you'll sometimes need to make runs outside the safe room just to amass a few more canisters of gasoline, even if you happen to know where the next important quest item is, such as a key or a particular note. Whenever the fuel runs out, the lights go off, allowing the monster to roam freely, but with the lights on, the monster mostly only comes out when you've made too much noise. You could, in theory, beat the game entirely in the dark with nothing but your hand-cranked flashlight, but good luck to those trying. It is a ruthless, tireless, insatiable beast.
You can add new inventory slots by finding bags around the bunker, but even at max capacity, you won't have enough room to carry everything you need, which demands sacrifices. Do I take the watch that tells me how much time is left until the fuel is exhausted, or do I take the healing items in case the rats prove hard to evade? Do I throw an empty bottle to create a diversion, or do I bring it to the fuel room to fill up for the generator back in the safe room? There's no moment in a playthrough in which you won't be weighing options such as these, making every moment a thoughtful exercise in survival. All resources are finite, so using any of them must come with good reason or else you're damning yourself to failure.
Solutions have multiple right answers, too, which rewards or punishes smart or thoughtless decisions, respectively. For example, a locked door can be broken open with a thrown brick, shot with a gun, or opened with a key--if you happen to find it. Yes, Amnesia has a gun now, and if you're worried about it removing the game's best parts, don't be. The gun cannot kill the monster, and ammo is extremely limited. At best, it can stun the monster for a moment, giving you a chance to escape around a corner or drag a barrel in front of a door to impede its pursuit. You can merely slow the creature, and doing so only angers it.
I was also surprised to see how well the setting works. In previews, I was worried that the plain hallways would grow stale quickly, but not only does the game diversify its setting in interesting ways, but even those original images of standard military bunker corridors end up feeling interesting because of how shortcuts, hiding spots, and tools are tucked away in each of them. With a centralized supply room full of locked lockers, it's good to spend time seeking out combinations that unlock them, but as always, these considerations burn fuel and likely make noise, so it's always a risk. Every room feels very intentionally built and there's no wasted space in the game.
All of these variable elements combine to put more control in Amnesia players' hands than they've ever had before, and that tension--where you may live or die not because of a tough scripted moment, but because you created a problem for yourself--makes The Bunker the team's scariest game since 2010. Despite an impressive year of horror games so far, I believe Amnesia: The Bunker is the scariest game of 2023. It works incredibly well in its quiet moments, like when I'd hide under a bed or in a closet, hoping the monster doesn't spot me, as well as during chase sequences which had my heart in my throat every single time.
That feeling of being chased is so unnerving, especially in first-person through a pitch-black hallway as inhuman snarls close in on you. So often, I'd just barely make it back to the safe room with enough time to slam the door and lock it behind me. It's intense, and each time I survived, I felt my body loosen up as my heart rate would slowly return to normal. I've recently worried I've been desensitized to horror games since I've been playing them for 25 years. Amnesia: The Bunker helped me find those evasive thrills again. It's terrifying, and I love it.
The element that ties this all together is the game's incredible audio design. In such a lonesome and haunted space, Amnesia: The Bunker is the signature play-it-with-headphones experience. Each footstep echoes in such a way that feels betraying. Sometimes the monster may breathe on the other side of a wall as you inch past a group of rats, hoping they don't bite you. Even cranking the flashlight reverberates through the turn-of-the-century walls, which can be enough to give yourself away if the creature is close by. It's all so atmospheric that even if you aren't consuming its somewhat light story details, you'll be pulled into its world all the same.
Despite those numerous thrills, it's worth noting that they aren't all entirely novel. The way in which the monster roams the ceiling and walls around you, emerging unscripted from crawlspaces with the pounce of a lion when you screw up, is comparable to Alien: Isolation. This will make the game, as different from past Amnesia games as it is, a bit familiar to horror aficionados. Still, I feel as though the variable elements built on top of that mechanic, as well as the dizzyingly haunting setting, do elevate The Bunker's monster to something scarier than that particular xenomorph.
With reasons to return to the game after hitting the credits, Amnesia: The Bunker is the longest-lasting game in the series so far. And thanks to incredible atmosphere, opportunities for player creativity, and an inventory metagame that makes each success or failure entirely your own, Amnesia: The Bunker is proof that Frictional has still got it. This is a team that continues to refine the horror genre, and though I've found each of their games intriguing in different ways, they haven't scared me the way this one does in a long time.
With Diablo 4's release now here, it's sometimes difficult to reconcile that Diablo III is over a decade old. Its release was polarizing for a number of reasons, but its evolving formula of action role-playing endured, enjoying a resurgence with its post-launch expansion that carried through years of ongoing seasonal updates. It shouldn't come as a surprise, then, that each of those years helped inform the design of Diablo IV, a game which confidently delivers gameplay that has been carried forward and refined from both Diablo II and III, while also establishing a strong foundation for the franchise's future.
Diablo games have always contained stories for their single-player campaigns, but you'd be forgiven for thinking of past storylines as merely contextualization for the game's primary focus: dungeon-crawling. That's where Diablo IV makes one of its most striking changes: It not only takes its story far more seriously, but it tells one that's far more engrossing than ever before. As a traveling wanderer, you come across a small town of villagers on a snow-capped mountain range looking for some aid. After killing some creatures and returning, you're welcomed as a hero and given food and shelter, only for the villagers to try to use you in a ritual sacrifice to Lilith, co-creator of Sanctuary and recently resurrected antagonist of this tale, moments later. This encounter links you to Lilith, driving you forward on a quest to stop her plan of amassing an army for her own nefarious purposes.
Much of that sounds like standard Diablo fare. There's a big, bad demon, and you're the only one who can stop it. But Diablo IV makes intelligent use of Lilith, layering her motivations slowly to the point where you can't help but consider her side of the argument. She's not driven solely by the lust for destruction. Instead, she's grieving, with the place she once created to escape the endless cycle of war between heaven and hell now being used as a staging ground to continue it. She's an antagonist that has been slighted by those she trusted at every turn, and while her means of exacting justice provide the reason for your entire crusade in the first place, it's surprising and equally welcome when Diablo IV forces you to slow down and consider the true goal of your struggle.
The trope of the sole savior has been tried and tested in Diablo for years, and Diablo IV doesn't completely change that. Instead, it puts a much larger emphasis on companions than ever before, with most acts centered around a new party member rather than a demon you're eventually hunting down. An early standout is Vigo, a prideful knight who is forced to endure a conscience-ruining loss after a single, selfish decision. It's not just Vigo's remorse that is heart-wrenchingly conveyed, but also the horrors of his eventual redemption, leading to one of the more powerful character moments in the entire game. Vigo's story is a teaser for many similar arcs that follow, all of which do a great job of providing a cause for a character to join your fight while also contextualizing their motivations to continue (or abstain) from the enduring conflict. This applies to most of the allies you'll recruit in your fight against Lilith, each of which has their own motivations that feel faithful to their respective journeys. It's a level of care I can't recall being given to many past Diablo companions, and Diablo IV certainly makes far more liberal use of them through the campaign to make them feel purposeful.
Bringing together this ragtag group takes place over Diablo IV's extensive six acts, some of which you can tackle in different orders. Previous Diablo titles had each act accompanied by a change in locale, but in Diablo IV it only takes a few moments before you're given free rein to explore its intimidatingly large, interconnected map. Here you can transition from frigid mountaintops to desolate deserts in just a matter of minutes, with the transitional areas doing a good job of masking an otherwise jarring change. Having a static layout that you can learn and get comfortable with imbues exploration with a greater sense of wonder than previous hubs, which were often filled with enemies to kill before diving into the next dungeon. The geography also gives towns and larger cities a sense of place on a bigger map.
Each distinct area is shown off with a great amount of visual detail, with Diablo IV incorporating a delightfully macabre style that is befitting of its violent story. It's not trying to overly correct some of the criticisms laid on Diablo III either, with pops of color used tastefully to highlight areas of hope and kinship that contrast against the broader strokes of dread and fear paintingthe rest of the landscape. Things don't always hold up when the camera zooms into to give conversations a cinematic feel, as a degradation in detail on character models and environments is more discenrable. Regardless, it's still a striking presentation that looks incredible in motion, while also keeping information clear enough to read when fights get chaotic.
The moment-to-moment action in Diablo IV is one of its strongest traits, which is for the best given how genre-defining the series has been over the years. There's an argument to be made that Diablo III went too far in the direction of simplification, and that's exactly where the Diablo IV course-corrects in smart ways. You're still limited to a total of six active abilities at a time--four on your hotbar and two on each mouse button for those on PC--but how you construct your build is no longer linear. Instead, each new level lets you invest a point in a branching skill tree, with each of its core nodes branching out further into new abilities and associated passive perks. You need to invest a certain number of total points to continue unlocking each of these nodes, so you will have to think carefully about abilities and how they serve your greater build. It's a system that allows for a lot of flexibility, letting you experiment with focusing on one specific ability as the foundation of your build or dabbling with ways to combine two entirely different paths, such as empowering your summoned skeletons while also firing off loads of blood-infused magic as a Necromancer.
Experimentation is further encouraged by Diablo IV's low cost to respec, and unlimited chances to do so. Unlike the more punishing approach in Diablo II, you can completely redefine your build at any time for a small fee of in-game gold, approaching your skill tree with a different idea in mind or just making some small changes to adjust for a difficult fight. This freedom is empowering in a similar way to that of Diablo III's fluid build system, but still requires you to engage meaningfully with synergies to make your builds viable. It feels like the culmination of all the ways previous games in the series have allowed you to play while catering to as many playstyles as possible, but without many of the critical compromises from the last time out. The cost for a respec does naturally increase the higher your level, but it never got to a point where I felt it was too expensive in relation to the amount of gold I was earning at the time.
Thanks to this system, I felt free to continually change up my approach to my Necromancer. I started with a combination of skeleton summoning, shadow damaging attacks, and some blood spells for survivability. The Necromancer's unique ability lets me either summon minions from corpses or sacrifice the ability entirely for passive advantages, which lead me to realize that I could theoretically play a Necromancer entirely as a pseudo-mage with blood and bone abilities. After some taxing boss battles, I decided to go all in on a summoning build that accentuated the abilities of my skeleton soldiers, mages, and large, hulking golem, each of which had three different variations I could combine to find perfect synergy. It was consistently satisfying to find a build that worked for a couple of hours and then completely change it, either through necessity or curiosity. Seeing small decisions manifest as big changes in terms of overall viability gives me faith that each class is going to be picked apart for various approaches that maximize elements of different playstyles.
While the skill tree is where you will ultimately establish the basis of your build, Aspects of Power are a new facet of the role-playing formula that allows you to hone it. These collectible skills (so to speak) can be combined with rare pieces of gear to turn them into custom legendary items, imbued with the exact ability that complements the build you're constructing. This alleviates some of the headaches associated with grinding out dungeons in the hopes of a particular legendary piece of gear dropping, while also providing a new avenue of options for build construction. That isn't to say that it diminishes the rush of a big legendary drop though. Legendary weapons can often feature the same abilities that Aspects do, but will regularly have better percentage rolls on their effectiveness, still making them the ideal path to the most optimal late-game builds.
Aspects of Power are obtained by clearing the many dungeons sprawled around the map, each of which feature their own multi-stage objectives to complete. Some are as simple as killing enemies and depositing their souls to progress further, while others require you to hunt down a specific foe in search of a key that lets you reach lower levels of the dungeon. Each of these concludes with a boss fight, which for the most part are less interesting than those found in main story dungeons. Bosses throughout the story are multi-layered bouts, with shifting enemy attacks that can completely change the landscape you're fighting in, forcing you to consistently think about positioning and when the best moments for attack are. Bosses in these more common dungeons lack that sense of complexity, and I often found my skeleton warriors completely overwhelming many of them to the point where many of the bosses would just stand in place and attack until dead. Given the sheer number of dungeons on offer, it might not have been possible to retain the same level of tension across every boss encounter, but when you're bouncing between several of these as you grab Aspects of Power throughout your campaign, it's difficult not to notice the stark contrast in quality between the two.
As with any Diablo title, Diablo IV is nowhere near complete once you've rolled credits on the campaign. World Tiers return to incentivize you to go through everything again with a higher degree of difficulty but also more rewards to reap. It's welcome that Diablo IV retains the option that allows you to jump into a more challenging World Tier from the start this time, preventing a potentially frustrating first playthrough devoid of any meaningful challenge. Outside of increasing the World Tier, the map becomes littered with additional side activities that join regular side quests, rotating open-world dynamic quests (similar to patrols in Destiny 2), and Strongholds. These are extremely hostile areas that are densely populated with enemies usually a level or two higher than you, providing a larger challenge to overcome than regular groups of foes around the open-world. Minor objectives also make this feel like smaller-scale, open-air dungeons, with new waypoints and merchants usually unlocked once you've rid the area of the threat. Larger scale world boss fights that are best tackled with numerous other players you will find in the open world are also available, although no multiplayer features were available during the review period.
Whispers of the Dead encapsulate timed bounties that popup throughout the world, with each one rewarding you with an additional currency that can be turned in for caches of gems, weapons, and more. Nightmare Sigils, which can be obtained through completing Whispers of the Dead quest, can be used to unlock additional Nightmare Dungeons. These add new modifiers to existing dungeons around the map that can do anything from changing the types of enemies you encounter to rolling new random abilities they might have at their disposal, with the allure of even rarer loot drops enticing you to run them over and over again.There is a familiar but equally expansive framework in place already in Diablo IV that should satiate you across multiple playthroughs, with plans already detailed by Blizzard to expand on this through seasons of new content similar to that of Diablo III.
Diablo IV, at this time, cannot escape comparison to the past of the franchise it belongs to, but it's thankfully a game that has been crafted with a strong awareness of what made each one either revered or reviled. It represents a measured approach to combining the many elements from previous entries that worked into a system that feels like the new standard-bearer for action role-playing. Coupled with a new benchmark for storytelling in the franchise, and a solid narrative foundation for any potential new adventures, it's easy to see Diablo IV as something I'll regularly check-in on for a long time to come.
This is the premise of Humanity, a new spatial puzzle game from developer Tha and publisher Enhance Games. Players familiar with the Enhance Games library of titles like Rez and Tetris Effect likely have some idea of what to expect: an artsy experience with chill vibes, minimalistic yet striking visuals, intuitive gameplay, experimental music, and an undercurrent of positivity and warmth. Humanity ticks all of those boxes off easily, while also establishing itself as a unique and charming puzzle game that both calls back to old favorites and adds interesting new innovations.
As the nameless meme-dog, you are tasked with guiding the stream of humans that emerges from a mysterious portal "into the light"--a specially marked square on the field. To accomplish this, you place directional commands on spaces where the flow of humans are walking. If they need to turn left to avoid careening into a pit, you bark and leave a marker to tell them to turn left. Simple! It's a little bit of Lemmings, but perhaps more akin to Dreamcast sleeper classic Chu Chu Rocket.
But then things get more complicated. Stages (known in-game as "trials") are broken up into sets of "Sequences," built around new abilities and gameplay elements. The levels become tall, towering structures where height and depth are prominent factors. Gimmicks appear, such as fans, conveyor belts, and switches that require a flow of human traffic to activate, forcing you to learn how to effectively herd the masses. Suddenly, you have the power to make the humans jump over obstacles, to float in the air, or break into separate groups. You learn the things humans can do inherently without your guidance: Climbing. Swimming. Grouping together to push heavy but movable objects. A rival faction, known only as the "Others," appears. Weapons appear. And yet, throughout it all, you struggle, you persevere, and you guide humanity to the light for an unknown yet seemingly noble purpose.
Many stages contain a giant, golden human avatar called Goldy, who represents the wishes, dreams, and desires of the populace. Goldy must be touched by and assimilated into the flow of humanity as well, and guided to the exit. Yes, you can usually finish the trial without all of the Goldys, but not always. And you will need a certain number of Goldys not just to get a bunch of neat new options and cosmetic unlocks, but to open the final trial of each sequence. For what is humanity without its dreams and desires? Just an endless, mindless march.
It all starts simply enough, though. The way Humanity gradually builds, easing you into new mechanics and gameplay concepts, is immensely satisfying: Your reward for overcoming a difficult trial is something new and exciting to experiment with and challenge. Controls are simple and intuitive, and the basic visuals make it easy to understand what's going on at a glance--a blessing when thousands of humans are flooding out into the level. Humanity is an easy game for anyone to pick up and play, and that's great.
The visual and control simplicity does cause some problems at times, however. In particular, the platforming elements can be a little bit fiddly. It's especially hard sometimes to tell at what depth and position your dog-avatar is at, leading to many instances where you find yourself careening off a cliff. (You can't actually die, but it can still be an annoyance at times when you need to move and react quickly.) Surmising what platforms you can and can't scale without a bit of help can be a bit tricky, too. If you're lucky enough to be playing the game in stereoscopic 3D with VR, however, I'm sure this is much less of an issue.
Physics also plays a part in several of Humanity's puzzles: Jumping, floating, pushing, and group movement are among the mechanics you're taught from a very early stage in the game. They can feel awkward to work with at first, but I eventually got a grasp on how they functioned through a lot of trial and error. Sometimes, however, unpredictable things happen. Large crowds can sometimes push a few stragglers out of the boundaries you've set,causing a host of unexpected problems as they hit hazards, move objects, and trigger switches you didn't intend them to. This tends to happen more often when using the fast-forward feature--which you'll use a lot. It's frustrating to have to restart a stage because a few stray humans were pushed out of their "herd" and caused problems.
As part of Humanity's accessibility features, every puzzle includes an optional video showing a correct solution (though not always how to obtain the Goldys). As someone who does not consider themselves particularly good at spatial puzzles, I am not ashamed to admit making use of this feature at times when I felt completely, hopelessly stumped. But it's an inelegant and somewhat overbearing way of helping folks. A hint system would have been a welcome addition; I often felt like sometimes, all I needed was a little nudge in the right direction rather than having the whole solution spelled out for me.
You can just look up what you need in the video, but navigating playback using only the PlayStation controller is… not great. Some sort of rewind feature would also be nice for those times when you mistakenly lay down the wrong command or screw up a directional input and mess up minutes' worth of setup. The need for multiple trial-and-error restarts can be aggravating.
Taken as a whole, however, Humanity is a charming, engaging, and inviting puzzle adventure of a breed that seems all too rare nowadays. Its constantly-evolving gameplay, unique premise, and striking audiovisual landscape make for a game that's easy to get sucked into for long periods of time. Even better, when you finish the main game, you can dive into the various user-created levels folks all over the globe are already crafting--or try your own hand at creation. Creation is something humanity excels at, after all.
When it comes to art, I'm something of a masochist. I listen to music that the average listener might describe as "unlistenable." I relish in the skin-crawling cringiness of the major motion picture musical Cats. I gravitate toward games that make me beat my head against the wall, for better or for worse. However, every pain junkie has their limit, and The Lord of the Rings: Gollum pushed me to mine--and then some.
The long-delayed stealth adventure from Daedalic Entertainment, centered around one of Middle-earth's most iconic (if not exactly likable) characters, does not simply miss the mark here or there: It's an unbridled disaster of truly epic--like, Tolkien-level epic--proportions. Beyond its overly simple level design, jarringly dated graphics, and deeply uninteresting gameplay, The Lord of the Rings: Gollum is broken to the point where it's nearly unplayable, making it one of the worst uses of a licensed property in recent memory.
The game begins in Cirith Ungol, the Orc-infested outskirts of Mordor, some 60 years after Bilbo Baggins stole the One Ring from our slimy, frail protagonist, Sméagol--or Gollum, as he's come to be known. Taking place not long before the events laid out in The Fellowship of the Ring, the crux of the story is instantly recognizable to anyone even peripherally familiar with the series: Gollum must find Bilbo and take back his "precious" at any cost, while avoiding the wrath of Sauron along the way.
You control Gollum in third person (except when swimming, weirdly). Being barely capable of lifting a metal spoon, let alone wielding a weapon, combat is not the focus, save for occasional opportunities to sneak up from behind for a strangle-kill, which he's somehow able to muster the energy for. Instead, the game revolves around all things stealth. You utilize relatively sparse climbable surfaces to creep around from above, crawl through the shadows to stay out of sight on ground level, and throw stones to knock out light fixtures or distract guards.
Before going any further, we need to address the elephant (or Mûmakil, if you will) in the room: In the state it was in at time of review, The Lord of the Rings: Gollum was not ready to be played. In my roughly 11 hours of playtime on "Performance" mode on a PlayStation 5, the game crashed over 120 times (yes, I counted; masochist, remember?), averaging about one crash every five minutes. After my 20th-or-so crash, I got the dreaded "save data corrupted" message, only to realize I'd lost half a day's progress upon reloading. In multiple other instances, game-breaking bugs--such as a companion I was charged with protecting instantly dying over and over again for no discernible reason--forced me to restart entire levels, losing significant progress. Finally, during an especially tedious and time-consuming puzzle, the crashes became too frequent to possibly make it to the next checkpoint in time. Determined though I was to get through to the end and make these setbacks feel worthwhile, I threw in the towel at 40% completion, defeated.
After suffering through and starting a new game, overwriting the data from my original playthrough, I tried turning off a setting I had previously overlooked: "Gollum Hair Simulation." Doing so significantly decreased the number of crashes, though it did not seem to have much of an effect on other major bugs throughout. All that this setting seems to do is make Gollum's hair look a little bit greasier and more fluid, which--if you ask me--doesn't exactly sound worth the near-constant rebooting. As such, I highly recommend making sure that this setting is turned off, if you decide to put yourself through this game.
Beyond these potentially game-ruining issues, The Lord of the Rings: Gollum is packed to the brim with all other sorts of bugs, ranging from hilarious to white-knuckle-frustrating. Sometimes, I loaded into checkpoints only to find myself stuck in the ground, before promptly dying in a disgusting gurgle. Other times, I got stuck in "crouch," or became unable to move entirely, forcing me to restart the game. Cutscenes frequently end abruptly, cutting off the regularly out-of-focus NPCs mid-sentence. A harrowing escape scene will be set to dramatic music in one run, and then entirely silent the next. The list goes on.
Even in the rare instances when the game is humming along without a hitch, the graphics in The Lord of the Rings: Gollum are remarkably unrefined for a 2023 release. The environmental art design can be compelling from a distance, particularly in the hellish underground fortress of Barad-dûr, where you spend most of the first half of the game as a prisoner-slave. But up close, the vines, rock faces, and pits of fire that make up the world around you are mostly flat, lacking in detail, and sometimes just straight up blurry. Bubbles underwater only come into frame when you stand still, and appear as motionless, hand-drawn circles. Some of the cave art inspected in Gollum's den early in the game looks like it could have literally been drawn in Microsoft Paint. The NPCs look more on par with characters you'd expect to see in 2011's The Lord of the Rings: War in the North than a current-gen game. And while Gollum himself is comparatively impressive in terms of art and animation, his cartoonishly cross-eyed style won't be for everyone, and even he often appears out of focus. Again, the list goes on.
Daedalic has said some of these issues will be addressed with a day one patch. What will be fixed remains to be seen, but in its pre-patched state, this game is simply too far from finished to suggesting anyone play it, let alone considering its $60 price tag.
Now, technical achievement isn't the sole determining factor when it comes to fun. There are plenty of examples of games that were riddled with issues upon release, but, carried by the strength of their gameplay, still managed to be an overall enjoyable experience. Unfortunately, The Lord of the Rings: Gollum is not an example of such a game. Its most glaring gameplay issue is its mission design. Sans a few slightly more in-depth objectives at big story moments, the majority of your tasks amount to some version of, "Follow the person!" "Collect the thing!" or, in one case, literally "Stand in line!" It would be one thing if these missions took place in a large, open-world environment, but instead, the majority of them in the first half of the game are set in the cramped confines of Barad-dûr, where you're forced to repeatedly revisit many of the same locations in order to progress the story. The game is entirely linear, so the path to the next checkpoint always feels on rails, leaving no real room for exploration or outside-the-box thinking.
The cookie-cutter nature of the missions is not offset by a particularly fun or inventive traversal system, either. Getting from point A to point B almost always involves utilizing the same small set of tools--namely, climbing a predefined path on a wall, shimmying along ledges, and jumping from monkey bars. It feels like they cherry-picked a few of the most basic climbing mechanics from the games that popularized them, but failed to contextualize them with the variety or freedom necessary to make the experience rewarding.
When it comes to stealth, the gameplay is no less basic, mostly thanks to the befuddling incompetence of the enemy AI. Crawling through the shadows is enough to keep you hidden from the Orc guards. They may even notice you making your way across a room and go to investigate, but if you enter a shadow in time, you'll be fully invisible to them, even when they are no more than a few inches away. Occasionally you'll need to remove a light source to make it through, which the Orcs respond to by walking over, staring at it for a moment, and then returning to their path without turning it back on.
Though the gameplay is, more often than not, too easy, you are significantly hindered by Gollum's stats. Your stamina, which is required for running and climbing certain objects, depletes quickly and reloads at a snail's pace. Your health is similarly fragile; you take fall damage from sometimes hilariously low heights, and resources to replenish HP (worms and mushrooms, mostly) are few and far between. There are no new abilities or upgrades to unlock in the game. While it is a potentially interesting idea to reflect Gollum's withered nature in the character's lowly base stats, it ends up playing out more like an annoyance than a meaningful storytelling device.
The story is, however, the best thing that The Lord of the Rings: Gollum has going for it, and it's backed by an appropriately epic soundtrack. Moments of dialogue between Gollum and his alter-ego Sméagol, where you must convince the other personality to go along with a decision, serve as interesting glimpses into the internal moral struggle of the character that made him so archetypal in the first place (even if the voice acting guiding these scenes pales in comparison to Andy Serkis’ iconic portrayal in the films). A handful of new characters add some context and texture to what is one of the least explored periods of time in Tolkien's series.
Even so, they could have gone much deeper, and the game surrounding the story is ultimately too much of a distraction for it to feel truly resonant. Daedalic might have been better off investing more resources into enriching the story and approaching the game as one of its hallmark point-and-click adventures, instead of shooting for the stars. As it stands, there may be enough here for lore-hungry diehard fans of the series to sink their teeth into, but for the average player, the story can't shoulder the weight of the rest of the game.
Much like Gollum's quest for the One Ring, my quest to complete The Lord of the Rings: Gollum was full of endless setbacks, impossible odds, and ever-increasing levels of madness. And, like Gollum, my journey was doomed from the start. So if the developers' main goal was to really put you in the shoes of such a pitiful, unloveable character faced with constant pain and suffering at every turn, they were at least successful at that.
Lego thrives on versatility and variety. The brand has become associated with everything from model towns to outer space to licensed franchises like Star Wars to original IP like Bionicle and Ninjago. Lego 2K Drive is relatively narrow compared to the wide array of Lego iconography, but that laser-like focus works in its favor. The team at 2K and Visual Concepts has made a great racing game first, allowing the Lego elements to organically add both an astounding amount of customization and flavorful visual flourishes to make a lively and enjoyable open-world driving experience.
Under the hood, Lego 2K Drive is a combination of open-world racing games like Burnout Paradise or Forza Horizon and kart racers like Mario Kart or Sonic All-Stars. The main campaign has you exploring three big biomes, each with their own wide variety of activities and events, punctuated by kart races against rival drivers who run these regions. But part of what makes both exploring and racing so fun is how toy-like it feels, thanks to some smart systems that remove any possible friction from exploration.
When driving around in a typical open-world racer, you may have to set a waypoint to your next objective and spend a few minutes making your way over by following the roads. In Lego 2K Drive, your vehicle auto-switches from roadster to off-road vehicle to boat based on whatever you need at a given time. The click-clack of your vehicle instantly reconstituting itself into something new when you hop from a road to a river just feels great every time. A generous nitro boost and a dedicated jump button mean you can hop over obstacles and scale hills with ease. Other cars or small buildings in the way? No problem, just smash right through them and they'll explode into a thousand Lego bricks, building your boost meter in the process. This effectively makes the whole world your playground, letting you carve paths through it. There's almost never a hard barrier between you and the fun.
Naturally, the races are more tightly controlled. To keep them competitive, there are checkpoints and hard walls. But the races add another layer that isn't present in the open world, in the form of power-ups. This is a staple of kart racers, and the ones present here are, for the most part, fun and diverse ways to mess with your opponents. You can instantly tell the rocket icon will let you fire a homing missile on your next opponent, for example, or that the ghost icon makes you invulnerable to obstacles for a short time. Power-ups with less universally recognizable icons, like a rolling mine, become clear enough after the first time you use them.
The one major miss among the power-ups is the spider web, which falls into the kart racer weapon category of obstructing your opponent's view and slowing them down. That effect would be fine by itself, but it also forces you to jam on a button to clear the web, which just feels too distracting and unfair in the middle of a race. On top of that, the button is mapped to the same one as jump, so after clearing the web you're almost guaranteed to accidentally jump when you didn't mean to. (A late-game race against a spider-themed rival was especially frustrating for this reason).
The campaign's three biomes are bursting with things to do in addition to traditional kart races. There are also On-The-Go events that trigger automatically when you drive through a gate, minigames like Rescue (help townspeople from rampaging skeletons, clowns, etc) or Defend (protect a set of towers), World Challenges to set time records, and Quests where you help a townsperson with some odd job. Two of the three biomes--Big Butte County and Prospecto Valley--can feel similar due to their sheer cliffs and rural landscapes, but the third is a radical departure both thematically and visually. And sometimes your activities can have permanent effects on the world, like mowing down weeds to replace them with speed-boosting crystals or unlocking jump-jets that will populate throughout the biomes.
With a wide variety of vehicles that have their own stats, Lego 2K Drive also smartly lets you set a handful of loadouts that can be swapped anytime you're not actively in an event. One of your loadouts may be more focused on maxing out your acceleration while another could focus on hairpin turns. I had one loadout set aside for when I wanted to mow down weeds without having to manually swap my off-road vehicle to a lawnmower. As you progress through the campaign, you'll also unlock the ability to equip an increasing number and more powerful perks, which can have a huge impact on your racing style and strategy. The presentation is perfectly kid-friendly, but the racing hooks are deep enough to draw in arcade racing fans of any age.
While most of the campaign is a smooth ride, I did hit a pacing issue once when nearing the end, when I needed to grind some levels to qualify for the next phase in the story. I found that most of the minigames and Quests awarded very little XP, so my best bet was to replay races I had already completed on harder or even easier difficulties. It was a small roadbump, but notable regardless since it added an hour or so of extra playtime to what is already an 8-10-hour core campaign. The length would have been perfectly satisfying without the extra padding. The final race in the Sky Cup Grand Prix is an especially thrilling high point, pun intended, and even after finishing the campaign, the open world still feels inviting and fresh with tons of challenges I haven't even touched yet.
While not exactly affiliated with The Lego Movie, Lego 2K Drive obviously took tonal cues from that hit animated movie. The setting is mostly city-based sets, and the writing carries that same sense of tongue-in-cheek all-ages humor that occasionally breaks the fourth wall. The interplay between the two race announcers (Vikki Wheeler and Parker Carr) is a highlight, with hilarious commentary before major races. Your ultimate goal is to gather enough flags to qualify for the Sky Cup Grand Prix, the ultimate racing competition held in a floating race course in the clouds, which is currently dominated by an obnoxious cheater named Shadow Z. A veteran racer named Clutch Racington sees potential in you and becomes your clueless comic mentor, ushering you through the steps of your journey to become the ultimate driver and unseat Shadow Z.
With all that emphasis on plucking your racer from obscurity to become the new champion, you might expect there to be heavy character customization, but sadly no. You can pick from a handful of premade models, but you can't craft your own Lego minifig character from scratch, or even mix-and-match the parts from the models you have available. More models unlock throughout the campaign and there are more available in the shop, however.
That's an odd oversight given how remarkably robust Lego 2K Drive is with its vehicle-crafting features. The building interface is incredibly flexible and evocative of an actual Lego building set, with the same snap-on satisfaction of putting each individual brick into place. The menus are so full-featured that it can be a little overwhelming at first, but it doesn't take long to get a feel for all your options and start tinkering away. And once you start, it's hard to stop. There's almost no limit to what you can do with the tools. You could start a build from scratch, modify an existing model with new parts, or even just give your favorite car a custom paint job.
Ultimately the building options are cosmetic, and no amount of flaps will make your car airborne. How it actually handles comes down to stats, which is its own sub-menu. While the pre-built vehicles you obtain in the campaign will have their own values assigned to stats like top speed and health, in build mode you can select from several stat packages that balance their values with names like "Healthy Option" (high health) or "Edging Out" (good top speed and maneuverability at the expense of health). You can purchase higher-tier stat packages with your earned cash, but they're all relatively inexpensive and the presets keep any of them from feeling unbalanced. It's also nicely flexible in that there doesn't seem to be a limit on which stats you can attach to vehicles. Vehicles are given weight classes based on their number of pieces, but I had no problem attaching the same stat package to both a Light and Very Heavy vehicle.
For a more meditative experience, the build shop also includes an Instructions mode, made to imitate the feeling of actually building a Lego set from a bag full of parts. It breaks down one of the pre-built models, giving you individual steps with several parts to assemble, and then you simply grab them one at a time to rotate and then click them into place. I've always enjoyed the relaxed, therapeutic experience of putting together a Lego set, and this captures that feeling almost precisely.
Expanding your collection of cars to have more to build and modify is where Lego 2K Drive appears to aim to have longevity. A season pass called the Drive Pass promises more racers and vehicles, but it isn't active at the time of this review. Aside from a wide array of vehicles, you also earn money through the campaign. But having completed it, I have barely enough to buy a few cars, so it seems clear that the goal is to keep players coming back long-term. I'm satisfied with my current collection and I'll see what the Drive Pass has to offer, but completionists will definitely need to commit to earn a full collection of cars and racers. You can also buy a premium currency and then turn it into the in-game currency, which can certainly be a concern for a kid-friendly game with slow in-game progression. But since any competitive advantage comes from the inexpensive stat packages themselves, there doesn't seem to be a competitive advantage for the DLC vehicles.
Whatever the future holds, Lego 2K Drive is already a complete package--a raucous arcade racer that marries elements of open-world racing and kart racing and wraps it all in a bright, playful Lego package. It has enough real racing bona fides to satisfy adults, but the most pleasant surprise is how its combination of humor, explosive action, and robust building tools will make you feel like a kid again.
In After Us, you play as Gaia, a young spirit tasked with tracking down and salvaging the souls of the last creatures on Earth. These include animals like the aforementioned canine, the last dog who died of hunger, and coming across others lead to plenty of somber moments of human cruelty--the last eagle caged and plucked, for instance, and the final whale to be harpooned. There's a present-day storyline that runs parallel that isn't all that interesting as it's difficult to relate to the mostly-silent Gaia, who displays small signs of emotion during certain cutscenes but seems to largely view the world around her with passivity. The history of this Earth's past, which you uncover in your pursuit of the lost animal souls and optional collectibles, is far more captivating and works as a strong narrative backbone for the platformer.
Running and jumping are Gaia's primary ways of navigating the world, and these actions are complemented by other platforming staples like hovering, rail-grinding, wall-running, and dashing. She's a bit too floaty and loose to control in certain platforming segments--there were quite a few moments where a frustrating mistiming meant I accidentally leaped over a floating chunk of freeway and plunged to my death or sprinted a step too far and skidded off the top of a skyscraper. Most often, failure was the result of the controls working against me, not my own mistakes. Thankfully, the checkpoint system in After Us is relatively forgiving so even the most irritating of deaths are only small setbacks.
The platforming mechanics excel in more momentum-driven instances, like running up the sides of dilapidated steel structures to reach the top of a signal tower that's slowly falling apart or leaping between power lines as lightning crackles around you and briefing illuminates the next jump you need to make. The momentum of Gaia's movements makes things tricky when the game asks you to take things slow and focus on precision, but the exciting sense of speed she can achieve makes for some fun highlights during the game's more action-focused moments.
After Us occasionally dips its toes into combat and puzzles too, the latter of which I enjoyed more than the former. Combat is quite simple and not very engaging. As Gaia races through the world, she'll run into the final remnants of mankind, the oil-coated Devourers. They lumber after Gaia, lunging at her with easily dodgeable grapples. If they do happen to nab her, escaping the grab is a simple quick-time event. They don't pose much of a threat to the nimble Gaia, who can put them to rest with ease by blasting them with a ball of pure life energy. Combat does get a bit trickier when shielded enemies show up--in a fun twist, they use television screens to block out your weapon, life, to protect their oil-dependent lives. In these fights, you have to time Gaia's attacks instead of just blasting indiscriminately. But these enemies soon become easy to overcome as well, especially with regular use of Gaia's quick-to-charge, area-of-effect stun. Battles against Devourers are just too simple and samey to be enjoyable.
The puzzles, on the other hand, are a delight. For the most part, they aren't overly complicated, avoiding the trap of falling into tedium. Pretty much every puzzle is built around the platforming but what you're being tasked to do changes to reflect the various environments, creating a nice diversity of challenges. One moment, you have to figure out how to reach junction boxes to power on a TV, then flip between channels until you find the one that will teleport you to the next platform you have to reach. The next, you're slowly ascending through a series of bird cages that open and close whenever Gaia uses her area-of-effect stun on them, forcing you to carefully time the momentum of your running and jumping with the speed of your attacks. After Us regularly builds on its puzzles within the same level too, sometimes several times, creating complexity and challenge by requiring increasingly difficult execution. I may know that I need to plug in the television and change it to the airplane channel to progress--it's a variation of a problem I'd already solved earlier--but now I have to figure out how to reach three junction boxes to power the TV on, not just one. It's the same problem, so I understand what I need to do at the jump, but now it's just a bit harder.
This style of puzzle progression allows After Us to maintain the forward momentum of its story. You're rarely wracking your brain over where you need to go or what exactly you need to do for very long. And even if you do run into a roadblock with a puzzle, After Us is rather open-ended following its very linear opening. Soon into the game, the path forward branches, giving you a choice over where you want to go next. A fast travel system makes it easy to return to these branches whenever you want, meaning you can take a break from the path you're on at any given moment if it's giving you trouble and return to it later. This also eases the pressure for completionists as you can go back to grab collectibles you missed--which are graciously marked on your map regardless if you actually saw them when you passed them by--at any point.
The star of the show, however, is the visuals. The abstract nature of the spaces that Gaia explores depicts the impact of humanity on nature in this horrific yet oddly beautiful way. Polluted skies crackle with fierce lightning, illuminating crumbling buildings and pools of sentient oil that greedily reach for Gaia with hungry tendrils as she passes, desperate to consume the last remnants of meager light in an increasingly dark world. A dark room is littered with angelic feathers, dozens of empty cages strung up above hinting at the desperate last days of the birds that once filled the skies--skies that now cloud your vision with viscous smoke. Most eerie of all are the lifeless statues that populate every level of the game, as if all of humanity was simultaneously petrified at the dawn of the end of the world.
Optional collectibles slowly reveal how the world came to be this way but it isn't hard to discern if you pay attention. The dry oceans, razed forests, and trash-choked cities all speak to a civilization that continued to take and take without any care for future generations. After Us' visual storytelling doesn't wholly condemn humanity, however, using brief snippets of love and hope among the rubble of civilization to add a dash of tragedy to the decimation. There's a bewitching sadness to the whole thing, with the abstract world feeling reminiscent of experiences like Little Nightmares and Inside.
You can find statues of running children, frozen mere inches away from their parents' outstretched arms, just short of being reunited as the world came to a close. You can find the petrified remains of people gathering together in an illuminated square of brilliant light and just holding one another, choosing hope even as the world burned down around them. For as much as After Us initially decries humanity and labels them as Devourers, the agents of consumption and greed, the game ultimately posits that they are victims of their own hubris, with too many who confused the pursuit of progress for happiness.
The surreal world design of After Us' dystopian world carries the game, encouraging you to keep going even when the momentum-driven platforming and creative puzzles give way to tedious combat. Gaia isn't all that compelling a protagonist, but the stories she uncovers--whether they're of the Earth's final animals or the Devourers who killed them--make up for it, inviting you to delve deeper into the dark of After Us' dying world and uncover exactly how it all fell apart.
The Boltgun is perhaps Warhammer 40,000's most iconic weapon, yet it took until now for a video game to really nail its pulverizing impact. The Space Marine's Bolter (as it's commonly known) is not the machine gun equivalent it's often portrayed as in other games. This powerful firearm is essentially a rapid-fire rocket launcher, capable of penetrating almost any armor and then blowing up the Imperium's enemies from the inside out. Developer Auroch Digital clearly understood the assignment with Warhammer 40,000: Boltgun, as the eponymous weapon is tremendously fun to use as you rip and tear your way through eight hours of '90s-inspired first-person shooting. The Bolter roars with an emphatic racket, and each pull of the trigger packs an almighty punch, ferociously propelling these explosive rounds through flesh and bone until the battlefield is little more than a crimson pile of viscera and sinewy chunks.
Classic retro shooters like Unreal Tournament and Quake are obvious inspirations behind Boltgun's fast-paced and frenetic combat, but it's the original Doom that feels like the principal source of reverence. The use of 2D sprites alongside 3D environments, color-coded keycard hunting, and garish, over-the-top violence all harken back to id Software's seminal title. Boltgun is unashamedly a Doom clone with a Warhammer skin, but Auroch has sprinkled in some modern touches, too, from the dizzying amount of particle effects on screen at any one time, to the intricate level of detail found on each and every weapon, to the sheer scale of some of its environments. Verticality is also heavily emphasized, with a jump and mantle animation giving you the chance to scramble and leap off ledges, much like in 2016's Doom reboot. All of this leads to Boltgun managing to capture a tangible sense of nostalgia while also tapping into the fluidity and pacing of a contemporary shooter. It's a familiar but potent mix, resulting in a viscerally satisfying game that's relatively easy to pick up and play.
The story is suitably paltry, however, providing just enough setup to explain why you're on a distant planet mowing down anything that breathes in the name of the Inquisition. As battle-hardened Space Marine Malum Caedo, you're dispatched to the Adeptus Mechanicus Forge World of Graia to investigate some concerning goings-on. As it turns out, the Ad Mech were running experiments that have predictably gone awry and spawned a Chaos invasion. After a botched landing leaves you as the lone survivor, you're put to work cleansing the forces of Chaos armed with an ever-expanding supply of powerful weaponry.
Boltgun's assortment of 41st-millennium armaments is at the heart of everything great about its fast-paced and sanguinary action. There's no denying that the titular Bolter is the star of the show, but every other weapon proves its worth, making this one of the more appealing arsenals in the genre. If you're not a Warhammer fan, having no prior knowledge isn't a barrier to entry in any way, but those who are will appreciate the attention to detail as each weapon looks and functions as it should. The Plasma Gun, for instance, is extremely deadly but volatile. It might deal massive damage, but it's also prone to overheating, at which point it can malfunction and hurt you, too. The Meltagun, on the other hand, unleashes an energetic beam of heat that can dissolve armor in a heartbeat, proving especially useful against tenacious enemies like the imposing Chaos Terminators. Even the Chainsword, which is always available as a melee option, can cut through the toughest foes given enough time.
Part of what makes each of these murderous tools so fun to use is the tremendous audio and visual feedback across the board. Guns feel hefty and consume the soundscape with a cacophony of whirring thermal energy, thunderous bedlam, and the clink of spent casings crashing against the ground. Basic enemies go down in one or two shots and almost everything explodes on death, leaving behind buckets of blood and heretical failure.
Ammunition for the more powerful weapons in your arsenal is relatively scarce, however, which ensures that the Boltgun remains a constant companion throughout your journey. The Bolter was my go-to when dealing with cannon-fodder enemy types such as human Cultists and swarms of plague-spewing Nurglings, but it's capable of taking down Chaos Space Marines in a pinch. Hidden secrets scattered throughout each level also provide temporary upgrades that can boost its damage output, such as the devastatingly explosive Kraken ammo. Despite this, I never felt like I had to "save" certain weapons to the point where I wouldn't end up using them. Ammo may not be especially plentiful, but there's enough to encourage you to bust out the big guns when dealing with Boltgun's most resilient opponents. It just makes sure never to undermine the Bolter, which in turn strengthens the viability of your entire arsenal.
Juggling your firearms is vitally important when it comes to dealing with the variety of enemies you'll encounter as you trek across Graia. Even the weakest can pose a threat if they attack in numbers, so strafing, judicious use of the sprint button, and perpetual motion are the keys to survival. Boltgun's levels are fairly linear for the most part, but many of its environments are quite expansive. In between all of the compact corridor shooting, you'll also uncover these vast combat arenas where you're tasked with purging every enemy before moving on. Space Marines are basically walking tanks, yet you're still surprisingly nimble, able to fluidly traverse the battlefield while maintaining a palpable sense of weight as your colossal footsteps reverberate around the room and shake the screen. It's here where you're assaulted on all sides by all manner of Cultists and Chaos Daemons, from Plague Toads, which leap around the battlefield spitting green acid at you, to the Pink Horrors that split into Blue Horrors upon death. Boltgun is often at its best in these moments, where the exhilaration of barely surviving by the skin of your teeth accentuates its thrilling action.
Unfortunately, these combat arenas also shine a spotlight on an issue id Software solved back in 2016's Doom. In true boomer shooter fashion, the health bar in Boltgun doesn't replenish over time. Instead, each level is filled with both health and armor pick-ups for you to grab when the need arises. This is par for the course, but being forced to run around, searching for healing items and ammo can take you out of the action for prolonged periods of time. Doom's Glory Kills and Chainsaw rectified this issue, and I can understand why Auroch Digital opted not to replicate a feature wholesale, but the old-school alternative is inherently archaic and detracts from the experience. Some of the levels are also quite samey, making it easy to get turned around because so many corridors look almost identical. The fact that there's no map only intensifies this issue.
Despite these faults, Warhammer 40,000: Boltgun is an extremely fun game with a contagious reverence for classic '90s shooters and the Warhammer universe at large. Its entire arsenal of flesh-combusting weapons is a joy to use, and its simple gameplay loop is kept fresh by a steady supply of new armaments and enemy types to squash under the almighty boot of the Imperium. It's not trying to revolutionize the genre and that's perfectly fine; it's the type of game to hire avid Warhammer fan Rahul Kohli (Gears of War 5, Midnight Mass) to voice its protagonist, only to make him exceptionally easy to miss unless you stumble upon the "Taunt" button. There aren't any gameplay advantages to hitting this button, but you do get to hear Kohli relish in delivering some Space Marine-appropriate lines as he nails the angry, regal tone. That's almost worth the price of admission alone.
In The Last Case of Benedict Fox, you play as the titular detective, who breaks into a strange manor in order to investigate a ritual he wants to perform. The answers he seeks, unfortunately, reside in the minds of a young couple who are now dead. Thankfully, Benedict is connected to an eldritch-like demon who grants him supernatural powers, including the ability to go into the minds of those freshly dead. Going into Limbo--as Benedict calls it--transports you into a space of sprawling mind palaces, each filled with the deceased's worst nightmares, insecurities, and traumas transformed into physical monsters. As you explore further and farther, you find the necessary memories to unlock new parts of the manor in the real world and piece together the steps to the ritual.
If all of that sounds a little convoluted and leaves you with many questions, that seems to be what The Last Case of Benedict Fox is going for, simply dropping you into a densely layered situation without the necessary build-up to fully grasp what's going on. The game holds its cards too close to the chest, unfortunately--going so far as to hide for the entire first half of the game what exactly the ritual that Benedict is researching even does and why he's looking for it. The plot swings way too far past intriguing and mysterious into confusing territory for the first half of its runtime. This makes for a deeply unwelcoming opening, which sets up a story and character motivations that are difficult to parse, with names, dates, lore, and jargon quickly thrown at you with little in the way of explanation. Once you manage to get a ways into the game, The Last Case of Benedict Fox graciously begins answering a few of the questions it poses, giving you more of a reason for wanting to explore its riveting Lovecraftian-inspired world, but it still just takes way too long to get there.
Which is a shame because, as it turns out, The Last Case of Benedict Fox happens to be built upon a fascinating world and deep lore that's begging to be uncovered, a winning recipe for a metroidvania game given the genre's traditional focus on exploration. Once you're incentivized to go out and map the hallways of people's dying psyches there are a lot of cool supernatural threads to pull on, all styled in a world that feels somehow disturbingly colorful for how heavy its narrative gets. Each part of Limbo is more horrifyingly beautiful than the last. I especially enjoyed how the minds of the people you're jumping into inform each level's unique layout and environmental puzzles. One moment may find you running through a maze composed within the logic of a scientist, for example, the rhythmic clockwork of his dying mind transforming the space with a regular rhythm. And then the next, you're diving into the mind of a woman who died at the end of her emotional rope, with pools of poison, ichor-lined walls, and a frigid underbelly all that remains of her emotionally damaged core.
Exploring these spaces is key to solving The Last Case of Benedict Fox's many environmental puzzles, which is the primary means of progression in the game. Early on, you discover that Benedict needs to find three pages, each detailing a step in the ritual needed to separate him from his companion. The pages are scattered about the manor, requiring a bit of sleuthing on your part, since whoever designed Resident Evil 2's Raccoon City Police Station clearly was also the architect of this manor--it is filled with an assortment of locks, each hiding secrets that allow you to further explore the manor or uncover more of the story.
The keys you need lie in the memories of those who once lived in the manor, meaning you're regularly diving into the dying minds of those who once lived there to uncover their secrets. Is there a paper with notes on it that you need, but it's burned beyond recognition in the real world? Go into the mind of the person who saw it last, and explore the part of his brain that represents his suppressed guilt and anger of that moment. Does a locked door require three oddly specific keys to open? Better dive into the mind of the dead body nearby to see if he has a recollection of that key that you can bring back with you into the real world.
A wider variety of puzzles exist within the Limbo worlds, too. I've found doors that required me to play a chess match in a certain way to get through them, and combination locks where I had to take a picture of the clues with my phone in order to refer back to them while inputting the answer. The Last Case of Benedict Fox is no pushover when it comes to flexing your brain, but it never quite reaches a degree of difficulty so off-putting that the brain twisters ever get irritating.
In true metroidvania fashion, there are also locks tied to abilities. These come in two forms. There are some obstacles in the world--numeric locks and walls of miasma--that can only be surpassed by unlocking upgrades to Benedict's equipment, requiring you to find specific items in Limbo. Additionally, there are locks in Limbo--like breakable floors and demon-coated doorways--that only your demon companion can overcome, requiring you to get tattoos made from the inky blood carved out from enemies. With these parallel paths, you're regularly rewarded, whether it's for finding new areas and discovering equipment upgrades or overcoming enemies and collecting enough ink for a new tattoo. That said, for as enjoyable as it is to explore Limbo and uncover the secrets hidden away in people's minds, combat falls short.
The Last Case of Benedict Fox is routinely dragged down by clunky and unrewarding combat mechanics. Benedict is designed as a careful fighter--his repertoire in combat consists of a simple counter, slow melee strikes, a flintlock-like flare gun, and a meanderingly slow healing mechanic. These mechanics don't match the pace of the enemies that Benedict is going up against, as most foes are quite nimble and hit hard and fast, meaning you'll often find yourself quickly overwhelmed when attacked by more than one enemy. It makes for a frustrating loop in which you're routinely punished for Benedict not being able to react to an enemy's attacks anywhere near fast enough and have to just keep repeatedly banging your head against the same challenge until you're lucky enough to get past it.
The platforming gauntlets are also quite the momentum-killers. At certain points in the game, Benedict will be locked into a chase where failing to escape his pursuer is instant death, sending you back to the start of the run. It doesn't matter if you died right at the start or near the end; failing to perfectly execute every jump during these sequences sends you back to square one--in some cases, that's nearly a minute of tense platforming. These sequences wouldn't be too irritating in an actual platformer, but The Last Case of Benedict falters in how poorly its jump mechanic fits platforming challenges.
And that's a shame, because here's the thing: I actually like how platforming works in the game--Benedict's demon companion uses its shadowy tentacles to latch onto nearby platforms and pull Benedict forward with a slow momentum. It's visually creepy and narratively cohesive, explaining how an otherwise normal man can double jump. But the floaty and imprecise nature of these jumps does not match the necessary speed and precision for a platforming chase sequence--much like the combat mechanics, there's an irritating disconnect between what the mechanics are and what the game is tasking you to do.
In response to its shortcomings, The Last Case of Benedict Fox has several excellent approachability settings, allowing you to customize the degree of difficulty for combat, puzzles, and exploration. You can make combat much harder, where enemies take quite a few hits to go down, for example, or go the opposite and decrease the challenge so every enemy (even some bosses!) is defeated in one or two strikes. There's even an invincibility mode, which, when combined with the easier combat setting, essentially removes combat from the game entirely. When I tried playing the game in this way--while also upping the challenge of puzzles and exploration so that I really had to scour every nook and cranny to find the clues I needed--I actually started enjoying the game a lot more.
On their own, these approachability systems are great for making The Last Case of Benedict Fox more welcoming to folks who are struggling with any one of the three core gameplay pillars, but they also clearly highlight that combat is holding this game back. When you only have to worry about the puzzles and exploration side of the game, it streamlines the entire experience and makes it easier to appreciate the attention to detail when it comes to the story and art direction.
The Last Case of Benedict Fox is one of my favorite flavors of metroidvania: the kind that keeps you guessing all the way up to the end on what's exactly going on. In the first half of the game, it goes too far in terms of setting up its mystery but the narrative payoff in the latter half partially makes up for it. This is the type of game where having a trusty notebook on hand is a good idea because the world design and cryptic story--though wonderful--aren't going to do much to guide you beyond hinting at a potential path forward. The combat and platforming don't quite match the game's intriguing story and wonderful Lovecraftian-inspired art direction, but the game does include ways for you to transform the experience of playing the game to make it more approachable.
The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is so much more than a sequel to Breath of the Wild. While this newest entry in the Zelda franchise is most recognizably similar to that 2017 game, it builds upon the foundation so thoroughly and transformationally that it feels like a revelation. This is The Legend of Zelda at its finest, borrowing the best pieces and qualities from across the franchise's history and creating something new that is emotionally resonant, captivating, and endlessly rewarding.
Breath of the Wild upended the Zelda formula by presenting a vast and lush open world to explore--a reenvisioning of the unguided experience of the original Legend of Zelda for the Nintendo Entertainment System. Tears of the Kingdom follows in its predecessor's footsteps with a similarly naturalistic setting, but the world has changed in subtle ways. Not everything is exactly the same or where you'd expect it to be, and the map is marked with myriad opportunities for exploration and curiosity. Once again, you'll hardly ever round a corner or crest a hill without finding something else to do or engage with. Hyrule feels serene even as it bustles with life and activity. The score is as majestic as it is unintrusive, accentuating a dire battle or narrow escape with an exciting up-tempo rendition of the theme and then easing off with softer tones to let you breathe in the atmosphere.
Much of the reason that the world feels so different this time is that your tools for engaging with it are so much more flexible. Like the Great Plateau in Breath of the Wild, you don't even enter the open world until you've found four key abilities in a tutorial area. Together, these abilities are the engine that drives Tears of the Kingdom--in the same way Breath of the Wild was centered on exploring wilderness using your slate of abilities, these new tools center Tears of the Kingdom around building and experimenting to overcome obstacles in inventive ways. It's a beautifully implemented evolution of what made Breath of the Wild so special. While it's more ambitious than Breath of the Wild in how much you can express your own creativity, it also manages to do this without buckling under its own weight.
The two most important abilities are Ultrahand and Fuse, since they serve as the cornerstones of exploration and combat, respectively. Ultrahand lets you piece together just about anything you find, including a vast array of new building materials and ancient Zonai machine parts. Fuse lets you modify your melee weapons, arrows, and shields by attaching things to them in a way that’s thematically similar to Ultrahand. The two act as halves of the same whole, encouraging you to constantly try new versions of a mind-boggling array of combinations, simply to see what happens. Attaching Zonai fan parts to a raft can help it cross a river or make it airborne, depending on how you arrange them. A bomb on an arrow makes for an explosive shot, of course, while one on a shield will be a messy surprise when an enemy tries to hit you, or give you the ability to launch far into the air with a shield-surf.
What struck me is how Fuse recontextualizes weapon degradation, which proved divisive in Breath of the Wild. While Fusing items does grant them extra durability to slightly assuage concerns, there's a deeper, more philosophical layer at play with how these new systems interact. Durability in Breath of the Wild was about scarcity and resource management. In Tears of the Kingdom, it feels more about pushing you to try new combinations. When every tree branch or rusty sword you find is a potential test tube for some new experiment, you’re not as precious about each and every object you find. Everything is a toy, and Tears of the Kingdom wants you to play with your toys, smash them together, throw them around, and find joy in the unexpected results.
The other two abilities granted in the tutorial area, Recall and Ascend, are more limited in scope but still quite important. Recall--which rewinds objects back to a previous state--has both combat and exploration applications, letting you easily toss a bomb back at some hapless Moblin or cleverly create yourself a moving platform to cross a chasm. Ascend lets you swim upwards through solid rock, easily finding your way into hidden rooms and quickly reaching spaces that would have taken longer (or been impossible) to manually climb.
One more key ability is optional--and entirely missable--but grows more important as you build an array of machine parts and take on tougher obstacles. Autobuild, an extension of the Ultrahand ability, simply stitches together the requisite parts for a design you either have saved in your recent history, or one that you've marked as a favorite to save permanently. Rather than reconstructing a hot air balloon or small airplane every time you need one, you can simply construct it using parts that are laying around, and fill in any gaps using the cache of Zonai parts sitting in your inventory.
All of these building tools and the Ascend ability effectively deemphasize your stamina meter for climbing, but the construction tools make the game so vertically oriented that it makes traversal flow naturally. That's also due to the Skyview Towers, which serve not just as waypoints for filling out the map, but as cannons to launch you far into the sky. As you ascend, you'll reach another layer of the map, where the Sky Islands reside, with their own secrets to uncover. The sequence in which Link launches into the air is seamless. Rocketing into the sky and then falling back to earth feels thrilling every time, and you can use the vantage point as you descend to float towards a goal or look around for undiscovered landmarks.
To my shock, ascending to the sky and then falling back to earth ran smoothly. There has been plenty of concern about the aging Switch hardware being adequate to run Tears of the Kingdom well, and for my part, I barely ever saw a hitch while playing mostly in handheld mode. In fact, the rare instance in which I did notice a slight frame rate dip in both handheld and docked modes wasn't during the big grandiose moments like launching Link into the sky, but rather, a smaller moment like exploring the bustling Kakariko Village during a rainstorm. Even then, the performance dips were minor and temporary. In docked mode, it's easier to spot a loss of some detail on faraway objects when flying high, but the painterly style obscures it well. Leave it to Nintendo to squeeze more technical prowess out of its own systems than seemed possible, this late into its lifespan. (Monolith Soft, which assisted in development, has similarly accomplished incredible feats with Switch hardware, most recently with Xenoblade Chronicles 3.)
The map is again littered with landmarks, especially Shrines, which serve double duty as fast-travel points alongside the Skyview Towers. The Shrines are key to upgrading your health and stamina, and as before, these are quick, snack-sized puzzle and combat rooms. I tended to activate them as fast-travel points and then go back to do a string of them in a row. A new, separate consumable can also be used to upgrade your portable battery pack so that your Zonai machines can run that much longer. And in the massive underground area, you can light your own way with Brightbloom seeds and activate special bioluminescent plants that act as their own fast-travel points. This separation between three layers of the open world, each with its own vastly different ambiance, makes exploration truly feel like adventuring in a vast, uncharted world.
These tools, and the sprawling world they inhabit, give Tears of the Kingdom a particular flow that feels unique to the Zelda franchise. You aren't simply solving puzzles or fighting battles--you're engineering solutions. You might encounter a gap you can't cross, a fight you can't win, or a puzzle you can't solve. But you know you have the tools, and you know where you can find the materials, and all that's left is to think it through, gather what you need, and put your plan into action. If that plan fails--and sometimes it will--you tweak your design or your plan and you try again. Despite the incredible freedom, it's not overwhelming. While creative solutions are encouraged and might make some challenges much easier, you can certainly make it through the story using simpler designs. It rewards you for flexing your creative muscles, but it meets you where you are.
The four major quadrants of the map correspond to the four major dungeons, which this time are more traditional than Breath of the Wild's Divine Beasts. For one thing, in a knowing nod, these ones are actually called Temples, each named after an element like Wind or Fire. They are structurally similar--each revolving around a series of locks in one way or another--but they are wildly different in style and tone. The Thunder Temple segues from an Indiana Jones homage to an extremely traditional Zelda dungeon complete with mirror puzzles, for example. The Wind Temple, meanwhile, takes place in a floating airship with a dense overlapping structure. There are moments in each Temple that feel audacious, like nothing you've seen in a Zelda game before, all intermingled with style and presentation that will please those who, like me, missed the classic-feeling Zelda dungeons in Breath of the Wild.
You don't receive a special item in each dungeon that corresponds to its puzzle structure, however. There are no Iron Boots or Boomerangs to be found. Instead, each dungeon features a companion specific to one of the diverse races in Zelda lore, like the Goron or Zora. Your companion effectively grants you their own power on demand for puzzle-solving and combat, making it feel like you've found a special item while also imbuing it with character. Each of the four major characters is lovable in their own way, with fantastic character design that makes them stand out from their brethren. Combat is mostly deemphasized in the Temples, letting you focus squarely on exploration and puzzle-solving for most of their duration.
That isn't the case for the bosses, though, which are some of the toughest I've seen in any Zelda game. These ferocious beasts are there to put your skills and companion abilities to the test, and more than once I had to leave a dungeon entirely to better prepare. I was glad to see that Tears of the Kingdom allows for that, and even counts on it, letting you fast-travel out of a dungeon to spend time elsewhere and then easily pick a battle back up when you fast-travel back to the closest waypoint. Your companions don't come with you when you leave, but once you've conquered a dungeon, you'll have their ability to call on from then on.
The one drawback of this open structure is that your special abilities can't be counted on to stack on each other. Older Zelda games would eventually ramp up the puzzle difficulty with the wide array of tools at your disposal, because the linear order meant that by the time you reached the sixth dungeon, the game could count on you to have the items from the fourth and fifth dungeons. Since Tears of the Kingdom lets you play dungeons in any order, the puzzles can only be structured around one key ability at a time. This is the trade-off for the open structure, and it's a fine-enough compromise since the game gets plenty of mileage out of its dungeon puzzles regardless.
Exploring these dungeons and gathering these allies is all tied back to the central story. Tears of the Kingdom's story is my favorite aspect of the game, and it is absolutely my favorite Zelda story in years. It begins as Link and Zelda investigate a blight, named the Gloom, that seems to be emanating from underneath Hyrule Castle. In an uncharacteristically creepy touch, the two find a desiccated corpse--immediately recognizable to Zelda fans as Ganondorf--being held down by a glowing, disembodied arm. Ganondorf snaps back to life, wounds Link, and breaks the Master Sword. In the ensuing chaos, Zelda falls into inky blackness, and when Link awakens, she's nowhere to be found. In place of his right arm is the one that was found holding Ganondorf.
The story goes on to explain that, ages ago, the first King of Hyrule united the Sages--representatives of each race of Hyrule--against the army of the Demon King, Ganondorf. Now, with your new arm, you have the power to reunite the Sages and tap their powers, leading to your cross-country trek to find those with their bloodlines who can fulfill the pacts their ancestors made a millenia ago. Each of these new Sages grapples with the responsibility in their own way, which makes each temple its own small character story with their own individual payoffs. The world of Tears of the Kingdom is one in which diversity is a strength, built on the backs of individuals brave enough to work for a collective good. There's a palpable sense of weight as each of them accept their mantle, some more hesitantly than others. Some are confident leaders who feel beholden by attachments, while others feel guilt-ridden by mistakes or tired of being underestimated. They're some of the strongest tertiary characters in Zelda history--imminently lovable and humane people who each drive home the themes of collective responsibility and the weight of heroism in different ways.
But more than the Sages or even Link, this story truly belongs to Zelda. Your main quest, both in terms of the story and literally in your quest log, is to find Zelda. There's a throughline of mystery to the whole affair, with scattered reports of Zelda sightings across the kingdom. Discovering where she's gone is told in a non-sequential manner, with the mystery slowly unraveling toward an incredible, stirring revelation. There is a specific moment in this story that will go down as one of the most memorable in all of Zelda canon.
When I think of the Legend of Zelda series, I've always thought about transcendent, mythic moments: pulling the Master Sword from the pedestal in A Link to the Past, waking the Wind Fish in Link's Awakening, the three major characters representing aspects of the Triforce in Ocarina of Time. Tears of the Kingdom has a moment that matches each of those, and I felt the scope and power of it so strongly that I shed my own tears. As much as I loved each of those pieces in Zelda's past, I'm not sure if it's ever evoked that level of emotion from me before.
And then, of course, there is the story you write yourself through gameplay--when you built a clever machine to cross a chasm, explored a dark cavern with only your wits and a handful of arrows, raced through a thunderstorm on horseback to find shelter. Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is a canvas for your own creativity, a book to write your own stories, a world to create your own legends. It gives you back as much as you put into it, and beckons you to soar, burrow, engineer, solve, adventure, and explore.
Arkane doesn't put ladders in its games. The team says as much with a succinctly stated poster in one of the rooms in its Austin location: "F**k ladders," it reads. The team has said ladders feel limiting by putting players in a "mode" where they can't use their weapons or abilities, and they often even fall to their deaths anyway--Arkane hates ladders. And yet, there are ladders early and often in Redfall. This surprise would become emblematic of my time in the vampire-infested Massachusetts town. Redfall is Arkane making compromises to its own design philosophies to serve a genre it may have been better off avoiding.
Redfall is a four-player co-op loot-shooter that pits players against vampires and the cultists who follow them. The story premise is classic Arkane stuff, but in practice, it plays like a tug-of-war that its usually inventive team could not win. Most aspects of what the team is known for--unrivaled world design, intricate immersive sim elements, improvisational combat--are rarely found here. In their place are run-and-gun fights with unresponsive AI enemies amid a host of bugs that are so prevalent, it genuinely feels dejecting to see the game launch in this state. Wherever things have gone wrong in Redfall, and there are several places, it feels like the result of a team with a foot in disjointed worlds: what it's known for and what it's tasked with doing.
The game's two maps are bigger than anything Arkane has done before, from either its team in Texas or France, but the team struggles to fill that space with the same intricacies that made games like Dishonored and Deathloop both Game of the Year winners and Prey a cult classic. Too often, you and up to three others playing in co-op will move across barren beaches or through wooded areas with little more than some sheds or campsites to rummage through. The game's second map, which you'll unlock halfway through the campaign, is noticeably better because it comes closer to the team's past efforts, with more interesting landmarks and more verticality built into its neighborhoods, but it still doesn't quite get there.
Traveling from A to B in creative ways has always been Arkane's signature. And in Redfall, there are opportunities to get crafty when entering some buildings, like by going through the roof, by picking a lock on a door, or by climbing through a window. But moments like these are too spread apart, and in the middle you'll often find blander elements such as small gangs of enemies waiting to be dispatched with no more consideration than choosing which gun to use. In Redfall, you can only really speak one language: killing enemies. There's no reward for creatively completing missions and you're eventually funneled into an all-out firefight in every encounter, even when you take the time to play smarter, discouraging you from trying to solve any problem in a more creative way than just shooting everyone.
The stealth mechanics are also underdeveloped. Sneaking up behind an enemy to deliver a knockout blow has no animation of its own. You just whack them the same way you shatter a window, and this method unpredictably leads to some enemies being defeated while others survive the blow and kick off normal combat.
Underbosses serve as neighborhood terrorizers whom you must draw out after completing local missions, but in virtually every case, they can be one- or two-shotted on normal difficulty with the game's Stake Launcher, a weapon that is too powerful for the game's own good. Stakes should kill vampires quickly, of course, but because they do, the ubiquity of Stake Launchers nullifies many of the game's encounters. This is a balancing issue that is common in Redfall. Even the game's intended tougher parts, like vampire nests and overpowered enemies called Rooks--who spawn every so often when you've caused too much mayhem--can be overcome pretty breezily in most cases. And when that wasn't the case, often the opposite was true--suddenly overwhelming enemy forces would result in instant death. The game rarely strikes the right balance.
Redfall is the latest in a long line of games to develop an obsession with loot, but the game struggles to nail even the basic, well-established concept of how that loot should be doled out. In most other loot-heavy games, tiered loot drops on a reliable upward trajectory--early loot grants you common or slightly uncommon weapons, and as you progress, you'll see the loot getting gradually better and rarer. In Redfall, the weapons tend to get stronger, but their rarities follow no pattern. The five color-coded rarities can each drop at any point in the campaign. I was finding purples and golds in the first hour, just as I was finding grays and greens in the final few missions.
As such, the loot aspect of Redfall feels faulty and unnecessary. In one perplexing moment during one of the first side missions, a loot drop simultaneously granted me a gray sniper, a green sniper, a blue sniper, and a purple sniper. There are some cool guns to be found, like a UV Beam that turns vampires to stone so you can then blast them to pebbles, but the best guns are notable for their basic functions, not because of RNG-defined perks that have been hamfisted into yet another game. It's easy to see a version of Redfall that has smaller but deeper maps without the loot system. Perhaps that would be too much like the team's other games, which makes Redfall stand out for being different in Arkane’s catalog. But in all the ways it's different, it's worse.
Its story, which is actually full of interesting lore, similarly struggles to leave its mark because of the genre's all-too-common use of stiff quest-givers dishing out instructions as they stand in the same place for the whole game. Arkane's worlds have always been rich with character and environmental storytelling, but Redfall needs to serve its loot-shooter master, so cardboard-like NPCs feign narrative intrigue, leaving the plot to feel like window dressing. What could've been a fun story that basically equates venture capitalists to bloodsuckers is instead nullified by forgettable delivery at nearly every turn.
The silver lining is faint, but Redfall does have a few things going for it. For one, its foursome of vampire-slaying heroes are all fun to inhabit, not just because of their unique abilities, but their personalities too. The more you complete missions with a particular group of co-op partners, the more your characters will communicate as they build trust. This helps color in their identities which can be difficult in a game--and genre--that is so often focused on filling space and time with things to do to the point of drowning out its heroes.
They also play off each other well due to their unique skills. It feels like the studio took its usual protagonist concept and divided it into quarters. This can sometimes mean solo players feel like they're incomplete, existing as only a fraction of Prey's Morgan Yu or Dishonored's Corvo or Emily, but when played in co-op, team synergy shines. Using one hero's ability to teleport over a gap where then another lifts up the team using her elevator-like maneuver to get onto a roof so that a third teammate can drop in through the skylight and cloak past enemies to unlock the front door and let them all in to cause chaos is the sort of player-driven moment that I thought this game would have a lot of. It doesn't have them often enough, but when they occur, the game is at its best.
While the world doesn't feel like the player's canvas in ways you might expect, it is nonetheless a fun place to explore in one very particular way. It leans into its Massachusetts setting in a manner that suggests to me, a native of the state, that someone on the team really likes it there. Moving down cobblestone pathways lined with pumpkins to collect junk loot like legally distinct chainstore donuts and candles that smell of steamed lobster, all while NPCs with thick Boston accents berate each other over the airwaves like they're talking about the Sox, was an authentic touch of home, though I understand few players will get the same enjoyment out of that aspect.
Ultimately, Redfall is a game that should not have been released yet. Its litany of bugs hampers the gameplay loop of exploring its world with friends, and that loop itself feels compromised by elements that are poorly executed and ill-suited to the team implementing them. I can't pretend to know whether Arkane chose to make a loot-shooter or was assigned to make a loot-shooter, but I can tell you what it feels like: one of the best game studios in the world suddenly made toothless.
Survivor takes place about five years after the events of Fallen Order, with the Mantis crew having gone their separate ways to pursue different goals in a galaxy increasingly dominated by the Galactic Empire. After a daring escape from Imperial authorities, protagonist Cal finds himself on the planet Koboh, where he discovers a High Republic Jedi protocol droid who carries a clue to reaching Tanalorr, a supposedly unreachable mythical planet. Seeing a potential home that's free of the Empire's influence, Cal sets about reassembling the Mantis crew for another galactic scavenger hunt, but his efforts are waylaid by a former High Republic Jedi who--having originally discovered Tanalorr decades prior and bid his time until the right moment--wants Tanalorr for his own purposes.
The High Republic is a fascinating time period for Survivor to connect its story to given what we know has transpired between that era and the events of post-Revenge of the Sith. The comics describe The High Republic as the golden age of the Jedi. And that may be the case, but we also know this time period will culminate in the Jedi Order led by Master Yoda, who preached to a young Anakin Skywalker that "fear is the path to the Dark Side." Not anger. Not grief. Not any of the other emotions a Jedi is supposed to unhealthily suppress. The events of the High Republic teach the Jedi that fear is the path to evil--the other emotions are just stepping stones along it.
Survivor runs with that idea, exploring the concept of fear and what it means for someone like Cal, a survivor of both a war and a genocidal attack on his people, to live with the ever-present shadow of fear. As a survivor of the Jedi Order, Cal fears failing to live up to its ideals, compelling him to go to unhealthy extremes in his fight against the Empire. All the while, he pushes down the growing sentiment he feels for those he loves in order to avoid painful rejection.
While the theme of fear and how it can change you is central to Cal's journey, Survivor's main antagonists also benefit from this focus, transforming into foils for Cal to reflect on his actions. On their own, the two big bads lack the level of nuanced characterization I want from a villain--in the end, both boil down to being evil because they're selfish, albeit in different ways. It's not exactly compelling when compared to Fallen Order's terrifying and yet understandably tragic Second Sister. But as foils for Cal, Survivor's villains catalyze his growth. First, forcing him to come to terms with how his reckless pursuit of destroying the Empire and reaching Tanalorr could culminate in his own fall to the Dark Side if he's not careful. And second, recognizing the importance of being a new type of Jedi for a changed galaxy.
We've seen variations of these transformations in Jedi before--Luke Skywalker and Ahsoka Tano being the two major examples in the current canon. But in Cal's journey, Respawn delves even deeper into what it means for a Jedi grappling with the doubts and insecurities that everyday people in the Star Wars universe navigate all the time. Cal did not grow up as a normal kid like Luke nor did he have a non-traditional mentor as a padawan like Ahsoka. As a result, his attempts to wrestle with his fears of obsession and commitment are more tenuous and susceptible to outside influence than the Jedi we've seen safely balance their internal light and darkness before.
As a result, Cal's conflict with Survivor's villains sees him regularly teetering toward the Dark Side more than the typical Star Wars protagonist (save for Anakin Skywalker, obviously), leaving you guessing up until the final fight of the game as to where Cal's moral compass is eventually going to align. That seesaw ride is so poignant because Survivor's story gives Cal a lot to care about and isn't afraid to see him lose it during crucial narrative beats. The narrative incentive of Survivor isn't a desire to see the good guys win, it's to explore just how much the good guys are willing to throw away on their path to victory.
While these new personal challenges require a great deal of growth from Cal to grapple with, the more immediate physical challenges rely on a familiar set of skills and abilities. Survivor smartly avoids the pitfall of depowering its protagonist, meaning Cal starts off with the lightsaber and traversal abilities he earned during Fallen Order. Against the weaker foes of the early game, Cal already feels suitably dominant, as a seasoned Jedi that has been fighting for survival should be. You are empowered to slice through simple Storm Troopers and perform Force-propelled parkour across bottomless pits with ease. These skills don't mean Cal is all-powerful, though, and after an exciting opening chapter, Survivor puts you in your place with an assortment of challenging new enemy types. This encourages you to spend your points wisely in Survivor's branching skill tree to unlock new powers.
Much like Fallen Order, Survivor's combat primarily relies on Cal's lightsaber, slicing through an enemy's guard and parrying their strikes until their stamina gives out so you can land some solid hits. It's much easier to discern incoming attacks from fakeouts or preemptive wind-ups in Survivor compared to Fallen Order, and Cal's moves feel sharper and quicker this time around, too. This affords you more control in the heat of battle and helps the game's mostly fast-paced fights feel more surmountable. When an enemy gets a hit in, it now feels more like your mistake and not a stroke of bad luck where the glow of Cal's lightsaber and particle effects of an enemy's weapon muddied the visual language of the parry mechanic.
Cal has his own stamina meter to worry about, so combat is as much about control and careful timing as it is about being strategically aggressive. Each battle plays out as a cerebral exercise; the experience evolves with an exciting flow as you get the hang of it, all of which is captured with incredible audio detail. Each carefully deflected blaster bolt resounds with that distinctive Star Wars ping; the hum of Cal's lightsaber and the compressed flux of Force energy help sell the exhilarating thrill of playing as a Jedi Knight.
Though BD-1 is still your regular companion who keeps you healed up and unlocks doors, Cal is joined by other characters during certain parts of the story too. Either the blaster-toting Bode or magick-wielding Merrin joins Cal in certain story missions to help him deal with tougher fights. Neither one adds anything especially noteworthy to the experience of combat but they are a welcome resource for crowd control in the tough-as-nails fights in the latter half of the game, and their tag-team takedowns with Cal are all visual delights.
To go along with the idea that he's now older and more skilled, Cal also gets two new lightsaber stances in Survivor: Blaster and Crossguard. The former offers Cal a ranged fighting style while the latter deals in slow but heavy strikes. Both have their advantages, but Blaster feels a lot better in motion, matching the other three styles in sense of speed. Cal feels strongest when he's weaving through a crowd of enemies, deflecting blaster bolts and quickly striking his opponent in the moments their guard falters, and that's just trickier to do with the slower Crossguard style.
Survivor limits you to only having two lightsaber stances equipped at a time, forcing you to visit a meditation circle checkpoint in order to change them. At times, this restriction can feel frustrating as it funnels how you spend your skill points into the two styles you ultimately end up using most often, thereby discouraging experimentation. And since you only get one free skill respec per playthrough there's little opportunity to explore what could be interesting new abilities and approaches. You can respec after using the freebie, but you have to give up one of your skill points each time.
While I initially found this stifling, I came to appreciate how the limitation forced me to adapt to where I did allocate my skill points, especially when it came to lightsaber stances. Each style has its own unique strengths and weaknesses, so you can curate your own take on how Cal fights. You decide where Cal falls short--crowd control, for example, or maybe all-out attack power--and then get creative in how you overcome that weakness. I opted to focus on the jack-of-all-trades Single stance and range-focused Blaster stance, for instance, which made Cal a beast at dueling one-on-one. However, I suffered during combat encounters where the game threw a dozen enemies at a time at me. In those instances, I leaned on Force abilities to help Cal stall certain foes long enough so that I wouldn't be overwhelmed. It felt like I was able to make my own unique version of Cal who specialized in this fun hit-and-run fighting style that ultimately carried me through to the credits.
Platforming challenges and Force puzzles return in Survivor as well. Like combat, both feel better in Survivor in comparison to Fallen Order--Cal automatically latches onto climbable surfaces now, and a healthy assortment of unlockable shortcuts means that accidentally missing a jump midway through an action set piece likely won't set you back too far. Survivor has a helpful hint system, too. More importantly, it respects your intelligence, only popping up if you leave the game idling while you're in the midst of a puzzle or you seem stuck. And even then, like Fallen Order, the game will ask if you'd like a hint first instead of just giving you a clue outright--that's a welcome level of restraint. It only offered to give me hints twice, both times during puzzles I just really couldn't figure out where to go or what to do. I don't know how Survivor knew which puzzles I wanted to take the time to figure out and which I desperately needed a clue for, but it did.
Survivor is at its best when every element--story, combat, and puzzle platforming--collides together with frenetic momentum in a way that is quintessentially Star Wars. This is most apparent in one of the game's most memorable highlights, a boss fight about midway through the game. The moment features segments of combat, platforming, and a major narrative payoff, in which Cal and Merrin work together to destroy an Imperial mining tool, combining Jedi abilities and Nightsister magick in a tense, cinematic encounter where your reactions are put to the test and Survivor's absolute banger of a soundtrack is swelling in your ears. It all culminates in the two allies taking down the machine with one of the coolest finishing moves I've seen in any Star Wars project. I actually stood up from my couch and cheered when it happened--you can tell that the team behind this game understands just how cool Star Wars can be.
The game makes time for quiet moments too, best seen in another of Survivor's major new features: a hub-like area that Cal can return to frequently. On Koboh, Cal can visit a cantina that fills with NPCs you've saved on your travels across the galaxy. Some of these characters act as vendors, selling Cal cosmetics or optional gameplay perks. Others help Cal liven up the cantina with music or a rooftop garden. The best of them act as quest-givers, pointing Cal towards the puzzle boxes that are High Republic vaults, bounty hunter mini-bosses, or more recruitable NPCs. Even if the characters themselves are, for the most part, narratively flat and boring to talk to, the perks they sell are rewarding and the missions they give you are often fun to complete. Caij Vanda is my favorite--she helps you find the Haxion Brood bounty hunters who are coming for Cal after he escaped their clutches in Fallen Order. These bounty hunters are oftentimes nimble fighters with jetpacks, blasters, deployable shields, and a wide array of gadgets ideally suited for overwhelming a Force user. Tracking them down makes for some fantastically tense duels, and the rewards Caij gives Cal for doing so are some of the best in the game.
On a final note, Survivor's technical performance is a stumbling block that must be noted. Playing on Xbox Series X, I experienced random crashes on a number of occasions, all annoyingly during cutscenes before the game had a chance to autosave. On one unlucky (and deeply frustrating) occasion, the game crashed during the cutscene following an especially challenging multiple-phase boss fight that had taken me many attempts to finally beat. Because of the crash, my progress was lost and I had to fight the boss half a dozen times again, earning a victory that felt so much more hollow than the first time I beat him. On PlayStation 5, a colleague reported some occasional stuttering, screen-tearing, and crashing too, and the PC version also has a variety of technical issues relating to in-game presentation, performance, and hardware optimization.
Survivor builds on Fallen Order in several meaningful ways, tightening up the combat mechanics, expanding the variety of lightsaber styles, alleviating the frustration of platforming and puzzles, and digging into less-mainstream Star Wars lore to tell a fantastic story about a Jedi trying to defeat a tyrannical evil at all costs and coming to the realization that you can't just fight for good--you have to fight for good in the right way. It's a superb Star Wars game that gets into the nitty-gritty of the struggle of what it takes for a Jedi Knight to begin the journey toward the rank of Master.
After a decade of resting solely on the laurels of its hit MOBA, Riot Games's decision to expand the lore of the ultra-popular League of Legends and its war chest of playable Champions will likely go down as one of the company's best moves. It's already given us Ruined King and the Netflix show Arcane, and it will soon give us Song of Nunu, Convergence, and the fighter Project L. The Mageseeker: A League Of Legends Story is the next expansion of LoL's lore, and it keeps Riot's momentum going with great combat, a beautiful world, and a riveting (though admittedly slow-starting) story.
The Mageseeker follows Sylas, a mage living in Demecia, a city that persecutes magic wielders through a special task force called Mageseekers. Sylas has the ability to absorb the magic of other mages, which makes him one of the most powerful magic users in the world. Before he discovered his power, Sylas was a Mageseeker himself, and during one of his assignments, he took pity on one of the mages he was seeking out. However, his innate ability kicked in, and his inability to control the magic he unknowingly absorbed from his quarry resulted in the deaths of multiple innocents. Despite his service to the Mageseekers, the discovery of his own power led to his imprisonment for 15 years. Now he is out and he is seeking revenge on those who sent him away.
The aesthetic choices in The Mageseeker are immediately impressive. The minimalist pixel art on display is a far cry from the state-of-the-art graphics modern consoles are capable of--heck, it's even a stark departure from the game's source material. However, the way developer Digital Sun tells a story through this art style, whether it's the backdrop of a scene or subtle movements in characters both playable and not, is remarkable.
There's a scene from the beginning of the game that encapsulates how effective this art style can be. Sylas has just escaped his confines and fought his way out of the city. He comes up on a clearing in the forest populated by other escapees who are trying to regroup. There's a lot of hustle and bustle amongst the NPCs, with heads bobbing and other small interactions creating noticeable movement. Sylas decides to address the group by climbing a nearby cliff and pounding the ground to get their attention, and when he does the group goes completely still.
It's not overt by any means, but the way the characters freeze in place, heads turned toward the chained mage standing above them, is a brilliant way to organically convey how intimidating Sylas is, which is a tall order considering he's a small, faceless figure on the screen. There are moments like this throughout the entire game--small animation choices that have major ripple effects throughout a scene--and every one of them is executed effectively. Digital Sun clearly knows how to maximize the potential of pixel art, and the evidence is abundant throughout The Mageseeker.
Stylish art is great and all, but it means nothing without a solid gameplay foundation to back it up, and The Mageseeker more than delivers in that regard as well. Sylas can either engage enemies with light and heavy attacks, or he can learn and wield a multitude of magic spells found throughout the adventure. You can outfit Sylas with any mixture of learned spells before starting a mission, and that experimentation makes each battle feel uniquely yours. Taking down a big boss with a spell loadout you've chosen makes each victory that much sweeter.
Along with collecting spells, there are multiple ways you can enhance Sylas's abilities to your liking. Resources found during missions can be sold to the blacksmith for stat boosts and additional slots for equipping magic. You can also recruit imprisoned mages, who then are assigned to a subgroup representing one of the game's six elements. As more recruits are found, your abilities with each element increase, which give you more power and more options while fighting enemies.
Should you realize you've made a wrong spell choice mid-mission, Sylas's unique absorption abilities lets him take a one-use spell from an enemy in the heat of battle. The absorbed spell can be used immediately and directed at any foe, which opens up a new potential strategy with each encounter.
For example, many skirmishes will see Sylas fight mages with specifically designated elements, like fire, water, or air. Knowing the weaknesses of each element means you can steal a spell from one enemy, then unleash it on another that is weak to the jacked spell. A common example is seeing fire and ice enemies paired up; use the steal mechanic to take a fire spell, and then launch it at an ice enemy while continuing to attack the fire foe you stole from. The fluidity of battle made each one seem interesting, and more importantly, it kept combat engaging.
Boss battles use this ever-flowing system as well, which results in some truly riveting battles against the big bads. Even bosses you encounter more than once would switch things up; the Giant Helm boss, for example, sometimes attacks with different elements than the previous bout, or the arena is set up differently and forces you to adjust. Every boss battle in the game kept me on my toes thanks to never remaining stagnant, as right when I would establish a pattern and get the timing down, a new obstacle would get in my way. This design gives every fight its own unique vibe, and it improves the whole experience in the process.
The flowing combat does a lot of heavy lifting for the level design, unfortunately, as stages begin to feel repetitive after a while. Every level in the game follows the same basic principle: Walk through a corridor, enter a larger room when I fight bad guys, and then enter another corridor. Sure, there are some extra paths leading to some hidden loot, but those diversions are fleeting. I wish there were more variety in the stages themselves, as the stellar moments of combat could not hide the uninspiring design.
The game's story starts off slowly, with a few chapters feeling like they could have been combined into one larger mission. The search for Kara, an elder mage who Sylas volunteers to rescue, spans multiple missions with continued breaks in between to head back to camp, which slows any momentum the story had. The campsite in the early going doesn't have a lot going for it, as most of the interesting inhabitants have to be found and recruited as the story progresses. The combo of continued story breaks and an uninteresting hub world in those early hours makes for a frustrating experience. Eventually the story builds into an incredible crescendo, and though it does take a while--the halfway point of the story is where things really kick into high gear--once you're there, it is very hard to put the game down. You still go back to camp after each mission, but even that is more interesting in the later stages of the game, thanks to the added NPCs offering more interactions and dialogue. Considering it took me about 11 hours to complete the game, it's not a massive time investment to get to the good story bits, but it is a shame the entire arc didn't reach the heights of the second half.
Riot Games's decision to widen the scope of its marquee franchise has yielded another success in The Mageseeker: A League Of Legends Story. The pixel art and soundtrack build a beautiful world, while the story--though slow to truly kick off--is riveting once it hits that turning point. There are some issues that hold the experience back, particularly its uneven level designs and the aforementioned slow start to the story. The fluid combat and incredible boss battles, however, make up for those shortcomings, and raise The Mageseeker up to be another effective expansion of the League of Legends lore.
Horizon Forbidden West was too big. I enjoyed the game overall, but my main takeaway from the experience was that it was entirely too much of a good thing. At a certain point the open world just felt overwhelming, and as a result the sprawling story began to lose its punch. Burning Shores, the first and only announced major expansion to Forbidden West, takes place in an entirely new area with a narrowed focus that hits the spot for Horizon fans, while introducing a handful of creative new mechanics and weaving in intriguing plot threads to pay off in the future.
Unlike the Frozen Wilds, the major expansion to the first game, Burning Shores is explicitly an epilogue to the main campaign, not a side story. It picks up exactly where the cliffhanger ending left off, and it heavily references a mount you only received near the very end of the campaign.
Spoilers for Horizon Forbidden West follow.
This placement after the campaign makes it a special treat for fans who have seen their way through, but anyone else will have their access gated behind finishing an already substantial game. As someone who finished the main game nearly a year ago, I was eager to have another journey into this world I loved. If it had come as soon as I finished the campaign, I probably would have felt too fatigued.
Guerrilla couldn't have predicted the death of actor Lance Reddick, who provided the voice and likeness of the cunning Sylens, so his appearance here is bittersweet. Sylens bookends the experience--both pointing Aloy in the direction of her new quest at the beginning, and stage-setting their next moves at the end. His character even gets an emotional payoff, albeit one that feels like it was written to set up further development in the next game. Still, hearing his inimitable line delivery one more time felt special, knowing that we've lost him.
Sylens informs Aloy that after the climactic battle against the Zeniths, one of them is still unaccounted for--a playboy industrialist named Walter Londra, who fled to the area formerly known as Los Angeles, but now simply called the Burning Shores, so Aloy goes to track her new target. Upon getting there, she discovers that he's essentially locked down the area with a deadly tower that prevents her flying mount from approaching, and in the process, stranded a set of Quen marines.
The setting in Burning Shores is gorgeous. This is post-apocalyptic Los Angeles, but despite the name Burning Shores, it frequently looks picturesque. The city has largely flooded, leaving pockets of islands and skyscrapers jutting out of the ocean. Higher ground like the Hollywood hills provide larger landmasses, but they all have an overgrown, nature-reclaimed look to them. It's unique and eerily beautiful, which describes many of Horizon's settings, but especially when applied to familiar territories like LA.
Aside from Londra, the major new character addition in Burning Shores is Seyka, a Quen marine who is somewhat of an outcast from her own military. Aloy sees some of herself in Seyka, as a determined woman who has been shunned by her tribe, and their developing friendship is a major throughline of the story. That especially comes into play as the two investigate Londra, with the sharp-eyed Seyka realizing there must be some reason he's so desperate to get off-planet, and Aloy increasingly straining to avoid telling her about Nemesis. Since all of Aloy's allies learned about the impending threat alongside her, this dynamic of information asymmetry is new and adds a wrinkle to their relationship.
Since Burning Shores follows after the main campaign, Guerrilla can count on you to have all of Aloy's tools at her disposal. This is nice, though I'll admit that after such a long absence I had forgotten about some of them. The game helpfully prompted me to use some less-common tools like the Pullcaster when needed, which I appreciated because otherwise I'd be staring at a wall, wondering what I'm supposed to do. There's also one significant new traversal tool--a machine that fires metal posts into a wall to create your own handholds for climbing--but this is limited to a single mission.
For the most part, Burning Shores is familiar--you fight machines, you traverse and climb, and then you do it again. There are new weapons and armor available from the Quen at their shops, which require trading a rare new resource. And as you progress through the campaign, you do get an entirely new weapon type, finally borrowing tech from the Zeniths, which feels significantly different and more powerful than any other weapons across both games. There are only a few new machines to hunt, including the tiny swarming Stingspawn and the massive toad-like Bilegut. The only other standard machine, the Waterwing, is extremely similar to the existing Sunwing. Still, if you're looking for more opportunity to hunt down resources and pick apart robots, this will keep you occupied.
Londra isn't unique as a villain. All of the Zeniths have essentially been narcissistic sociopaths who look down on the surviving tribal populations as lesser beings. Londra does take this mindset to uniquely horrible lengths, though, which provides ample motivation to take him down. The battle against him culminates in a setpiece so grandiose that the ending of Forbidden West feels humble by comparison. It's difficult and thrilling, and serves as a showpiece both graphically and mechanically.
With Londra resolved, Burning Shores turns to addressing the burgeoning relationship between Aloy and Seyka. At roughly 8-10 hours, I was skeptical that a new character introduced in the DLC would have enough time to develop emotional resonance, but it pays off believably and beautifully. This is mostly due to the performances, especially Ashly Burch as Aloy, whose expressions show a shocking amount of wordless emotions as she recognizes and sorts through her feelings. That said, it leaves on a sweet but slightly melancholy note.
That's because, as always, Aloy is looking to the future. Horizon: Burning Shores lays even more groundwork for the future of the franchise than Forbidden West, which had already signaled a clear direction for the next entry. It does this in a tight, engaging little package that reignited my love for the world and its characters without feeling burdened by it. While much of Burning Shores feels familiar, it's a sweet, condensed experience that captures what makes Horizon games great. After feeling more exhausted than excited at the end of Forbidden West, I'm glad for the reminder.
In the story campaign, you play as a denizen of the original Minecraft, who is plucked from your time and transported back to an older version of the Overworld that has long since passed into legend. This Overworld is overseen by Foresight, Action, and Knowledge--three deities who each add a dash of charm to an otherwise straightforward story of good versus evil. The simple villagers and animals are under attack by the Piglins, who are constructing portals across the land and building machines that make everything more like the Nether. In a final act of resistance, Foresight, Action, and Knowledge call on you and your building smarts to construct defenses, Golem soldiers, and war machines to slaughter the invading forces.
It's a fantastic concept that's made even better when the game dips into the more absurd elements--you can build giant redstone-powered cannons to lay waste to entire battalions of enemy Piglins one explosive shell at a time, for example, or construct ludicrously giant wooden bridges to safely transport troops over whole stretches of mountainous terrain. And having the chance to forge alliances with normally antagonistic Minecraft creatures, like the surprisingly honorable Skeletons and all-too-eager-to-die-for-the-cause Creepers, is also enjoyably silly.
As creative as all that is, though, Minecraft Legends simplifies its real-time strategy elements too much for that side of the game to be fun. Although this better highlights the action side of the game, where you battle your enemies alongside your troops, forcing you to split your time between directing your mindless soldiers and actually fighting, this can frequently feel like a distraction as opposed to a seamless and symbiotic back-and-forth. It's not an entirely novel concept, as other games have also moved away from the player being an omnipresent god who looks down upon the world like an all-knowing puppeteer--but it's not executed well here.
I like the idea of making the player an everyman general who moves throughout the world and fights alongside their troops. And, in practice, this does create moments of epic warfare. Since you can only direct troops who are following you and you have to walk up to units and give them the "Follow Me!" command to get them to fall in line behind you, the start of each battle typically begins with you waving your banner and trumpeting the war to come, and then rushing toward the enemy with dozens of troops at your side. It's a pretty cool feeling to gallop toward a sea of Piglins with a horde of Minecraft creatures at your back, only for both forces to crash into each other with murderous intent.
But that feeling of empowerment all comes crashing down once the actual battle is underway. Beyond getting your troops to follow you, the only other command you can give them is to charge. There's some nuance to this command--you can specifically choose to only send one of your melee fighters forward, for example--but there's no way to give orders more specific than that and better take advantage of each unit's unique strengths. The result is a hodgepodge of Minecraft creatures beating the snot out of each other in a jumbled mess, which you can join in on with your trusty sword. It's funny the first handful of times, but after that, it's just the tedium of repeating the cycle: summoning troops, sending them off to battle, creating more troops, and leading them to the grinder.
Frustratingly, you can't build on the land corrupted by the Nether, either, meaning most of every battle is spent running back and forth between the actual fray and greener pastures where you've set up the spawners for your troops. You can unlock a way to revert Nether-corrupted blocks back to their normal state, creating a way to build resources closer to the fight, but it's tedious and grinds the excitement of battle to a halt.
The game gently forces you to contend with that tedium, however. Your troops are brainless without you, and if they finish destroying an enemy structure or killing all the enemies in an area, they'll sit there and wait for you to direct them again. To keep the battle in your favor, you have to regularly get into the mix and tell your soldiers to go here, and now there, and now over here. Admittedly, this is how most real-time strategy games work, but the big difference with Minecraft Legends is that you aren't quickly jumping around the battlefield. Instead, you have to gallop on your horse to reach each group, slowing your ability to quickly command multiple units and making it difficult to put strategies into motion.
There's no way to give orders from a distance or call your soldiers to come to your side either. The most you can do is go up to one of the unit spawners you've created, where you have the option to recall all soldiers to you. And that's not something you regularly want to do since, again, your spawners are usually built a Nether field away from the fight at hand--calling all your soldiers to you would only remove them from the battle you're planning on leading them to.
In the moment-to-moment gameplay, leaving the battle to spawn more troops or command your redstone cannons can mean leaving your soldiers alone for a whole minute at a time--potentially a death sentence for those under your command. If you don't take steps to cleanse the Nether--especially around larger Piglins bases where the field of Nether that extends around them is massive--you won't be able to move your structures closer to the actual battle, and you'll end up spending most of the fight just running back-and-forth between the Piglins base and yours, barking out general orders to whoever is still alive every time you return to the front lines.
The reward for going through the effort of capturing an enemy base is worth it at least. Stopping the Piglins in their tracks is the only way to earn the necessary resources for expanding your inventory or unlocking the necessary tools to gather the resources to build new types of units and structures. You still run into the same problem of not being able to easily build them close to where you want them, but it's always nice to have new toys to play with.
When you're not waging war or enduring a siege, most of your time in Minecraft Legends' story campaign is spent exploring the world and collecting resources. The world is colorful and vibrant, with Minecraft's recognizable blocks stacked into gorgeous vistas, precarious canyons, murky swamps, and majestic forests. Unlike Minecraft, you don't have to mine individual blocks to gather their contents. Instead, you have a select amount of tiny helpers you can direct to collect all the available resources in a given space and automatically add them to your inventory. This is especially helpful in combat situations when you're running low on resources, as you can run out to a nearby forest or cliff face and command your helpers to gather wood and stone while you return to the fray. That said, a big part of Minecraft's slow but personal resource-collecting process is that it encourages you to really explore and understand the world you've fallen into--you come to know it after spending many hours in it. In comparison, I don't feel such a connection to the world of Minecraft Legends, as this truncated variation of the original game's resource-collecting system is far less personal and intimate. It's not a bad system by any means--it works as intended--but I couldn't shake the feeling that a crucial part of the Minecraft experience was lost.
A lot of the issues in the story campaign are mediated by the drop-in/drop-out co-op multiplayer where a combination of players can work together, splitting their attention between commanding soldiers and building structures. For the player wanting (or needing) to play Minecraft Legends solo, however, there's no easy way to avoid the shortcomings of the combat mechanics. Granted, these shortcomings are largely the result of Minecraft Legends simplifying the oftentimes systems-heavy gameplay loop of real-time strategy games to be more approachable and welcoming to players new to the genre. And that is great. Nonetheless, the campaign doesn't build beyond these simple beginnings to address its shortcomings--whether with more complex systems or something else--causing the gameplay loop of the story campaign at least to stagnate, especially if you're playing on your own.
As you wage war on the Piglins, they in turn enact their own machinations, slowly spreading their influence across the continent. Each army is overseen by a different general with their own brand of fighting, whether that's building especially high walls and numerous defenses or implementing a nimble fighting force that quickly moves across the land in pursuit of any perceived threat. As each army expands, they'll mount attacks on peaceful villages under your protection. Early warning systems will alert you to these attacks, allowing you to travel to an ally under siege and defend them, flipping the normal combat loop and putting you on the defensive.
Minecraft Legends' combat works way better under this format. Each village is small enough to keep you close to both the battle at hand and the structures you've built, but since Piglins can attack from any direction and typically do so in waves, it forces you to still be strategic. Do you use the last of the wood in your inventory to shore up that wall that's about to break in this wave, for instance, or is it better spent building more unit spawners in preparation for the next wave? It's also easier to take advantage of the game's ability to disassemble structures to recoup resources and build them somewhere else when you have a more comprehensive view of your surroundings and the state of the battle. If you defend friendly villages, their inhabitants will gather rare Minecraft blocks like iron and redstone as thanks, incentivizing you to keep checking up on them and stop any approaching Piglin armies.
You can find more of this tower defense format in Minecraft Legends' first Lost Legends, Portal Pile. Lost Legends are post-launch challenges that will release on a monthly basis. Portal Pile is a 10-wave tower defense mission where you have to defend a single village from a massive Piglin horde spilling out of three separate portals for as long as you can. This mission escalates Minecraft Legends' challenge significantly, encouraging you to make snap decisions and respond to threats with ingenuity instead of brute force. It's a lot of fun, especially if you've got a partner or two working with you to make the mission more surmountable. I'm sure it's possible to complete all 10 waves on your own but I haven't managed to do it--if this first Lost Legend is any indication, these post-launch challenges will be far more difficult and strategy-oriented than the gameplay loop of the story campaign. Only having one of these at launch means this option grows stale fairly quickly for audiences wanting something more than the easy-to-pick-up but shallow gameplay of the main story campaign, but it's far and away the most enjoyment I've found in Minecraft Legends and a hopeful indication of the game's future.
Additionally, Minecraft Legends has a Versus mode for players hoping to take the skills they've accumulated in the story campaign and use them on others in PvP. Versus sees six to eight players in teams of three or four face off. Each side must work together to defend their tower while attacking the opposing team's tower, taking any wandering Piglin into account as well. I like the set-up of Versus--especially since an opposing player can prove to be a more clever opponent than a bunch of Piglin--but oftentimes the mode suffers from putting opposing bases far apart, giving time for both teams to build rows of walls and dozens of arrow-firing towers. At that point, the flow of the match can stall into a stalemate as both sides just throw their respective units at each other in the hope of breaking the deadlock. Ground gained can be quickly dashed by an opponent shoring up a broken wall or building another arrow-firing tower. It's far faster to build structures than it is to destroy them, meaning two well-defended fortresses can each endure for quite a while--sometimes long enough for players to get fed up enough to just leave the match.
Advance Wars 1+2: Re-Boot Camp is a remake of 2001's Advance Wars and 2003's Advance Wars 2: Black Hole Rising. While the first Advance Wars hasn't aged as well as its sequel, both games are nevertheless elevated by Re-Boot Camp's robust suite of game modes, the local and online multiplayer, and an intuitive map editor. As a package, there is plenty to do, see, and unlock, and it's all held together by a fantastic presentation that evokes Saturday morning cartoons and colorful board games.
Foundationally, the Advance Wars flavor of turn-based tactical combat holds up well. In its most rudimentary form, two commanding officers hailing from different fictional countries move units around a map to wipe out enemies and capture key areas. Each unit, however, has strengths and weaknesses that need to be considered for both individual firefights and multi-turn campaigns. For example, Infantry and Mech units are the only units that can capture cities, airports, seaports, and bases. They are instrumental to securing victory, but their movement is limited and they are weak to just about everything. APCs, Transport Copters, and Landers can ferry Infantry and Mechs great distances, but they need the protection of other units due to their inability to attack. Of course, the units tasked with this responsibility also have their own set of strengths and weaknesses that need to be considered. Tanks can be devastating at close range, but long-range Rockets can make short work of them. Artillery can clean up enemies at medium range, but they are useless at close range.
Coming to grips with each and every unit can be a little daunting, but Re-Boot Camp has numerous tutorial missions across both games, many of which cover the same ground. The basics, such as commanding units and capturing cities, are handled in an optional Field Training menu, which can be accessed in both games. However, the first handful of missions in both campaigns also act as tutorials and run through the basics of armored, naval, and aerial warfare. These tutorials do a great job at showing you the strengths and weaknesses of each unit, but a lot of the same info is covered twice. This means that the early hours of Advance Wars 2: Black Hole Rising can drag on a bit if you start with the first game.
Most missions demand keen tactics, careful resource management, and a decent understanding of how each unit operates. From there, you need to balance your short-term goals alongside your long-term ones, while identifying potential threats and keeping a close eye on your enemy. Some missions give you a fixed amount of units to work with, while others are dotted with points of interest that allow you to purchase new units. Both mission types feel very different from one another; the former plays out more like a puzzle where you have to achieve victory using only what's available to you, while the latter feels more free-form since you can invest in any unit you'd like.
A unit's strengths and weaknesses don't account for everything, though, and terrain can be just as important. Mountains offer extra protection for Infantry and Mechs, while cities protect and repair land-based units. Roads give certain units more movement range, while reefs can obscure ships and submarines from enemy sightlines. Although superior terrain can’t save an Infantry unit from a tank, it can offer just enough protection for the infantry to hang on for an extra turn. This makes battles feel a bit more dynamic as you advance on an enemy or set up ambushes.
Each country is also backed up by a handful of colorful commanding officers, or COs, who have unique passive skills and abilities that range from powering up units to changing the weather. The COs add an extra layer of depth and unpredictability to combat that forces you to stay on your toes. You could be gaining ground against Eagle, the cunning CO from Green Earth, only for him to activate his Lightning Drive ability that allows his vehicular units to move and attack a second time. Not all of these COs are balanced in a multiplayer setting, but in the campaign, they do force you to think ahead and respond effectively when your rival activates their superpower.
What really ties everything together is its charming presentation. The cast of COs feels as though it’s been lifted from an old cartoon and given a fresh coat of paint, while each unit looks like it’s been unearthed from the bowels of a toy chest. This is backed by a catchy, energetic score that swings from rock and roll to jazz.
While the fundamentals of Advance Wars are strong, the first Advance Wars does a poor job of making use of all these mechanics. Throughout the story, you are introduced to nine different COs, but you can only use three for a majority of the campaign. On top of that, most missions are relatively straightforward: Defeat all the enemy units, capture the enemy's capital, or survive for a certain number of days. The units at your disposal will differ depending on the mission, but after a while, missions start to get longer and blend together due to the lack of objective variety. By the end, some missions can drag on for hours as you and your opponent get locked into a battle of attrition where no one faction can gain any significant ground.
The lack of a proper rewind feature--something that has become popular in modern strategy game design--also means that if you make a mistake, sometimes the best course of action is to restart the battle, which could cost you hours over the duration of a campaign. You can correct minor mistakes by resetting your turn in the menu, but resetting a turn can't save you from a tactical error you made a few turns back. This makes it risky to try out different strategies or experiment with different units.
While Advance Wars 2 occasionally suffers from the same issue, the campaign itself is excellent. It improves upon Advance Wars in almost every way. There's more mission variety, you are constantly trying out different COs, and the map design is much better at encouraging you to try different units and mechanics. One of my favorite missions has you defend your capital from an onslaught of enemy tanks and infantry. You are outgunned and outnumbered, and because the capital is surrounded by mountains, most of your units can't even access it. This means you must indirectly cut down the enemy before a unit reaches the capital. It's a thrilling skirmish that requires you to quickly assess threats, carefully position your units, and manage your resources. Not every mission is as good as this one, but many of them come pretty close.
Fortunately, you can skip right to Advance Wars 2 if you'd like. The game will advise you not to due to story spoilers, but the plots of both games are unremarkable. There's a bit of dialogue before and after each battle, as well as a couple cutscenes, but combat is the main event, and since it really hits its stride in Black Hole Rising, I don't think you'd miss much by skipping the first game altogether--especially since both games kick off with a tutorial and the difficulty ramps up at a similar pace.
As you play through the campaigns, you'll earn coins that can be spent at Hachi's Shop in the main menu. Here you can purchase music from the excellent soundtrack, artwork, and new Battle Maps and COs that can be used in some of Re-Boot Camp's additional modes. One of the standout modes for this is local multiplayer. You can play with multiple consoles via local connection, or you can play on one console by passing the controller. This is where Advance Wars really leans into board game aesthetics. Gathering around a TV with friends, passing the controller back and forth as everyone vies for control, feels like the way Advance Wars was meant to be played. There are dozens of multiplayer maps and a bunch of COs that keep combat fresh for each battle, so multiplayer does have some longevity. There's even a great map editor that lets you create and share fully functioning maps in minutes. The sharing capabilities are pretty limited, allowing you to only share with friends.
Online plays similarly with up to two players; however, the lack of an asynchronous multiplayer mode seems like a huge missed opportunity. Battles can drag on as turns get longer and longer, and without that communal feel of local multiplayer, it can be painfully slow. A mode that allows you and your friends to take turns at your leisure would have been perfect for this style of turn-based combat.
What makes Advance War 1+2: Re-Boot Camp an exciting prospect today is the same as what made the games compelling when they were first released: fun and approachable strategic gameplay that is built on a solid foundation. While the first title certainly shows its age in the latter stages, the moments of magic that earned Advance Wars a passionate fan base are still there. If turn-based tactical combat is your thing, there is plenty to sink your teeth into here.
Games labeled as being in "development hell" rarely release in a state anyone would want to experience--if they release at all. With Dead Island 2, however, Dambuster Studios kicks away a decade of dev hell problems like they’re a zombie lunging for its throat to deliver an undead RPG that is surely imperfect, but also enjoyable and even inventive.
Dead Island 2 is a first-person action-RPG set against the backdrop of the same zombie plague that caused mayhem in the original game's story. It moves the series away from its fictional island of Banoi and brings it to Los Angeles--which, you may recall, is definitely not an island. It's an odd move given the franchise's name, but a forgivable one once you begin to explore, as the semi-open world of the game's story and setting prove to be one of its greatest aspects.
None of the game's many locations are massive, but several of them are big enough, and regardless of its size, each zone is full of secrets, side quests, and plenty of reasons to stray from the main path. Dead Island 2 shirks a true sandbox-style open world in favor of smaller but more authored locales with far fewer repeating elements. It's ultimately a benefit to the game, as it tends to strike an engrossing balance between width and depth.
The game's world design relies on indirect routes. While exploring the pier, fences will cause you to duck through the arcade and past the bumper cars to get to the other end, creating new set pieces and keeping you zig-zagging through the unpredictable world. On the beach, storefronts are often explorable, rewarding you with great weapons, cash for upgrades, or other optional secrets. There are few straight paths through LA, and around every corner you'll find more monsters and the treasures they loom over. Backtracking is common, especially when tackling the game's 40+ side missions alongside its 24 main quests. Your first time through any zone, you won't be able to see and do everything, and the many locked doors you'll leave behind make retreading your steps a rewarding effort, as side quests open up new avenues consistently.
Getting through the world of "HELL-A" isn't just about walking the Venice Beach boardwalk or trekking down the lavish Beverly Hills. Chiefly, it's about bludgeoning, beheading, maiming, or otherwise decommissioning the countless zombies who get in your way. Dead Island 2 does an excellent job of evolving its first-person combat by way of both ample enemy and weapon variety, as well as a satisfying combat system that feels weighty and well-considered. I was still discovering new weapons even after I beat the main story, including some named weapons that represent the game's best loot available. Each weapon, be it a firefighter's axe, a wrench, a baseball bat, or one of many others, feels different, and the crafting system contains dozens of blueprints that can customize each weapon several times over, giving them familiar but still exciting status effects, as well as buffs to your chosen "Slayer" of the game's roster of six heroes.
With so much weapon variety, the zombies do well to match. The early distinction between walkers, runners, and shamblers doesn't take long to give way to hulk-like crushers, disorienting screamers, and much more. Dambuster stays true to the mythos of the original game by reintroducing many of the same classes of zombies, albeit now with more variety in their unique immunities, like electrified screamers who can't be killed with electricity since, well, that's already their whole deal. Even then, the game also introduces several new types of undead not previously seen in the series, too.
Adding weight and variety to the combat is great, but it's not really new to the genre. Dead Island 2's secret weapon is its highly detailed damage model--something Dambuster can hang its hat on. Every single enemy in the game exists like the world's grossest onion, with each layer able to be peeled away via katana, mallet, or anything else you'll equip.
Smash a zombie with a baton and the skull will crumble away to reveal the brain, or perhaps their jaw will hang loose like keys on a lanyard. Frying them to a crisp with electricity or melting away their skin with an in-universe sludge called Caustic-X will provide markedly different results. This makes it so not only do you need to consider how and where to inflict damage upon every single enemy in the game, but every slash, gash, and bash will be accounted for. It's unlike anything I've seen in a zombie game, and I've played dozens of them. I've never really been into gore for gore's sake, but even I'll admit that there's a special type of flair to punching a hole through the head of a zombie with homemade Wolverine claws that you just don't see in the genre very much, regardless of the medium.
Combining all of the exciting weapons with the highly varied hordes of zombies makes each encounter a conscious effort. Rarely is it the case where you can turn your brain off and bash through a collection of undead to get to an objective they're blocking. Each fight takes a concerted, thoughtful approach--and to my surprise, it stays tough all the way through.
All this praise is not without some caveats, however. For one, that difficulty can sometimes wade into feeling unfair. Enemies spawn quickly, and the game rarely lets you rest. In the game's two- or three-player co-op, this is usually fine, as you have helping hands, and it gives the world a sense of insecurity that a zombie plague should provide. But in single-player, some of the encounters, as well as the relentless enemy-spawning, may leave you feeling like you're swimming upstream in a river of blood and viscera. Sometimes a particular enemy will be the focus of your objective, and though the game does well to telegraph this, it can be tough to push through the horde to get to the one whose re-death will actually halt the horde from persisting.
Secondly, none of my praise for the game's melee combat can be applied to its gunplay. Guns start to crop up in the game about a third of the way through the story, and though there is also plenty of variety in these weapons--made deeper by player-driven customizations--guns are unwieldy and often feel like a liability. Oddly, they feel better to use when fired from the hip rather than aiming down their sights.There's a cumbersome unpredictability whenever the sight is used, which creates a discrepancy between where you were targeting from the hip and where you may then be targeting from the sight. It behaves like recoil that occurs before you've even fired a shot. This slows down gunplay as it means constantly re-lining up shots whenever you choose to aim in the first place, and though that should at least mean the shotguns of the world are fine since they hardly require aiming, they always felt underpowered.
The game's best gun, the hunting rifle, was my go-to when I felt like I had to use any firearms, but even then I'd just try to line up headshots from the hip, knowing that aiming more than that would likely just cause me to waste ammo. Still, you can feasibly beat the game using few to no guns at all, and you may be better off for it.
Exploration, combat, and upgrades all shine, which is helpful when the story is so forgettable. Though the sequel is written by a different team than the original, Dead Island 2's writing suffers from problems that tie them together like a familiar bouquet of unexplained motivations, grating dialogue, and a bad final act that races past a would-be charming level of campiness and crashes into groan-inducing territory.
I would be hard-pressed to name nearly any character other than my selected hero, Amy, or Sam B., who reprises his role from the first game. A fictional actor named Emma Jaunt plays a central part, too, and a shadowy legion of anti-heroes routinely pops up to mime narrative intrigue, but none of it amounts to anything.
The spirit of the story is fun in a Grand Theft Auto sort of way, in that it targets, above all others, rich American socialites as the butt of its jokes. Though some of these characters are made out to be good people, the writing often revels in sending zombie teeth barreling for the jugulars of streamers, actors, and others deemed to be the vapid wealthy elite. But this is merely the air of storytelling. It lets the world feel lived in, and it actually makes some of the many collectibles enjoyable to read, but whenever cutscenes would threaten to tell a story, I found myself groaning like the undead.
For a game in development for more than a decade, it's a minor miracle for Dead Island 2 to come out at all. The fact that it's arrived in such a state that players can have fun with it for the duration of its story and beyond--even as that story itself is an afterthought--is a testament to the team that got it to a once-unlikely finish line. Along with the lackluster story, poor gunplay and some balancing issues hurt Dead Island 2, but its deep melee combat systems and rich setting make it a better game than the original, which is maybe the most important thing I can say about it after everything it's been through.
Bithell Games finds itself with its highest-profile project to date in Tron: Identity, a visual novel set in Disney's sci-fi universe. On paper, combining an IP as narratively rich as Tron with a studio as driven by telling stories as Bithell should be a good match. And though Tron: Identity is a masterfully told tale, even with the branching possibilities it presents, the game ends so abruptly that it puts a dampener on the experience.
Tron: Identity follows Query, a detective tasked with solving a case involving an explosion at The Repository, a massive building in the center of The Grid. Something valuable has been stolen from the Vault where the explosion occurred, and Query must investigate by speaking with those in charge of The Repository, asking questions to gain information, and solving puzzles to unlock memories stored in the series' iconic Identity Discs.
From the jump, it's clear this choose-your-own-adventure style of visual novel is right in Bithell Games' wheelhouse. The first choice you're given seems innocuous, but it will affect how some people speak with you later down the line. Some characters switch from friendly to hostile depending on what you say, while others can go in the opposite direction. There were multiple moments early on where what I thought was the right decision blew up in my face, which kept me on my toes for the rest of the game. Every choice you make holds some weight and discovering the different paths through multiple playthroughs leads to some surprising new information.
Replaying the game for all the info isn't a huge time commitment, as the full Tron: Identity story can be completed in less time than it takes to watch any of the Tron movies. My first time through the game, beginning with the title sequence and ending with the credits, took about 90 minutes. That includes solving all of the puzzles, having every possible conversation, and always choosing options that offer extra information. It's not a Tron movie so much as it's a long Disney+ episode of a nonexistent Tron series, and while it's a very strong episode with lots of twists and an intriguing cliffhanger, the run time leaves a lot to be desired.
It's not that the brevity of the game is in itself bad--shorter games are definitely welcome in the age of vast open-world sandboxes we're currently living in--it's more about wanting to explore more of this new slice of Tron lore, and also about learning more about these particular characters. Going back to the "long Disney+ episode" analogy, reaching the end of this story felt like getting to the end of an episode of one of Telltale Games's stories, but with one key difference--I knew Telltale's games were episodic, so cliffhangers before the credits weren't as jarring. I had no such knowledge going into this game, and while Bithell has announced sequels since I've finished the story, technically I still don't know if they'll be direct follow-ups of Query's adventure here. Without knowing for sure, though, this game just leaves me hanging.
The majority of that gameplay is spent in conversation with one of the handful of NPCs throughout the Repository, which offer multiple dialogue options that affect not only the actions of the plot, but the attitudes of those involved. Some runs will be a bloodbath. On that first run through, I discovered at least four of the six NPCs I encountered can be derezzed--Tron-speak for "killed"--depending on the choices I made. Make certain choices, however, and there are runs where no one will die at all. The unpredictable nature of the story, even in the second or third time through, is one of Tron: Identity's major strengths, as I never could guess what was coming in the next scene.
A few times during the game, Query is asked to perform a task involving the Identity Discs of other characters. This task is represented in puzzle form, with multiple nodes of varying colors and numbers appearing on-screen. The goal is to eliminate nodes, one by one, until a target number of nodes remains, and you do that by choosing a node and matching it--either by number or colored symbol--to another one either right next to it or exactly three spaces away, which makes the one you're not holding disappear.
These puzzles, which are fun little brain teasers, unfortunately do very little to advance the plot or my enjoyment of the game. Most of the time, they surface while I'm fully engaged in a scene, after which I'm then required to match symbols and numbers until the puzzle goes away and I can get back into the storytelling. Fortunately, the game allows you to skip any puzzle--which, in runs after the first, is a very welcome option. The game does include an Endless mode of just puzzles as well, so if I'm ever in a brain-teaser mood, I can fire this up and snuff out nodes to my heart's content.
The in-game Codex also offers lore hunters a neat treasure hunt, as small pulsing nodes appear in multiple scenes throughout the game. Activating one unlocks a Codex entry, which further expands on how Tron: Identity fits into the larger Tron lore and the role that the game's characters have within it. One of the entries is written entirely in hexadecimal numbering, just to spice things up even further.
However, there's one major issue I have with the Codex: For each of the game's NPCs, there is a chart with all of the different branches your relationship with that character can take. However, the screen only shows me the results of my most recent run. If the non-character entries of the Codex can carry over through multiple runs, why can't the branches of each character's story do the same once I've seen the corresponding scene? The completionist portion of my brain would have liked to see all of those question marks become worded entries, but alas it is not to be.
Tron: Identity is a sharply written story that offers not only a fresh look at Tron, but also an interesting visual novel/puzzle hybrid format. The pacing of the story, the agency I feel when making choices, and the immediate weight of those choices make this a fine new addition to the visual novel library--even if the puzzles routinely pull me out of the story for a moment. I just wish there were more story told here, as my initial disappointment when finishing the game came not from what I'd played, but that the game was over so quickly. Ultimately, that's the mark of a well-made game, but I hope we get to learn more about this new Tron game's identity in the near future.
EA Sports PGA Tour is unlike any other golf game I've played. It still features familiar elements from the series' past--back when Tiger Woods was front and center--such as slow-motion heartbeat moments and climactic power shots. But after an eight-year hiatus from the world of golf simulation, EA has returned to the fairway with a more demanding recreation of the sport that's as much about feel as it is mastering the game's robust mechanics. With 30 courses covering all four majors--including The Masters at Augusta National--EA Sports PGA Tour has a plethora of golfing action to sink your teeth into. It's just a shame there are a few notable issues in critical areas that hold it back from greatness.
The first of these is the game's swing mechanic. If you've played a golf game before, the actual act of swinging a driver or 5-iron will be familiar. You pull down on the analog stick to bring the club back, then push forward again to unleash your shot. This has been a staple in golf games for a number of years now, and there aren't any alternatives at the moment--not until a three-click system is implemented in a later update. The issue with EA Sports PGA Tour is that there's a slight delay between your input and the on-screen visual. Your swing isn't 1:1, so there's an uneasy disconnect where you never quite feel like you're in total control. The general malaise of each swing doesn't help matters either, with the slow, clunky pacing and frustrating lag making it difficult to nail the timing and power of each shot. I eventually grew accustomed to these idiosyncrasies over time, but it never feels quite right and fails to capture the satisfaction that hitting a 300-yard tee shot should achieve.
To compound the issue, EA Sports PGA Tour also lacks any sort of meaningful tutorial. There are tooltips that pop up and cover the basics the first time you play, but these brief snippets barely scratch the surface of everything going on under the hood. Instead, the game has a suite of challenges that happen to include a Coaching Academy. This is the best place to start, even if these challenges still neglect to offer any tips or feedback to help you along the way. What you get is a variety of contextual situations covering different aspects of the sport, from putting downhill to dealing with elevation changes and the multitude of shot types on offer. There's a lot of trial and error involved, but the repetition of replaying each situation does give you a greater understanding of how everything works. It's not a very user-friendly approach, but it sets expectations and is genuinely helpful in an unconventional way, even if it might prove frustrating for some. Plus, completing these challenges also earns you XP that can be used to improve your created character.
EA Sports PGA Tour's career mode sits front and center, starting off with your no-name golfer competing in the qualifying school before moving on to the amateur Korn Ferry Tour. The ultimate goal is to reach the PGA Tour, which can be done either by winning one of the many four-round courses or by placing highly enough in the Korn Ferry rankings come season's end. You can expedite this process by opting for a quick play mode where you only need to play a few holes rather than an entire round, but I think playing full rounds is the way to go. That's mostly because it gives you ample time to fine-tune your skills, learn the courses, and gain a better understanding of the game's mechanics. There's also a palpable sense of progression that comes from leveling up your golfer. Earning XP lets you build your skills in driving, approach play, short game, and putting, while progressing each attribute also unlocks more shot types, giving you additional options when preparing to send the ball careening toward the green.
Fortunately, the Coaching Academy includes challenges for each of the game's myriad shot types, giving you the opportunity to see how each one functions before playing competitively. There's value in understanding the differences between a runner, spinner, or knock-down shot, but knowing when to utilize each one essentially comes down to a matter of feel. In this respect, EA Sports PGA Tour resembles the sport of golf more accurately than any other game. There are a number of variables at play for every single shot, to the point where there's a real thought process behind each swing. You have to choose the right shot type and club for each situation, adjust for wind and elevation, judge how much power you need to put into the swing, and account for the distinct ways each course plays--tweaking your shot shape depending on the shape of the fairway and lie of the bunkers. The game helps to some degree by displaying relevant information such as wind speed and distance, but then you're left to your own devices. This can be frustrating, particularly early on when you're still learning the ropes and your golfer's attributes aren't up to snuff, but once everything clicks, EA Sports PGA Tour plays an engrossing game of golf that can be incredibly rewarding.
Much of this is down to the courses themselves. Every single one of the 30 officially licensed courses is staggeringly beautiful and offers an authentic attention to detail, whether it's Liberty National and its view of the Manhattan skyline, the waves crashing against the sand at Pebble Beach, or the alligators lurking in the water at TPC Sawgrass. Almost every course is iconic on some level, and they've all been faithfully rendered and recreated, right down to individual blades of grass. The absence of a course designer is a tad disappointing, but unlike PGA Tour 2K23, it's not something that feels like a necessity because there are already so many 18-hole delights. The courses are the game's main character, providing the kind of variety and depth to stave off any tedium. Mastering a golf game's mechanics is usually the key to success, but EA Sports PGA Tour's courses demand much more from you. Each one plays differently, whether it's the roll of the green or the width of the fairway impacting your decision-making. It genuinely feels like you're playing against the course rather than the shot meter.
The physics model, which is built around the official TrackMan data for ball tracking and swing analysis, is excellent for the most part. However, there are some inconsistencies when it comes to ball rollout. On The Old Course at St Andrews, for instance, the rollout is overly extreme to the point where the ball will roll uphill at pace, even through heavy rough. This forces you to account for situations that shouldn't really occur. Once you land on the green, putting is also equally aggravating for different reasons. Each green contains a grid that uses moving beads to show you the direction of the break. The problem is that sometimes this data is inaccurate and the break is opposite to what the beads are showing. The putt reader alleviates this somewhat by showing the ideal path to the hole, but this is also misleading at times. With no reliable way to gauge the breaks, putting is a lesson in irritation that will only be rectified if these issues are fixed in future updates.
Outside of career mode, EA Sports PGA Tour also features various tournament options for use in online matches against the community. If you want to play against friends, however, stroke play is the only option, and there's a disappointing lack of alternating play for those who want to see each other tee off. A range of daily, weekly, and seasonal tournaments give you another chance to earn XP and items like club specs and in-game cash for a limited time before they're refreshed, so there's an incentive to keep coming back. That in-game cash can be spent in a store of rotating items including various cosmetics, which holds some appeal because the character creator is extremely barebones. Outfitting your golfer in branded clothing can be fairly costly, though, which is explained by the inclusion of microtransactions for those who would rather buy the in-game currency with real money. This isn't a surprising move, but it doesn't exactly vibe with the serene mood.
After almost a decade away from the sport, EA's return to the golf course is a promising one. The range of shot types, courses, and tangible variables make for a methodical and tactical game of golf that's both challenging and rewarding. It stumbles by barely introducing players to its robust mechanics, while a laggy swing and inconsistent putting are notable flaws on what is otherwise a fantastic golf sim. EA Sports PGA Tour represents a solid re-entry for the series and lays down a sturdy foundation for an auspicious future.
The premise of Storyteller is simple yet tantalizing: You create stories that yield a certain outcome by altering the order in which key events occur. You do this by filling in boxes that resemble comic strip panels, using an established list of characters and settings to do so. As you structure your story, adjusting variables where needed in order to create the ending needed to pass the level, the panels interact with each other, resulting in a sort of interactive butterfly effect.
The challenges start off simple enough--make the prince and princess fall in love, help the knight slay the monster, etc.--then quickly become a bit more complex, requiring you to understand a certain character's temperament and how that may flavor their interactions with others. For example, the noble knight is wary of murdering another character. The bloodthirsty baron, on the other hand, will leap at the opportunity. Similarly, the knight will always vie for the queen's affection, though it remains up to you to get her to feel the same towards him.
Simplicity is the heart of Storyteller--for better and for worse. The game's mechanics are easy to understand and make for a breezy experience, and its muted, cartoony-yet-minimalistic artwork is charming. Its simplicity also makes for an experience that suits portable consoles well, as it's easy to pick up and play a few puzzles while on the go.
But while its premise is inspired, Storyteller suffers from feeling overly simple. At nearly 30 minutes into the game's hour-long runtime, it already begins to feel empty and far too small--too small for creativity, too small to provide a sense of challenge, and too small to create an engaging experience. You quickly discover there are very few variables and characters you can interact with, and they are frequently repeated throughout levels. This means once you're halfway through the game, you'll have no new puzzle pieces to ponder over or to attempt to squeeze into their proper place. And, once you have a grasp on how these variables interact with each other, each level feels less like a puzzle and more like a quick exercise of tossing things into place in order to move forward.
At times, the game begins to feel downright tedious, as you are no longer solving puzzles but merely arranging very obvious sequences of events. One puzzle, for example, tasked me with establishing several different characters as related by having them say, "I am your parent" to other characters. There was no challenge to it, just the frustration of having to create several panels with the same sentence spoken by different characters to establish this lineage and some affection for each other. Regardless, and with the exception of one level that took me slightly longer than usual to figure out, I was able to absent-mindedly breeze through the entire experience, which fails to provide the sense of satisfaction you want from a puzzle game.
Even the handful of optional objectives scattered throughout its levels don't add much complexity to the game, as they often task you with just tweaking a couple things to get a slightly different result. These challenges often included things like completing a story in a certain number of frames or without using a particular character, yet are so simple you can generally knock them out the first time you solve the puzzle. Sure, it was cute enough to see some of these differences play out, but it also made me wish the game offered more room for creativity--a larger bank of variables to play around with and more options on how to reach a level's end goal.
Storyteller is frustrating in that it never feels as if you are truly solving a puzzle or creating a story of your own. Rather, you are trying to piece together the exact story the game expects from you. While there are a few levels where you can attain a satisfactory ending multiple ways, these feel few and far between. Ultimately, all these issues stifle the experience, reducing it to a creative concept that doesn't feel fulfilled. This also eliminates any replayability the game might have, as once you play a level, there's no benefit to trying to find a different solution and achieve a new outcome.
As someone who loves fairy tales and has sunk quite a few hours into creative puzzle games like Scribblenauts, I was delighted by the prospect of playing Storyteller. Unfortunately, the experience was underwhelming. While its concept is interesting, the game ultimately feels confined--held back by simple puzzles and its lack of creative freedom.
The Last of Us Part I's PS5 version was reviewed by Jake Dekker, while its PC port was reviewed by Alessandro Barbosa.
Joel looks different in The Last of Us Part I. It took me a while to notice, but once I did, it was hard to unsee. There's a pain in his eyes. His clothes and features are the same, but there's a quiet, unmistakable torment imprinted on his face. I've played The Last of Us nearly a dozen times across PS3 and PS4, and I had never seen it worn so plainly. I know Joel has a troubled past because The Last of Us Part I goes out of its way to show you a traumatic death in the opening scene, but that pain was never etched into his facial features this clearly.
There's an argument to be made that The Last of Us Part I is too similar to the PS3 and PS4 versions to be considered a remake, and part of me agrees with that sentiment. The story is identical, the level design is exactly the same, and the gameplay--apart from some quality-of-life improvements--is unchanged. On paper, if you've played The Last of Us and remember it well, there's little reason to return to it on PS5.
But The Last of Us Part I is more than the sum of its parts. It's an unrelenting tour de force that strategically leverages the power of the PlayStation 5 to push its story and themes a little further. Slight though many of them may be, all its enhancements serve the story, and the story is just as good as it was nine years ago.
The most obvious way The Last of Us Part I does this is with its visuals. The overhauled lighting, sharp new textures, and smoother animations make The Last of Us a prettier game, but it's the details in the faces and characters that make it a more meaningful one. I can feel the repressed pain in Joel, sense the pervasive hope in Marlene, and glimpse fleeting moments of innocence in Ellie.
These details may not alter the way you think about these characters, but they certainly add more depth to them. Admittedly, these are also details that I've internalized through my multiple playthroughs, years of thinking about the game, and hours of consuming analysis of it. But the intricacies in the way characters are now depicted mean that, for newcomers in particular, the nuances are more immediately perceptible. The writing and acting remain as strong as ever, and although none of the changes recontextualize characters or events, delicate retouches give them greater gravitas.
What does recontextualize the characters is the existence of The Last of Us Part II. Joel's actions are harder to stomach knowing their eventual consequences, and Ellie's bloody quest for revenge in the sequel makes her character arc in Part I all the more tragic. Even if you didn't like the direction the narrative took in Part II, it makes the final moments of The Last of Us Part I tougher to swallow.
What's more interesting is that, despite knowing how things would eventually shake out, I rarely questioned Joel's motives throughout the game, even in those final moments. It's a testament to Naughty Dog's superb storytelling and fantastic characters that--despite knowing full well what Joel's actions entailed--I wanted to protect Ellie at all costs. All those complicated feelings The Last of Us left me with nine years ago came back stronger when I wrapped up Part I.
The gameplay improvements, although subtle, are also done in service of the story. Aiming is more responsive, weapons have a satisfying heft to them, and Joel is a bit easier to maneuver. He's not as nimble as Ellie is in Part II, but a lot of the rough edges in the original have been smoothed out. This kind of stuff is to be expected in remaster or remake, but in the case of The Last of Us Part I, it removes another barrier from the experience. The tweaks to the combat and gameplay give Joel a more cohesive characterization on screen. It may seem like reading a bit too much into it but think of the times you've clumsily missed your gunshots because of the way the aiming works and how that undermined a character we're told has been fighting to survive in a hellish post-apocalypse for 20 years--he shouldn't be whiffing shots in matters of life and death. With the tweaks, The Last of Us Part I's Joel feels more like a cold and calculated combatant. He is as ruthless as you'd expect from someone in his position and with his tragic history.
The improved AI, meanwhile, brings with it a greater sense of peril, especially on the tougher difficulties. Enemies are more aggressive and employ advanced tactics. Some will pressure you from afar while others will flank you if you aren't paying attention. Every now and then an enemy will wait for you to approach and go for an ambush. The unpredictable AI makes for some harrowing firefights. Success demands a mixture of forethought, improvisation, and skill.
What really makes the AI so effective is its tenacity. Enemies will fight tooth and nail to survive. If you take an enemy hostage, they will try to bargain with you. Others in the vicinity will try to talk you down before taking action. If you hold a hostage for too long, they will struggle free and return fire. The enemies you come across don't just feel like an obstacle you have to overcome. They feel like people desperately trying to survive in a world that has been torn apart.
It helps that companion AI is much better, too. In the original, Ellie, Tess, and Bill would frequently end up in places they shouldn't have been. They couldn't alert enemies, but it was always jarring to see Ellie run in front of an infected while looking for cover. Occasionally in Part I, a companion did get in my way in some tighter areas, but I haven't seen anyone carelessly wander into the fray in this new version. It's a small fix but, once again, it makes this world feel more authentic.
Where The Last of Us Part I shows its age is in its level design. Just like the original nine years ago, the game often relies on pallets, dumpsters, and ladders for its traversal puzzles. The Last of Us Part I takes place over the course of a year, and Joel never takes the time to teach Ellie to swim. This means that every time you encounter deep water you need to find a conveniently placed pallet to ferry her across a small body of water. It was hard to overlook back then, but it's even harder to overlook now. Naughty Dog has gone through great pains to immerse the player in the world, and these simple puzzles don't fit the tone of the game. They are rote video game moments in an experience that doesn’t need them.
The combat arenas also feel a bit too enclosed and straightforward. There are some standouts, like the docks at the beginning of the game or the bookstore in Philadelphia, but most of the encounters take place in linear corridors with waist-high objects used as cover. This lack of freedom limits your options in combat and makes it difficult to improvise when your back is up against a wall. It's a shame because Joel's arsenal is varied, and his craftable items can be fun to use.
It's even harder to overlook given how impressive Part II's level design was. The reason why combat felt so dynamic in Part II was because there was always room to improvise and multiple avenues of approach to support this. This is unmistakably one of those moments where the limited scope of this "remake" undermines the idea of creating harmony between the first and second parts of The Last of Us' overall story. While the narrative and characterization certainly feel more cohesive now, the same can't be said for how it feels to play the two games.
The biggest example of this is Joel's inability to go prone. It may have seemed like a minor mechanic in The Last of Us Part II, but it fundamentally changed the way I approached combat. Obviously, Part I was not designed with a crawling Joel in mind. There is no grass to hide in, and cover is almost always waist-high, but the inability to go prone does create more of a dissonance between Part I and Part II.
However, fixating on gameplay discrepancies between both games diminishes The Last of Us Part I's achievements. The brilliantly-paced narrative is supported by some of the finest environmental storytelling in the business. So much of the world and its inhabitants can be extracted from the smallest details. A throwaway line between two hostile enemy NPCs can shed light on other parts of the world, while a simple message scrawled across a wall hints at how the outbreak was handled two decades ago. The environments are rich with details that add flavor to Joel and Ellie's journey.
The most welcome addition to The Last of Us Part I is its impressive suite of accessibility features. Like The Last of Us Part II, there are a wide range of visual, auditory, and difficulty settings that significantly lower the bar to entry and make the experience more accommodating. You can customize subtitles, tweak screenshake, enable different vision modes, and retool the controls at any time to fit your needs. Even if you don't think you need any of these features, you might find something in there to make your experience a little smoother. I frequently played with high-contrast mode enabled to help me track down smaller collectibles that I wouldn't normally be able to see, but for others, these newly added options might make what was previously an unplayable game into a playable one.
Additionally, The Last of Us Part I adds a ton of new unlockables in the Extras menu. Like in previous Naughty Dog games, as you play through the story you accrue points that can be used to unlock all sorts of things. There's concept art from both the original and remake, new and returning character skins, gameplay modifiers like infinite ammo and explosive arrows, and a handful of behind-the-scenes videos and podcasts. While none of this fundamentally changes the experience, I spent hours digging through this menu to admire all the intricately designed character models and test out the new gameplay modifiers. These bells and whistles do a good job of rounding out the package.
The most painful omission from this remake is Factions, the stellar PvP mode from the original game. The multiplayer mode had players choose a faction and build out a camp of survivors by running Supply Raids, which were matches that pitted you against the rival faction. Success would earn you resources to keep your compound afloat. Naughty Dog is working on an expanded standalone multiplayer component set in the world of The Last of Us and its sequel, but it's a shame the original Factions mode didn't make the cut.
Those looking for a little longevity from the game can instead try the speedrun and permadeath modes. The permadeath mode in particular fits nicely with the themes of The Last of Us. It's not for the faint of heart, even on easier difficulties, but it significantly ups the stakes. Every encounter must be tackled with precision, and a wasted bullet could lead to an untimely death. The speedrun mode on the other hand feels at odds with what The Last of Us accomplishes with its story. The thoughtful pace and quiet moments are undone by a timer and a scoring system. It's not necessarily a bad inclusion, and it's available as an option, but it's definitely not the way I'd like to experience The Last of Us Part I.
All these improvements taken by themselves may seem minor, but together they make one of the most memorable games of the PS3 era even better. In some ways, the two parts of The Last of Us are now better aligned, making transitioning between them much smoother. However, in other ways, the years of progress in game design and development are all too apparent. But while some of the level design may not have aged all that well, the vivid cast of characters and remarkable story are more poignant than ever.
The Last of Us Part I For PC
Hot off the heels of the successful The Last of Us on HBO, the long-awaited port of the first game in Naughty Dog's acclaimed series has arrived on PC with disappointing results. Those who have waited over a decade since the game's original release on PS3, or anyone looking to replay the first chapter in Joel and Ellie's tale again on PC, will be let down by the game's overall performance, which manages to shine only on the most expensive and least used hardware on the market today.
There are two fundamental issues that plague The Last of Us Part I on PC. First is VRAM (video memory found on your GPU) usage, and more specifically how much the game demands. Running at 1440p with Ultra settings, the game's expansive settings menu informed me that the 12GB of VRAM on my RTX 3080 Ti would not be enough, suggesting I drop settings like texture quality and filtering down to compensate. Ignoring the advice led to some consistent stuttering during gameplay, which, for a change, isn't down to shader compilation stutter. After first opening the game, you're subjected to a 45-minute-long shader compilation (which you'll have to do again after a graphics driver update or reinstallation), negatively impacting performance if you decide to play while this happens. But once that's complete, it meant that any stutters I did encounter were exclusively due to settings pushing past the recommended VRAM limits.
That means, for a relatively powerful GPU like the RTX 3080 Ti, Ultra settings even at 1440p were off the table, which doesn't bode well for cards lower down the chain. The RTX 3070, a popular choice amongst PC gamers, only comes with 8GB of VRAM, which prevents you from playing The Last of Us Part I with anything higher than Medium texture settings, irrespective of resolution. I verified this using an RTX 3050 with 8 GB of VRAM, which doesn't perform equally to the RTX 3070 but has the exact same memory limitations. What's problematic about that is just how drastically different the game looks at these settings, with texture resolution and clarity taking a significant hit between High and Medium presets. It's so degraded that it's at a point where you're playing a far less visually impressive game when compared to its PlayStation 5 version, despite having more capable hardware.
The second issue is CPU performance. The Last of Us Part I makes surprisingly great use of all the cores of your CPU, which isn't the norm in a sea of titles that are still so reliant on powerful single cores. What is baffling, and detrimental to performance, is just how much the game is using your CPU all the time, and how hard it is frequently each core in the least demanding scenarios. Near the opening hour of the game, I was standing in an empty alleyway with only two other NPCs in sight and zero interactions taking place. At this moment, The Last of Us Part I was hammering all 12 threads of my AMD Ryzen 5600X, with each one reporting over 80% usage. While moving around and engaging in combat, each thread was routinely hovering around 90-95% usage, touching 100% from time to time and limiting my overall frame rate as a result. Marvel's Spider-Man on PC is another CPU-heavy game, but in that situation it makes more sense, as you're moving fast through a large open world with loads more happening as you zip past traffic and pedestrians. And even then, I never saw CPU usage at half of what The Last of Us Part I was demanding during my time with Spider-Man. The Last of Us Part I's CPU usage is currently out of control, and you'll probably find yourself CPU-limited in numerous scenarios even if you have the latest GPU to push past its other issues.
It's a shame that playing The Last of Us Part I right now on anything but a GPU with at least (and preferably more than) 12GB of VRAM is a severely limited experience--especially when compared to its stellar performance on Sony's own hardware--because this remake routinely establishes itself as one of the most visually captivating ports of a Sony title yet on PC. It's difficult to reconcile that this was once a game on two-generations-old console hardware, but if you have the graphical horsepower to show it off at its best, it's a marvel of gorgeous lighting, highly-detailed environments, and stunnings character modeling that is accentuated with additional PC settings that show the game off in a new, stunning light.
The settings menu itself is extensive, with helpful previews that show how your changes are affecting the image and useful descriptions informing you of what parts of your PC you're helping by turning things down. The VRAM usage meter is helpful in reigning in settings that would otherwise cause irritating stutter, but it's also the facet of this menu that's most confusing. It features a section that suggests a portion of your VRAM is being locked up by other applications and your operating system, but the figure it reports doesn't correlate to actual usage. Even more confusing is that this figure scales according to how much VRAM you have in total, with 2.4GB being used on my 12GB RTX 3080 Ti and 1.5GB on my RTX 3050. There is no real way to bring it down, either, which may (or may not) be affecting overall VRAM usage by the game itself.
This is something that should hopefully be addressed by future patches, along with a host of other performance improvements and optimizations to bring this port to a level of quality we've come to expect from Naughty Dog. It's disappointing after the relatively good work done on the Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves Collection that The Last of Us Part I seems a long way away from being a smooth experience for most players. So if you've been waiting all these years to finally experience Joel and Ellie's story for the first time, it's probably best if you wait at least a little longer.
Jackie Robinson is many things: a hall of fame baseball player; a Rookie of the Year, MVP, and World Series winner; and, most notably, the first Black man to break baseball's color line and compete in the Major Leagues. The legendary number 42 made his Brooklyn Dodgers debut in 1947 and lit up the diamond with his electric playstyle, all while facing intolerance and hatred from fans, opposing players, and teammates alike. Jackie Robinson's alluring talent was one of the reasons he was chosen to be the first Negro League player to integrate into the previously segregated Major Leagues, but it was his outstanding intangibles--such as his ability to handle racist abuse with grace--that sealed the deal. Bob Kendrick, president of the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum, will tell you that Jackie Robinson wasn't the greatest player to ply his trade in the Negro Leagues. That's not to disparage one of the greatest players of all time, but to provide context for just how good some of the league's other players were.
MLB The Show 23 shines a spotlight on these unknown and forgotten heroes of the Negro Leagues. A new Storylines mode explores the league's rich history, telling a captivating story of extraordinary people triumphing in the face of abhorrent prejudice and hate. It's a landmark moment for sports games--and video games in general--meshing The Show's consistently excellent gameplay with educational and inspiring video packages narrated by the extremely knowledgeable Kendrick himself. The rest of the game iterates on its predecessors and shakes up the Diamond Dynasty formula with some major changes, but it's Storylines: The Negro Leagues that stands out above all else and elevates the entire experience.
Eight players are featured in this interactive learning tool: Leroy "Satchel" Page, Hilton Smith, Andrew "Rube" Foster, Hank Thompson, John Jordan "Buck" O'Neil, Jackie Robinson, John Donaldson, and Martin Dihigo. You may have only heard of one or two of these players, but every legendary figure has a whole series dedicated to their life and career, with each one spanning between eight and nine episodes.
A single episode consists of a video package combining archival footage with eye-catching art that brings each player to life, and one or two gameplay scenarios that highlight what made them so special. These are similar to the Moments found in Diamond Dynasty, tasking you with completing different objectives such as striking out two batters or hitting a home run. They're usually fairly short, but the commentary adds additional trinkets about the players and the circumstances surrounding each moment, and the attention to detail in each one is fantastic. All of the authentic team uniforms and stadiums are featured, right down to the baggy pants and era-appropriate vehicles sitting in the parking lot. Even the crowds are dolled up, with men sporting ties and women wearing their finest dresses. The best teams often played each other on Sunday afternoons, so the capacity crowds would show up after church dressed in their Sunday best. These weren't just ballgames, but social occasions, and a venue for African-Americans to express themselves. It's great that this is reflected in the game.
However, the moments that stand out the most are those that implement details learned from Kendrick's fascinating narration. In your first game pitching with Satchel Page, for instance, his repertoire consists of the usual fastballs and sliders. Yet this changes after you find out he had unique names for every pitch type he threw. In subsequent games, you choose to pitch from a selection including a bee, dipsy, and creep. It's a small detail, but one of the ways Storylines showcases Satchel's enormous personality. The best of these is when he makes a point of striking out the side after a white opposing player insults him with a racial epithet. The kicker is that he does so after instructing the entire defense to huddle around the mound; such was his confidence that the hitters wouldn't be able to make contact with his electrifying stuff.
Baseball is a sport full of history and mythology, and you can see how Kendrick relishes in recounting the myths surrounding these players while also delving into the facts. His stories are as much about baseball as they are about civil rights, and the way he tells them is both captivating and highly illuminating. This might be the first time you'll hear about Negro League teams having to take grueling 24-hour bus rides to away games, not knowing if they'd be able to find a place to eat or a hotel to stay in because of their skin color. In the modern game, Shohei Ohtani is rightfully lauded for being an All-Star at the plate and on the mound, with many proclaiming that such a feat hasn't occurred since Babe Ruth graced the diamond, yet the Negro Leagues were full of exceptional two-way stars--including Martin Dihigo, who was not only a pitcher but also played every single position on the field.
Storylines: The Negro Leagues draws attention to players who were lionized by their communities because of their ability to excel and overcome the limits imposed on them by systemic racism. These eight Black baseball pioneers are some of the best the sport has ever known, yet knowing who they are is a rarity for so many. The Show 23 is hopefully a marker for change, because the Negro Leagues are an integral part of both baseball and American history, and the people involved deserve to have their stories told.
You can even match them up against modern stars, as completing each player's series unlocks a 90-rated version of them for use in Diamond Dynasty. The long-running card-collecting mode remains one of the best iterations of its type. Microtransactions are still present, but Sony San Diego continues to move further away from this gross practice cementing itself at Diamond Dynasty's core. There are dozens of ways to collect and build a team of your favorite players just by playing the game, whether they're legends from the past or current superstars--from mini-seasons and showdowns to conquest maps and online ranked matches.
The big change this year is a shift to seasonal teams, which breaks the traditional power curve by introducing 99-rated cards right out of the gate. Throughout the year, seasons will cycle out cards to ensure that squads are kept fresh. For instance, you can currently earn World Baseball Classic-themed cards, but once Season 3 starts on July 7, these players won't be available to use in modes like Conquest and ranked matches. Instead, there will be new cards to unlock and use, ensuring that you won't end up facing the same two pitchers throughout the game's lifespan, as was the case last year. It's a divisive change, but one that will make for more diverse teams while also letting you earn powerful cards much earlier than before.
The addition of team captains also makes it viable to build theme teams, as new Captain cards will boost particular players. If you set someone like newly added legend Derek Jeter as captain and put him on a team with other Captain Series hitters, they'll all receive boosts to various attributes. Currently, this ties into mini-seasons, where you can compete with theme teams to earn specific rewards. One requires you to build a squad like the one mentioned above, while the other challenges you to construct a team comprised of nothing but lefties. This incentivizes you to use players you might not otherwise consider and should keep mini-seasons feeling fresh throughout the year.
Once you step up to the plate or settle in on the mound, The Show 23 still plays a fantastic game of baseball. Tweaks to the Button Accuracy throwing meter create a greater disparity between good and great fielders, while also factoring in the difficulty of each throw. Previously, the meter was consistent, with the accurate green zone always appearing in the middle. This made it easy to hurl pinpoint throws each time, but now the green zone will dynamically move and shrink to account for tough infield plays and long outfield throws. Fielding is more engaging as a result, and this adds to the game's authenticity as you'll definitely see more throwing errors this time around. The outfield also feels somewhat bigger. This is taken from a small sample size, but so far, doubles are much more prevalent than home runs in The Show 23. The long ball was perhaps too frequent last year, but now the pendulum seems to have swung the opposite way. This isn't a bad thing, although Moments that task you with hitting bombs can drag when fly balls continuously die at the warning track.
Franchise mode is much the same as before, aside from the addition of an overhauled scouting system. Each week before the draft, you're able to assign three scouts to scout a specific prospect, a single position, or unearth players who aren't even on your draft board yet. Prospect generation is much improved this year. Previously, draft classes included far too many older players, but each draft now contains players in the range of 18 to 23 years old, with most of them erring on the younger side. Scouting a player gives you a rough estimate of their attributes and potential, but you won't know a player's true rating until after you draft and sign them.
This mimics reality to some degree since very few prospects are a sure thing. You could draft the next great superstar or end up with a player who never even steps foot in the majors. The MLB draft slot and signing bonus system have also been added to the game, so even after you've drafted a player you still need to sign them to a deal before the deadline passes, forcing you to consider their interest level and potential signing bonus amount before drafting them. All of this makes the draft a much more exciting proposition, although the same can't be said for Road to the Show, which adds little more than a few new presentational flourishes.
After feeling like the series was treading water for the past couple of years, MLB The Show 23 sees Sony San Diego introduce some significant additions to its baseball sim. Road to the Show has still been neglected, but incremental gameplay improvements slightly enhance the on-field action, and Franchise has received a long-overdue shot in the arm with its expanded scouting system. The new seasonal structure to Diamond Dynasty should also make for a more interesting mode throughout the course of the year, and Storylines: The Negro Leagues is worth the price of admission alone. It may not move the needle in every area, but MLB The Show 23 is another deep sports title that will keep you busy long into October and beyond.
For many, fishing is a serene, relaxing hobby. It's a playful, yet often deadly game, where typically the one holding the rod is in full control. Out on the open seas, this dynamic is often flipped. Manning a trawler for days on end, fighting devastating weather conditions, and drifting away from land for weeks at a time can take a toll on your body and mind. It's these sorts of conditions that Dredge so neatly encapsulates in a handful of smartly designed mechanics, but it's the sinister undertone seeping through every crack that makes its fishing expeditions that much more treacherous.
You begin Dredge arriving at a small fishing hamlet on an ever-so-slightly larger island. The town's mayor is in need of someone to supply its population with fish and loans you a small but capable boat to fulfill that. Fishing is what you'll do most in Dredge given that you'll never get the chance to set foot on land, so it's a blessing that it never feels tedious. Each battle with a creature beneath the crest of the waves plays out as a brief minigame focused on timed button presses. The format of each one changes depending on the class of fish you're trying to catch, but the basic premise and overall difficulty remains the same. Completing each one isn't even required for a successful catch. Instead, your ability in each minigame just speeds up the process, which can come in handy when you're trying to get back to shore before nightfall.
While the wide, sun-kissed ocean is inviting during the 12 hours of daylight you have during each day, it's an entirely different prospect at night. A thick fog settles in over the wide expanse, with your boat's lights often struggling to cut through them effectively for navigation. While out at night, your stress levels rise consistently (indicated by a Sauron-like eye that starts moving more erratically the higher the level goes), and with it, the chance for some surreal occurrences. Rocks that you might have been sure weren't on your path before suddenly appear, damaging your hull and potentially robbing you of some of your current haul. As you press on through the stress, your so-called delusions intensify, with anything from pitch-black ravens with glowing red eyes beginning to circle you to ghostly ships appearing in your periphery and setting themselves on a crash course with your vessel.
Dredge threads the needle of mystery by never explaining these events outright. Each time you dock after a long night out, citizens of the various islands you explore will comment on your tiredness and warn you of the dangers of sailing without sleep. Converse with them more and you'll likely find that everyone knows something strange is happening out on the water, but no one is willing to offer an explanation as to what. Small notes in bottles strewn across the open oceans suggest a past event that might explain the unexplainable occurrences you'll often witness, but even then, there's a delightful amount that's left for you to piece together. Dredge, with its eldritch horror inspirations, predictably doesn't give you a straightforward answer by the end, and also disappointingly saves its most grotesque imagery for the few seconds before credits roll. While its themes are pervasive enough throughout to give Dredge a distinctly Lovecraftian feel, there's no denying that its otherwise suitably vague ending would have been more impactful with a similar level of horror strewn throughout.
It might seem easy enough to just confine all of your fishing to the day time to avoid any unsettling encounters and potential inventory loss, but Dredge's systems are balanced in a way that routinely provokes you to take a risk. Time, for example, doesn't pass when you're stationary, but will rapidly fly by as you move and partake in fishing. It was common for me to try squeezing in one more fishing spot before returning to the harbor, only for one or two mishaps during the timing in the minigame to plunge the world around me into darkness and make the journey back all the more treacherous. Many species of fish are also only available to catch at night, and given their requirement in some quests, you're often given no choice but to brave the fog in search of the right shapes beneath the surface to pluck up and deliver to needy townsfolk. It's also just captivating to see how far you can push your sanity in Dredge at times, admiring how the world around you is twisted underneath oppressive red hues after days without a wink of sleep.
It's easy enough to want to explore the open waters that Dredge has to offer, but it's the adventure encapsulating its vague story that provides most of the impetus to visit its handful of distinct island clusters. You travel to each location in search of five innocuous objects for a shifty stranger, who bestows some mysterious powers upon you and your boat with each new delivery. One lets you add a boost to your boat's engines but elevates your stress level and risks full engine failure the more you use it. Another teleports you right back to the home of the stranger at the expense of even more sanity, although most of the time it was the most effective way of cutting out tedious backtracking. Those two, out of a possible four in total, were the most useful, and rarely seemed as exciting in practice as their sinister source suggested. While it was fun to rip an entire school of fish out of the water with the use of a power, it rarely became something that felt crucial in my repertoire of abilities, eventually fading from memory as I continued with regular fishing instead. It's a disappointing waste of a reward in this sense, making each required trip back to the stranger more menial than exciting.
While the conclusion of each stage of your adventure isn't always mechanically rewarding, each of the quests you undertake makes the journey worth taking. It's thanks in no small part to the variety of locales you visit, from a maze of caverns with a craggy town sprawled across its mountains, to waters laden with torn-apart scientific equipment (due to a monstrous, tentacled creature from the abyss), to an abandoned civilization around a dormant volcano with just a few fanatics left to tell their tales. Dredge's world is layered with these engaging biomes to visit, peppered with a variety of different fish to discover and catch with a host of different fishing rods, reels, and traps. Despite resting on the same underlying mechanics for each, it finds inventive ways of making most of its fetch quests exciting, either through routinely shuffled objectives that challenge you to rethink your equipment and pursue upgrades, or how to effectively survey the waters around you for the right shapes to hunt down.
The process of upgrading your ship is an engrossing one too, with a variety of items to unlock and enhancements to construct. Research points are used to unlock new items at merchants. Rods, reels, and trawling nets all have certain classifications, which determine where they can be used and what fish they can catch, and more expensive ones combine traits. This is important given that only a limited portion of your inventory can be assigned to equipment, with spaces for your boat's lights and engines being given their respective slots, too. Increasing your overall inventory space (which you have to manually rearrange like a small game of Tetris) is done by dredging parts from numerous other shipwrecks and using the parts to improve your vessel. Everything costs money, however, so while you're helping out townsfolk around each new hamlet, you'll need to be balancing that with a healthy supply of income from fishing to continually make progress. It's a satisfying loop that lets you catch a few fish in the early hours of a new day as a set off towards an objective, sometimes turning into full resource runs if you happen upon expensive catches or large deposits of resources that you don't want to risk on a journey back in the dark.
The constant threat of the night and the engaging balance of risk and rewards is ultimately what makes each of the hours spent with Dredge so rewarding. The manifestations of your stressed psyche are intelligently represented by varying degrees of oddities at sea, which instill an appropriate sense of unease that is supported by the uneasiness of all the other characters you meet sprawled across each of the game's wonderfully varied islands. There are instances where its eldritch themes could've been expanded on more, especially when taking into account how the otherworldly powers you're bestowed are the least interesting part of your repertoire. But Dredge does a lot with many small, simple mechanics, all of which coalesce into a satisfying system that makes the horrors of this maritime adventure a thrill to tackle bow-on.
The legendary Shawn Michaels retired from pro wrestling in 1998 after suffering a career-ending back injury at the Royal Rumble. No one expected him to lace up his boots and step back into the ring again, yet the Heartbreak Kid made a triumphant return in 2002, eventually going on to cement his legacy with unforgettable matches against the likes of Triple H, The Undertaker, and Ric Flair. The quality of the second half of Michaels' career ensured that his surprise comeback would be remembered as one of the most spectacular returns in WWE history, and it's one that's echoed in some ways by WWE 2K23. Following the disaster that was 2K20--a game so bad its successor was outright canceled--developer Visual Concepts returned to the squared circle last year with a solid foundation that 2K23 improves upon in a variety of ways, finally putting the long-running series back on form with a surprise comeback Mr. WrestleMania himself would be proud of.
Little has changed since last year's entry from a gameplay perspective. You still alternate between light and heavy strikes to execute various combos; grapple your opponent to hit them with suplexes, DDTs, and spinning neck breakers; and build up meters to gain access to signature moves and flashy match-ending finishers. Some may bemoan that it still doesn't play like No Mercy--an N64 game that many still consider the best wrestling game ever--but the series has never tried to. 2K23 is a solid wrestling sim, with most matches swaying back and forth as momentum shifts via desperate reversals and last-ditch kick-outs.
The improvements Visual Concepts has implemented are subtle, yet prove to be welcome adjustments, successfully banishing some minor annoyances from 2K22. The timing window on reversals, for instance, has been tightened up. Previously, it was a little too easy to turn the tide of a contest thanks to the generous amount of time you were given to nullify an attack. With a shorter window, reversals feel more impactful this year, encouraging you to study your opponent's move set and sharpen your reaction times as a result. This ensures matches are more engaging and also imbues each one with some added tension.
The new pin-break mechanic, where you flick the right stick up to mimic a kick-out, also enhances the in-ring action. It's not a huge, game-changing addition, but nailing the timing of this simple mini-game becomes more challenging later on in matches when your energy is waning, and there's something about imitating the physicality of a wrestler erupting out of a pin that adds to the drama. You can still stick with button-mashing if you'd prefer, but flicking the right stick just makes more sense on a fundamental level.
The other changes to 2K23's action aren't as immediately obvious, but it doesn't take too long to notice how each one has a positive impact. There's a stronger emphasis on stamina in this year's game, with wrestlers slowing down the longer a match lasts. You can perform in-ring springboard attacks as well, and tag teams will work together in the Royal Rumble instead of immediately trying to eliminate each other. The AI has also been tweaked so that each Superstar behaves closer to their real-life counterparts--which means you won't see a giant like Omos flying off the top turnbuckle. You can even access sliders to edit these tendencies yourself--Fire Pro Wrestling style--so those who enjoy running AI vs. AI match-ups should be able to create matches that aren't too far removed from what we see on an episode of Smackdown each week.
The AI, in general, is much improved from last year, as Superstars tend to use their full repertoire this time around, even utilizing possum attacks and leverage pins to get the jump on you. Tag-team AI isn't as busy as it was in 2K22 either. Teammates don't break up submission and pin-fall attempts as frequently as they used to, and you can strike your opponent's teammate when they're standing on the apron to inflict a stun state, so tag matches flow more smoothly. The AI does still have a tendency to throw you outside the ring a little too often, and there are some janky collision issues that will make you miss attacks you really shouldn't, but these are minor inconveniences in the grand scheme of things.
The headline new match type in 2K23 is WarGames, which pits teams of either three or four Superstars against each other inside a cage containing two rings. Teammates enter the cage at alternating intervals, giving one squad a numerical advantage until everyone is in. The match doesn't technically start until every competitor has entered the cage, so much of the drama comes from these shifting power dynamics. There's a risk and reward element also at play, forcing you to consider whether you want to hit your big moves early on or save them until later when pin attempts actually count. WarGames is inherently chaotic in real life, and it's arguably even more so in 2K23, which is part of its unruly charm. It's surprising how well it all works. Even though you're locked inside a cage, the space you're working with is actually fairly large, so you have room to execute your offense, and pin attempts aren't broken up as constantly as they are when a bunch of Superstars are crammed into a single ring. At any one point, you could have a one-on-one match occurring in one ring, two competitors utilizing the space between the rings to inflict some unique offense, while everyone else is involved in an all-out brawl involving tables and chairs, with one Superstar standing on top of the cage, ready to launch themselves onto an unsuspecting foe below.
Showcase mode returns once again, this time putting the spotlight on John Cena's 20-year WWE career. The 16-time world champion gives candid interviews to talk you through some of his greatest matches and rivalries, with you then recreating them by completing various objectives throughout each match as archive footage seamlessly melds with the in-game action. In a neat twist, you don't actually play as Cena, instead taking on the role of some of the Superstars who have defeated him over the years. When someone wins as often as Cena did--to the point where he was practically unbeatable at times--it makes his losses all the more notable, so it's a smart direction for 2K23's Showcase mode. Plus, playing as a different character in each match helps to freshen up the formula.
Unfortunately, it's just not as engaging as it could've been. After Cena's pre-match monologue, there's no follow-up during or after the match to lend each conflict some gravitas or a sense of time and place. Instead of commentary, you're left listening to underwhelming crowd noises and a generic soundtrack that quickly begins to grate. While the transitions between gameplay and real footage are still impressive, there are also a few occasions where you have to sit and watch a match play out for a few minutes at a time. These moments can feel like an eternity, especially when it feels like you could pull off the sequence yourself.
On the flipside, 2K23's MyRise is much improved over last year's offering. This is 2K's take on a career mode, although it would be more accurate to call it a story mode considering losses don't count unless they're part of the narrative. There are two distinct storylines to play through, one for the men and one for the women. If you create a male character, you'll suit up as The Lock, a world-traveled indie wrestler who joins the WWE as "the next big thing." You win the Intercontinental Title in your very first match, but you're also saddled with an awful gimmick by management, so there's some immediate tension. If you create a female Superstar, you're cast as the niece of a fictitious WWE Hall of Famer. Your first match is a bit of a disaster, so you're taken off TV and have to work your way back up, attempting to forge your own path as a second-generation Superstar while emerging from the shadow of your famous aunt.
Both storylines are immersive and a ton of fun, undulating between serious feuds and goofier moments. Occasionally, you also have choices to make that will alter the trajectory of your story and determine which Superstars are willing to align with you in the future. These range from deciding whether or not to use a chair to gain the upper hand or picking which rebooted faction to join: Evolution or The Hurt Business. Much of MyRise is very on the nose and self-referential, and the writing displays a love of wrestling that even extends beyond the all-encompassing bubble that is WWE. Unlike 2K22's offering, this year's game also isn't saddled with an over-reliance on in-game social media to tell its stories. The faux Twitter feed still exists, but it's used sparingly and is essentially a tool for getting you into some side quests and optional challenges. The bulk of the narrative is much more focused, with an overarching storyline and voice acting from the majority of the active roster. If there's one downside, it's that the loading times in MyRise are egregiously long. When you're jumping between matches and fine-tuning your appearance, entrance, move-sets, and so on, be expected to sit through the kinds of lengthy load screens that don't normally exist on PS5.
Universe mode, MyGM, and MyFaction all return this year, too. The former still gives you full creative control to book your own episodes of Raw, Smackdown, and NXT, playing as either a single Superstar or an omnipotent booker who picks and chooses which matches to partake in. Visual Concepts has also added a substantial new feature to 2K23 that lets you choose from dozens of different rivalry actions to take place during each match, from a pre-match sucker punch, post-match kendo stick attack, or tag-team breakdown to a show of sportsmanship or a mid-match distraction from a conniving manager. You can guarantee a specific action will occur or leave it up to a coin toss to add an element of randomness to rivalries. It still doesn't compete with the collusion-fueled antics of the exhaustive story designer last seen in WWE 2K14, but it's a step in the right direction.
MyGM adds the mid-card US and Intercontinental titles this time around so your roster isn't just competing for a single championship. Other than this, it's still the overwhelming mode it was last year, as you draft a roster for your chosen brand, taking into consideration the budget, synergy between different types of wrestlers, and their heel and face alignments. Then you go about constructing a three-match show each week, all with the end goal of earning buckets of money, winning the ratings war, and eventually entering the Hall of Fame by completing various objectives.
There are more General Managers to choose from in 2K23, including both Xavier Woods and Tyler Breeze--so you can recreate their Battle of the Brands rivalry from UpUpDownDown. Each GM has specific Power Cards you can trigger to change the tide of a show by sabotaging a rival or bolstering yourself, perhaps by stealing one of their Superstars or ensuring that a TLC match receives a higher-than-normal rating on your show. There's a fairly robust tutorial, but it still takes a while to wrap your head around how everything works and how best to put on a successful event each week. Fortunately, MyGM is no longer a one-and-done mode. You can opt to carry on playing for multiple seasons--with fresh objectives popping up to keep things interesting--so there's more time to get to grips with how it all works. If you didn't enjoy MyGM last year, the newest iteration isn't likely to sway you, but Visual Concepts clearly took some of the feedback on board to create a more comprehensive and rewarding mode.
If you'd rather focus on simply competing in the squared circle, 2K23's card-based MyFaction is on hand to give you just that, with the caveat that it also wants whatever's in your wallet. Much like the previous iteration, MyFaction revolves around collecting cards, building teams of four, and then taking them into challenge towers, live events, and other challenges against the AI. The difference this year is that you can also fight human opponents for the first time, but this has the side effect of ensuring there will be a race to obtain the best cards. 2K23 doesn't have an online marketplace where you can buy specific cards using an in-game currency like similar modes in the likes of FIFA and Madden; the fastest way to collect new cards is by purchasing packs with real money. You can earn packs, single cards, and in-game money by playing the game, but attaining these rewards is a massive time sink. Considering the most expensive version of 2K23 costs an eye-watering $120, asking you to part with more money to potentially acquire a special card is egregious, even if it's mostly par for the course with these types of modes. It's equally disappointing that gimmick and attire updates are still exclusive to MyFaction when they should really take effect in every mode to better reflect the on-screen product.
These misgivings aside, WWE 2K23 sees the series build on its immediate predecessor and return to form after hitting rock bottom (pun intended) with the infamous 2K20. Almost every mode has been improved--with the exception of Showcase and MyFaction--while the in-ring action is as polished as ever. WarGames is a fun and chaotic new addition, and the likes of Universe, MyGM, and MyRise are endlessly playable to the point where they could keep you busy by the time next year's WrestleMania rolls around.
How do you remake Resident Evil 4, an experience that changed the way action games are made today? It is, at best, an unfair challenge and, at worst, an impossible task. So, instead of trying to reinvent the wheel a second time, developer Capcom has doubled down on the brilliance of the original's design--elaborated on it, and finely tuned the experience. The result is a stunning remake that reminds longtime fans like me of its brilliance, while also introducing an all-new generation to a modern classic and one of the most important games of all time.
If you're not familiar, the premise of Resident Evil 4 is straightforward: Leon S. Kennedy, the cool and handsome rookie-cop-turned-government-agent who you may remember from his escapades in Resident Evil 2's Raccoon City, has been sent to rural Spain to track down Ashley Graham, the US President's missing daughter. Yes, it's a "save the princess" trope but, even 18 years later, its juxtaposition against the survival-horror genre serves as an immaculate setup for the game's over-the-top set pieces. In this case, the princess is in another castle, but it's a castle besieged by parasitic infections and mind-controlled cultists, so you'll have to blast your way from a rundown village to a military island to get her back. While the core pillars of tense, up-close-and-personal action and careful resource management remain welcomingly unchanged, improvements to character development elevate the story as a whole. Now more than ever, Capcom is aware of the tone and humor of the game after it felt accidental in the original. This time, it feels like Capcom is leaning into it, striking a considered balance between heart-pounding horror and laugh-out-loud cheese.
This time, Leon isn't just a cool-looking dude with swoopy hair and a sweet jacket, who says sometimes cool, sometimes corny things, and does super-cool stuff. He's more than that: Now he's a cool dude with cool hair doing cool stuff who also acts like a human being. This is a Leon who carries the trauma of the Raccoon City incident from Resident Evil 2 remake, which gives more weight to his character and serves as compelling context for his motivation to save Ashley Graham. This time around, it's not just another assignment for Leon--it's a chance at redemption for the lives he couldn't save in Raccoon City. This narrative continuity is a strong thread that ties the remakes together with emotional heft, making this new era of the franchise feel stronger and more unified than the originals.
Those concerned this added layer of humanity has changed Leon's iconic action hero cheesiness shouldn't worry, as Leon is still an absolute one-liner cornball. In fact, this aspect of his character has been turned up a notch. Through the chaos of blood-soaked battles where he faces down crowds of the parasite-infected Ganados, Leon still takes the time to toss out memorable one-liners. And it's not just for banter, as these moments are used to ease the nerve-wracking tension of fighting off villagers by cutting through it with some much-needed levity. Narrowly surviving each encounter feels like a relief, but when Leon throws in a casual "bill me for the repairs later" quip after shooting a lantern that erupts into flames, it almost feels defiantly triumphant. The world of Resident Evil 4 is grimy, filth-covered, and horrific, but it's also one where a government agent trying to save the President's daughter says, "Not bad, right?" to himself after suplexing a Ganado so hard its head pops like a water balloon. Capcom managed to take me to the edge of my seat in a desperate fight for survival, only to catch me off-guard and make me laugh with some comical quip. Its ability to repeatedly do this without disrupting the overall tone of the game is one of Resident Evil 4 Remake's crowning achievements.
Facing off against the Ganado is more stress-inducing and terrifying than ever before. Their frenetic movements, unexpected lurches, and vicious attacks have all been intensified, making each encounter a panicked waltz of crowd management while fighting for breathing room and hoping you've got enough ammo and health to get you through the skirmish. You'll often be outnumbered on all sides as they juke and duck out of the way of your aim, fumble over each other to grab you, and push you toward the pitchforks, sickles, and knives wielded by other members of the horde. While the Ganados were similarly tricky in the original game, this time around their movements feel more tangible and weighted, which also makes the potential consequences of being backed into a corner or overwhelmed even more terrifying. Seeing Dr. Salvador, the chainsaw-wielding potato sack-wearing maniac, stomp through the crowd to try and tear Leon apart, resurfacing a fear that repeated playthroughs of Resident Evil 4 had long since dulled.
These scenarios are absolutely heart-pounding and, despite the hair-raising tension, I couldn't get enough of it because combat just feels so damn good. From blasting a wall of enemies with a shotgun, to a quick parry of a stampeding pitchfork-wielding Ganado, to delivering a sweeping roundhouse kick that pushes back a crowd, the Resident Evil 4 remake's action has a kinetic brutality that feels like controlling chaos in the most satisfying way.
Each combat encounter requires constant adaptation and tactical adjustments on the fly. Sometimes the situation calls for running bravely into a crowd of enemies to thrust a knife into a downed cultist before it stands back up as a much deadlier and more erratic creature. Others require a little creativity, like sticking a well-placed remote mine next to a crowd of enemies before switching to a shotgun to eliminate an enemy's wooden shield and then watching everyone go boom. Either way, there's a playground-like nature to combat in which you can manipulate the enemy's movements to your advantage, such as luring an enemy into their own bear trap or parrying a Molotov cocktail back at someone, engulfing a crowd in flames. It all feels punchy, visceral, and badass to pull off. This was the case with the original, but it is further amplified in the remake thanks to a greater variety of enemies--some of which are entirely new--while other returning ones have been reimagined in terrifying new ways. Without spoiling too much, some enemies now change the dynamic of how crowds act, often pulling the rug out from under my feet just as I had become comfortable in combat, forcing me to contend with a whole new level of stress.
Leon has, of course, been given more versatility to take on the more capable and deadly Ganados. Fundamentally, the absence of tank controls means he's much easier to control in the heat of battle, but now he also has the ability to utilize stealth and his trusty knife-fighting skills. Knives now have durability (a carryover from Resident Evil 2 Remake), with each use slightly damaging it. Knives can now be used to parry nearly every attack by hitting a button just as an enemy strikes, and to instantly break free when being grabbed. These new additions elevate the tango of violence when dealing with a crowd of enemies by creating a sense of momentum. Each fight can quickly become a dance of maneuvering weapons, managing resources, and executing parries. And being able to cycle back and forth between these actions in quick succession makes it feel like you're fighting as hard to survive as the Ganados are to kill you. If your trusty knife breaks, you'll have to scavenge for inferior knives that are considerably less durable until you can repair yours. And even then, you'll need to have the space to store them in your attache case. Naturally, resource management is once again a major pillar of the Resident Evil 4 remake, as is the fiendishly compelling meta-game of organizing the contents of your case to fit together herbs, gunpowder, weapons, and crafting resources like tetrominoes. For those that would rather skip this, you can also hit a button to have everything automatically arrange itself.
Resident Evil 4 Remake is full of smart quality-of-life changes that build on what the original revolutionized, with the strongest example of this being the change in combat capabilities for Ashley Graham. Thankfully, Ashley no longer has a health bar for you to manage with your own resources as you escort her. Instead, when Ashley is injured, she'll become incapacitated, forcing you to juke around enemies in order to get to her and bring her back to her feet. This is much less punishing on the player than outright failure but maintains the tension of the cooperative dynamic by forcing you to suddenly shift priorities to save her, while also ensuring enemies don't carry her away by taking them out. While the original game made it very easy (comically so, at times) to trivialize this aspect of gameplay by ordering Ashley to hide in garbage cans while you dealt with crowds of foes, this time around, hiding spots are few and far between. That's a welcome change, as it makes protecting her much more ingrained into combat, while avoiding the feeling that she's just an object you have to keep safe, which often came off as dehumanizing in the original.
Like Leon, Ashley Graham is more fleshed-out and believable. She retains that 20-year-old sensibility and reacts as such, screaming in horror and shock at the sight of a parasite erupting from a cultist's head, but it's never overstated. Resident Evil 4 has struck a nice balance of allowing Leon and Ashley to communicate from time to time without overstaying its welcome and falling into the protagonist-who-talks-too-much trend that has become prevalent in games in recent years. Instead, they'll check in on one another after fights to ask if they're doing alright. Ashley will compliment Leon with a, "Wow, that was a nice shot" after you pop the head of a cultist with a sniper rifle. There are little extra added conversations that allow the friendship between them to develop, but it never distracts from the core of the gameplay or undermines the tension of the game.
Across the board, characters are no longer the one-note plot devices they were in the original. Luis Serra, for example, is given a little extra screen time that better establishes his stakes in the overarching plot. And don't worry: Like Leon, his suave charm and "hey, gotta smoke" quips remain intact. He's still a leather jacket-wearing lady killer who slings one-liners and wields pistols like he's a cowboy out of a spaghetti western. Even Krauser, the '80s action movie archetypal antagonist who seemed to walk right out of movies like Commando, feels more well-rounded thanks to further context around his stakes and presence in the narrative.
Some characters, however, have been given more flavor than depth--specifically the Merchant. His iconic voice has changed, but this is a new version of the Merchant who is iconic in his own right and stands as one of the most memorable characters in the franchise, despite only being a walking and talking pawn shop. He remains a mysterious figure you'll find throughout the world, but now with a few extra lines in his arsenal that you'll be saying as much as you said, "What're ya buyin'?"--I've been repeating, "Remember, fun rhymes with gun for a reason!" to myself non-stop.
When you're not covering yourself "with the stench of battle," as the Merchant likes to say, you'll have the opportunity to go off the beaten path to track down treasure, as well as complete requests that the Merchant has placed around the environment for you to find. Some are scavenger hunts like finding a gold chicken egg, while others entail hunting down fiercer and more unruly enemies that require a little backtracking to get to. In exchange for completing these requests, you'll receive spinel gems that you can trade for treasure maps, special item upgrades, and more resources.
The requests create more incentive to explore the world but never interrupt the flow and pacing of the game, as they often lead you back down familiar paths with newly gained items like special keys to unlock cabinets and devices that hold treasure. These side missions don't feel like chores or checklists to complete, as the requests are naturally paced along with the game's narrative and given a little story flavor to ground them in the world. I welcomed them, as they only prolonged my chance to wander around in a world I love spending time in, even if that meant trudging through decrepit villages or the fog-covered floors of a gothic horror castle again.
Even as Leon's mission takes him to some of the less visually interesting areas in the latter chapters of the game (a carryover from the original Resident Evil 4), the remake still manages to retain a remarkable balance of bombastic action intensity and nail-biting combat scenarios. Where the original game started to lose its steam, the remake manages to keep the experience on track by considerably changing what I had come to know so well from the original. Some sections of the original game have been honed, trimmed down, and reorganized to fit better into the flow and also within the environment. The first encounter with the blind, giant-blade-wielding Garrador, for example, has been better contextualized to fit in the torturous depths of the castle. As a result, the scene is even scarier and more stressful than before--it all feels turned up to 11.
There are also returning boss fights, some of which are slightly tweaked, while others have received a welcome, more significant overhaul. For nearly all of them, I had a smile plastered across my face despite the dozens of times I've faced them in the past. I applauded when I was caught off-guard by new additions and audibly cheered when I found some of Leon's most iconic lines were still in the game alongside new ones I'll be repeating for years to come. There's a remarkably judicious approach to respecting what Resident Evil 4 was by preserving vital elements of the original, and realizing the potential of what it can be by introducing new ones.
On the other hand, some sections have been cut entirely, but it is evident that this has been done with careful consideration and a deft touch. For everything taken out of the game, something new has been introduced to take its place. Capcom has clearly paid close attention to how these decisions impact Resident Evil 4's masterful pacing, and the delicate balance of combat, exploration, and some additional puzzle-solving that's light and approachable.
Writing this review has involved putting the controller down and stepping away from playing the Resident Evil 4 remake, and as hyperbolic as it sounds, that is much easier said than done. At the time of writing, I have finished the campaign, started a New Game+ on Hardcore, and also begun an additional playthrough on Professional mode, and I know this is only the beginning of many more playthroughs to come.
Resident Evil 4 remake is the re-envisioning I wanted, but also not the one I expected to get. As a Resident Evil 4 purist, I feared that messing with the magic of an all-time classic would spell disaster. Instead, the Resident Evil 4 remake deviates from the original in many significant ways, but never compromises anything that made it revolutionary. It preserves that, recontextualizes it, and rejuvenates it in a game that is designed to keep veteran players constantly on edge, toying with what they remember to create fear through subversion. Although I have an intimate knowledge of the original game, the slight tweaks and unexpected additions kept me from ever reaching a comfort zone--I was never fully at ease, even with my knowledge of the original game. Capcom's strategy of using my knowledge of the original against me was a huge success. I won't not go into details, and some of these moments are more subtle than others, but every one of them felt clever and considered.
Capcom has masterfully created a new version of a beloved game and continues to blaze a trail with its Resident Evil remakes. Like the Resident Evil 2 remake before it, the studio has used advancements in technology and design to modernize an iconic survival-horror and action game by placing emphasis on capturing the spirit of the original, and respectfully evoking the same sense of atmosphere and tone that the original developers aspired to. At the same time, it empowers the player with thrilling new mechanics and places challenges in their way to test their mastery of them. In that respect, the remake stands as a re-envisioning of its past rather than a replication of it. In doing this, it raises the bar for what a good remake is and at the same time, preserves Resident Evil 4's legacy as a genre-defining experience and one of the greatest games of all time.
Bayonetta Origins is an achievement, both within the Bayonetta series and games as a whole. It is proof the rules and limitations placed on certain, big budget series are made to be broken--especially when you can do it with this much creativity and tact. The charming adventure-puzzler is also just delightful to play, and is far more than what it appears on the surface. As its story unfolds, it slowly builds into a recognizably Bayonetta game--one filled with excitement, darkness, subversions, and feminine liberation--all while maintaining an identity all its own. All this combined with a touching tale of companionship and maternal love--that may or may not have made me cry a lot--makes for a game I urge you not to overlook whether or not you're a fan of the Bayonetta games.
Set long before Cereza steps into the souped-up shoes of Bayonetta, Origins is best described as a "coming-of-half-lumen-sage" story. After witnessing her mother's imprisonment due to a forbidden romance with Cereza's father, the young girl is forced to seek refuge under the tutelage of a powerful witch who lives on the outskirts of the forbidden Avalon forest. Her teacher is firm-yet-kind--clearly intended to show in part where Bayonetta's cool demeanor comes from--but is often frustrated by Cereza's cowardice. As such, when a spirit visits Cereza and tells her that the courage she needs to become a proper witch and rescue her mother lies deep in Avalon, the young witch quickly sets off in search of it.
In Bayonetta Origins, you control both Cereza and Cheshire simultaneously, with all of Cereza's controls assigned to the left JoyCon while all of Cheshire's are located on the right. Similar to any Hazelight production (It Takes Two, A Way Out, Brothers: A Tale Of Two Sons), the game is filled with asymmetrical puzzles that require you to explore your environment and use both characters' various talents to progress. For Cereza, this means using her magic to bring helpful plants to life and stun enemies, as well as taking advantage of her small frame to cross vines. Cheshire, on the other hand, utilizes his brute strength, large size, and elemental powers he slowly unlocks to blaze ahead. When Cheshire can't cross a particular area, Cereza steps in to create a path. When Cereza can't reach a high ledge, Cheshire allows himself to shrink down into his stuffed animal form and be tossed to the once inaccessible ledge. While not particularly difficult, the puzzles are well-balanced, interesting, and continuously build in small ways, properly preparing you for what line of thinking the next obstacle might require.
With this style of gameplay and the nature of the controls, there were a few instances where I felt my wires get a bit crossed and I'd accidentally move Cheshire rather than Cereza or vice versa. Thankfully the consequences for this are never dire and I found that as I progressed these mix ups happened less and less. Considering all the actions you can take as both members of the demonic duo--the game's skill tree is quite dense--the mapping is actually incredibly intuitive, and makes for the smoothest and most exciting single-button combat I've seen executed in a game.
A large reason why the game's combat is as satisfying as it is is because of how the puzzle aspect of the game also extends to your encounters. The vast majority of enemies you square off against require either Cheshire's elemental abilities or Cereza's magic--which takes shape as a sort of small-scale rhythm game--to make them vulnerable to attack. This makes battles--and particularly the challenging Tir na nOgs stages, which feel somewhat like more combat-oriented Breath of the Wild shrines--require quick thinking and careful coordination on the players' part. To make matters more exciting, as enemy types and the number of waves you face off against expand, so does the feeling that you truly are playing an action-packed Bayonetta game--albeit very different from what's come before.
That said, players might find that Bayonetta Origins' combat is where the aforementioned crossed wires problem tends to happen the most--and is the most frustrating. While I found the technique of frequently recalling Cheshire in order to narrow my attention to one character to control, the bulk of the time you need to be playing as both, which can result in some fairly inelegant gameplay at times. Additionally, this complexity can feel a bit at odds with the light-hearted and inviting nature of the game. Though the game's story and world make this an easy recommendation for younger players, the controls could make the experience a bit of a struggle.
This feeling continues to grow the further you progress in the game. While I won't delve into spoiler territory--frankly the game's story and callbacks are too special to want to ruin them--it impressed me how much Bayonetta Origins begins in one place and lightly dances towards another we are more familiar with. Thankfully, however, crossing this bridge does not correlate to a change in tone. I was worried as Cereza grew more competent and confident the game might force sexuality on the young girl and rob the game of its childlike wonder. I can assure you it does not, but rather allows Cereza to be a child discovering her strength and confidence in different ways before delving into the world of guns and leather.
And aside from the sheer inappropriateness that would have accompanied that tonal shift, Bayonetta Origins is so charming I didn't want to watch it contort itself into something more familiar--I wanted to savor every second of this game that felt too unique to exist as a part of the Bayonetta series. And sure, there are aspects that overlap and portions of the game that connect Bayonetta Origins to the mainline trilogy in necessary ways, but its focus, direction, and the confidence it exudes in both, never change.
Though previous Bayonetta games also divided their narratives into chapters, the chapters in Bayonetta Origins are far more literal, as the story is told as if it is a children's book. A tender, matronly woman narrates the tale, adding in unique voices for certain characters, such as the ever-grumpy Cheshire, while illustrations fade in and out on the weathered pages. The game as a whole has a whimsical, painterly quality to it that perfectly suits its sense of wonder, and uses color and camera angles to create spectacles that add a bit of grandeur and magic to the intimate experience. Though the Nintendo Switch might not be able to keep up with its fellow current gen consoles graphically, Bayonetta Origins is a great example of how developers can combat that by focusing on artistry rather than fidelity. It is important to note, though, that the game's more free-flowing art style looks much sharper in portable mode.
However, all of this pales into how sweet and affecting the Bayonetta Origins narrative is. For years now, the games industry has called for games to showcase motherhood, and this game is absolutely Platinum Games' triumphant attempt to satiate that need. Additionally, Cereza is every bit as charismatic as the older version of herself in this game. Her lines are delivered with sincerity, youthful joy, and emotion, and her moral compass and strength make her easy to love. Both Cereza and Cheshire bounce between cheeky and reluctantly compassionate with ease and pure adorableness, and it makes for a delightful dynamic that evolves into a truly special relationship. While some folks who raised eyes at Bayonetta 3's story might be wary at the direction Bayonetta Origins seems to be going in at its start, hang in there--you'll be pleasantly surprised.
Bayonetta Origins: Cereza and The Lost Demon is a testament to thinking outside the box. While I don't suspect Platinum Games will pivot to this new style of gameplay and storytelling in future Bayonetta games in the same way Breath of the Wild or God of War (2018) shifted the direction of their respective franchises, I cannot help but be thankful that the studio trusted the vision of its team enough to create this experience. Though with how fantastic every aspect of the game is, I understand why the developer did.
With Destiny 2: The Witch Queen and its assorted seasons in the rearview mirror, 2023's Lightfall expansion has some big shoes to fill. Improved storytelling, new gameplay modes, and the ensuing seasonal content made The Witch Queen expansion a standout experience, and Lightfall doesn't manage to reach the high bar it set. Destiny 2's latest add-on introduces major gameplay tweaks, an exciting new subclass to play around with, and plenty of fresh Exotic gear for your arsenal, but this is overshadowed by a disappointing campaign and a lifeless Neptunian destination that make for an underwhelming combination.
Lightfall doesn't waste any time setting the stage, taking place shortly after the devastating events of Season of the Seraph. After a quick slideshow narrated by the silky-smooth voice of Lance Reddick's Commander Zavala brings everyone up to speed, it's all hands on deck as the Witness finally makes its long-awaited arrival in the Solar system to battle the Traveler. From the opening mission, the action unfolds at a breakneck pace, as a new Shadow Legion of Cabal led by a reborn Calus set a course for Neptune, and you're hitching a ride alongside them in an effort to prevent a doomsday scenario from occurring.
Bungie has spoken several times about adopting an '80s action movie vibe for Lightfall, and that influence is felt everywhere on Neptune's primary location, Neomuna. From a city bathed in neon lights and a training montage as you master your new powers, to the introduction of a cast of characters that include analogs of loose cannon space-cops, maverick rookies, and grizzled veterans just one week away from retirement, Lightfall wears its not-so-subtle inspirations proudly.
However, at the same time, the campaign has the depth of a direct-to-VHS action flick. The story is frustratingly vague as you chase down a paracausal MacGuffin, encounter slightly upgraded space rhinos, and grapple with emotional moments that feel hollow and unearned. Lightfall has an exhilarating start, but by the time you've experienced all eight of its campaign missions, it feels more like the unsatisfying storytelling of vanilla Destiny than a memorable '80s action picture. After nine years of being promised answers and chasing every lead imaginable, Lightfall essentially passes the buck to the rest of this year's seasonal content and 2024's The Final Shape.
Much of the story is focused on The Veil, an object of immense power that you chase throughout the campaign, and is said to be the most important artifact in the universe. However, the reasons for this aren't explained. Calus, who has become the newest Disciple of the Witness, is as grandiose as ever and now resembles a Pacific Rim kaiju decked out in armored kitchen appliances. Despite all this, ultimately he's nothing more than a hedonistic bullet sponge who falls far below The Witch Queen's Savathun, the gold standard for great villains in Bungie's sci-fi sandbox. After being built up as Destiny 2’s next major threat throughout Season of the Haunted, Calus is unfortunately treated like an expendable henchman serving the Witness instead of the grandiose conqueror that fans had come to know, love, and loathe over the years.
Legendary mode, which dials up the challenge considerably, is a recipe for sweaty palms and victories that feel hard-earned as you overcome seemingly impossible odds. The new gameplay tweaks and mechanics introduced in Lightfall pair well with the Legendary campaign, which have several exhilarating moments that can easily slot into a highlight reel. From a dramatic escape through Calus' flagship to taking part in a Cabal civil war that throws everything and the cosmic kitchen sink at you, Lightfall's campaign is mechanically a fun gauntlet to charge through as you master Strand--even if the narrative drops the ball frequently.
Your new Darkness subclass, Strand, is introduced without much fanfare, frequently appearing in the campaign as a major source of power that's barely elaborated on. While 2020's Beyond Light expansion made unlocking the Stasis subclass aggravating, the manner in which the first Darkness subclass was introduced at least felt like a meaningful moment for Destiny 2. But in Lightfall, Strand hits the scene after you poke around a random interdimensional wormhole, is barely elaborated on, and is primarily a set of reality-unraveling training wheels that you're given control of periodically throughout the campaign until you unlock it full after afterward.
At least the quests surrounding Lightfall's campaign do a better job of fleshing out the expansion and providing solid reasons for you to go pick a fight with time-traveling murder machines. Destiny veterans will be used to this grind, but between new missions to claim the latest Exotics and the weekly Season of Defiance storyline--which is technically not part of Lightfall itself--the story told here is far more gripping and cohesive.
Neomuna, the new patrol zone where you'll master the art of Strand, is a beautiful but desolate location to explore. Thanks to the populace being conveniently placed into cryosleep and their minds uploaded into Neomuna's cloud servers, the secret city that survived humanity's first Golden Age cataclysm is pretty to look at but has a desolate theme to its design, despite it being positioned as an extravagant metropolis built by humanity's Golden Age explorers. It's a location that lacks the magic that made Savathun's Throne World or Beyond Light's Europa such standout locations. It has all the usual trappings of a Destiny location, from lost sectors to the new Terminal Overload public activity, but but its neon-lit facade can't hide a lifeless design that's mostly populated by familiar public events and patrols that rarely deviate from the established formula that Destiny 2 has been using since 2017.
Put simply, Neomuna just doesn't have the X-factor needed to make it an engaging location to explore. Thankfully, however, the actual structure of Lightfall's missions makes good use of the city to provide intense missions that'll have you on the edge of your seat.
As for using Strand, this new Darkness subclass succeeds in shaking up the Destiny sandbox with its unique set of powers for each Guardian class. Titan Berserkers rend through enemies with frenzied claws, Warlock Broodweavers unleash a small army of threadlings to do their lethal bidding, and Hunter Threadrunners combine elegant Silkstrike attacks with graceful agility. Like Stasis and the reworked Light 3.0 subclasses, Strand also benefits from a system of Aspects and Fragments that are gradually unlocked after you finish the main campaign.
So far, there have been some tantalizing builds to experiment with, and combined with the right Exotic, seasonal Artifact mods, and armor mods, Strand positions itself as an incredibly powerful tool for destroying cannon fodder enemies and weakening larger foes. With my main Warlock, I've set loose armies of threadlings while wiping out entire mobs of foes in one almighty blast, using Strand's Suspend and Sever debuffs to stay alive and shrug off enemy fire.
The key appeal of this new subclass is its grapple feature, an ability that replaces your grenade with the option to latch onto mystical anchor points no matter where you are and swing into action. If you're prepared to sacrifice one of your key explosive powers, the Strand grapple is a fun addition to Destiny 2 that has plenty of utility, allowing you to grapple straight into enemies before you unleash a special melee attack, or if you're feeling brave enough, hitch a ride on a Titan using their Thundercrash Super right before they yeet the enemies in front of them into oblivion.
Opposing Guardians are the Tormentors, deadly adversaries who shake up the flow of combat with their unrelenting might and ability to seal your powers if they get too close. Tormentors have a response to every attack that you throw at them and learning how to cut them down to size is a refreshing challenge to take on.
Destiny 2's core gameplay still feels as polished as ever, and in typical Bungie tradition, when a major expansion arrives, hundreds of quality-of-life changes have further refined the moment-to-moment gunplay. The developer has been releasing exhaustive breakdowns on these changes, which range from granular tweaks and the introduction of new systems designed to bring new players to the worlds of Destiny 2, to a completely overhauled buildcrafting system and the highly requested inclusion of character loadouts.
For longtime players, the armor mod system is one of the most drastic changes to player investment. Gone are the days of transmatting into Ada-1's workshop to see if she has that one mod that you've been looking for, as Bungie has introduced a new suite of mods that can work on their respective armor pieces regardless of type affinity. This is Bungie pressing the reset key on loadouts built up over years of previous expansions and seasons, creating an even playing field for players of all skill levels to experiment with as they create their perfect Guardian build.
The armor mods mechanic has also adopted a few ideas from the transmog system, creating a more intuitive menu for you to slot mods in and quickly preview your build before you commit to it. Jettisoning clunky menus and making good use of a revamped seasonal artifact means you can get into fighting shape much more quickly. That simplicity makes Destiny 2 more inviting, and with the option to save and switch between several loadouts instantly, Lightfall's gameplay enhancements create an exciting foundation for Bungie to build upon through this year's seasonal content.
Guardian Ranks are another positive step forward, creating a defined journey forward for seasoned players and kinderguardians alike. This replacement for the Triumphs page essentially gives you an optional, more linear path forward to experience everything that Destiny 2 has to offer, ranging from campaigns to established PvE activities, Gambit, and PvP. Veteran players will automatically get a high ranking on this system, and working your way up to the truly impressive Guardian rank of 11 requires not only skill in every facet of the game, but recognition of your contributions toward making the experience better for other players as well.
Destiny 2's Lightfall expansion doesn't make a good first impression, but beneath a threadbare story that relies on an exasperatingly fuzzy motivation for your Guardian, it still feels mechanically satisfying to dive into. Comparing it to the standard of excellence that 2022's The Witch Queen saga established only exposes the numerous shortcomings of Lightfall, and that's a shadow that the next year of seasonal content will need to step out of if Bungie wants to develop the expansion into something more than a middle-of-road entry that stumbles toward a final showdown that has been a decade in the making.
I loved Dead Cells, but it never struck me as particularly Castlevania-like. The acclaimed action roguelike from Motion Twin certainly had some passing resemblance in some of its combat mechanics, but not so much that I ever made any association to Konami's vampire-hunting franchise. So when the studio announced it was making an expansion modeled after Castlevania, I was certainly intrigued, but also surprised. How would that work, exactly? Pretty well, it turns out, as Dead Cells: Return to Castlevania is a clever fusion of Castlevania homages and Dead Cells' structure, and helps to illustrate how Castlevania DNA has been a part of Dead Cells all along.
The similarities between the two are cut into stark relief by their differences. Castlevania, and especially the Symphony of the Night sub-genre that serves as the basis for most of this expansion, is an exploration-based action game, with a castle full of tightly-knit secrets and clockwork-like precision to its progression gating. Dead Cells very much isn't that, as its roguelike biomes mix and match different pieces like Lego bricks. You'll recognize certain pieces after you've played it enough, but it will always be impossible to draw a consistent map or to tell a friend exactly where to find a secret key. In this regard, they couldn't be more different.
So the blending in Return to Castlevania can best be described as Dead Cells doing its best Castlevania impression. The Castlevania biomes are still randomized in the roguelike style, but the pieces do feel more oriented around puzzle-solving and secrets than in the main Dead Cells game. In fact, that's one of Return to Castlevania's most impressive tricks--it's still built around interlocking pieces, but the more secret-solving components don't feel contained to small, individual parts. It's almost as if the game is building a fresh, albeit relatively small, Castlevania map every time you respawn.
The most recognizable homages, though, come in the form of new enemies and weapons. Those enemies range from the lowly Fish Man to hulking armored knights and, naturally, a confrontation with Dracula himself. You'll almost immediately find renowned sub-weapons like the Cross and Holy Water while making your way through the castle, and once you've unlocked them, they'll be available for upgrading with modifiers, like any other piece of equipment in Dead Cells. Seeing combat against familiar enemies with recognizable weapons really drives home how Dead Cells' remarkably satisfying combat has always felt like the best moments of Castlevania.
The story is slight, consisting mostly of characters like Richter or Alucard showing up for a quick chat about where to find Dracula, but it's serviceable and helps point you in the right direction. The spirit is playful, with the Prisoner shrugging and thumbs-upping his way through this wild new adventure full of video game royalty. A few story moments reward you with powerful new primary weapons or skins modeled after Castlevania heroes, and wearing these skins even leads to certain characters recognizing and talking to you as if you were, say, Simon Belmont.
Some of the best cinematic moments aren't story-related at all, but rather when you stumble upon some hyper-specific Easter egg referencing a moment in Castlevania history. At one point I sat and watched the ghostly dancers twirl around the screen for minutes, hypnotized, before eventually realizing the scene would go on forever if I let it.
This being Dead Cells, it's also remarkably tough. Dead Cells was already known for its challenge, and Return to Castlevania felt slightly more difficult than the main campaign. That means it's ideally suited for experienced Prisoners seeking a new challenge, but it doesn't need to be relegated to endgame content. That's because the Castlevania content itself gives you such a steady stream of powerful new equipment that you don't necessarily need to wait for the stars to align with a run that gives you a good build.
The fresh batch of weapons is also inventive in new ways that both fit within the Dead Cells milieu while also feeling iconically Castlevania. The weapon you get for defeating Death, for example, creates an electrifying rush to combat, encouraging you to pick off weaker enemies to empower you against stronger enemies.
All of this makes Return to Castlevania an excellent little taste of Castlevania within the framework of Dead Cells, but it's only a taste. This is an expansion, after all, so it adds a few new biomes that, all put together, would make up only a fraction of the map space of a typical Castlevania game. It's also mostly straightforward, rather than requiring the traditional backtracking to open new paths with additional powers. The expansive scope of a sprawling environment is part of Castlevania's core identity, so its absence is a reminder that this is still Dead Cells with a Castlevania flavor. Depending on your luck and skill level, it will take a few hours to explore the content and reach Dracula, and probably a couple more to find and unlock all of the new gear.
It's also a Dead Cells expansion in that there are no easy shortcuts. This is a roguelike, after all, so even once you know the secret to finding Dracula's inner sanctum, it will take a good bit of legwork to get there. If you die--for example, against the challenging final battle with Dracula--you'll need to do it all again.
Those qualities are part and parcel of this being an expansion to Dead Cells. It retains its own core identity, so the smaller randomized biomes and lack of shortcuts are just part of its nature. Those don't feel especially reminiscent of Castlevania, but the whole expansion is imbued with Castlevania flavor. Dead Cells: Return to Castlevania is a smart, frenetic fusion of a modern action-roguelike and classic gaming royalty.
The first boss fight in Wo Long: Fallen Dynasty is right up there with the toughest first bosses in video game history. This opening battle pits you against Zhang Liang of the Yellow Turbans, as you clash in a kinetic two-phase fight to the death. It's an intense skill check that challenges your prowess of Wo Long's mechanics almost immediately. In many ways, it feels like a rite of passage for the rest of the game and a bold statement of intent from developer Team Ninja. I initially loved how it forced me to adapt to the demands of the game's particular brand of Souls-like combat, yet the further I progressed, the more this feeling dissipated as I realized that this introductory struggle was little more than an unbalanced outlier, providing a much sterner test than the bosses following it.
For many, this sudden difficulty spike will be a barrier to entry, halting progress a mere 10 minutes into the game. It's a shame Wo Long begins with such a sturdy roadblock, not least because this initial undertaking isn't indicative of the rest of the game moving forward. In fact, outside of this first boss, Team Ninja has crafted one of the more approachable Souls-likes in what is a traditionally challenging genre.
I didn't encounter another boss fight on par with Zhang Liang's difficulty until roughly 15 hours into Wo Long's campaign. Most of the bosses in between were a relative cakewalk, to the point where I was able to cut down each one on my first attempt--usually in under a minute. I still had fun dispatching every single one, but the ease with which I was able to do so makes them lose some of their luster and reinforces the notion that the first boss is at odds with the rest of the game. The battle with Zhang Liang sets up expectations that never come to fruition, particularly when other fights allow you to summon help from either AI or human teammates.
Team Ninja has experience developing difficult games, of course, with the likes of Ninja Gaiden and Nioh under its belt. Elements of both those games are present in Wo Long, yet its combat feels like a streamlined offshoot of From Software's Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, putting an emphasis on deflecting attacks and breaking your opponent's stance. I say it's streamlined because while enemies frequently unleash powerful unblockable attacks, you only need to deflect them by nailing the timing of a single button press. There aren't any sweep or grab attacks requiring different techniques to counter and avoid, so it doesn't have the same kind of depth. The timing window to deflect is relatively generous, and these attacks--known as Critical Blows--are clearly telegraphed, so it doesn't take long before you're misdirecting strikes left, right, and center. The challenge comes from being able to recognize which attack is coming and knowing when to time the deflection so you're not too early or too late. You can block regular physical attacks and dodge out of danger as well, but mastering the deflect mechanic is the optimal way to succeed. Plus, nothing beats the satisfaction of parrying an incoming blow and seeing the sparks fly as steel collides with steel.
Wo Long doesn't utilize a traditional stamina system to rein you in. Instead, you have a Spirit gauge that either decreases or increases depending on your actions. You can build it by striking enemies and deflecting their attacks, then consume this positive Spirit to increase the power of your offense. Actions like dodging, mistiming deflections, performing weapon-specific special moves, and casting Wizardry Spells all decrease your Spirit, as does sustaining damage from an enemy attack. If your Spirit is in the negative and you take a hit that pushes the gauge to the lower limit, you become defenseless for a short period of time. This creates a balancing act where you want to build up enough positive Spirit to make full use of your repertoire without succumbing to this staggered state.
Crucially, each enemy you fight also has a Spirit gauge of its own, so skirmishes often focus on whittling down your foe's defenses as opposed to concentrating squarely on damaging their health bar. You can lower the enemy's Spirit by simply attacking them, but utilizing special moves and deflections--parrying Critical Blows, in particular--will significantly deplete it. Once their Spirit gauge hits the lower limit, they'll enter a stunned state, giving you ample opportunity to unleash a devastating Fatal Strike that wipes out a chunk of their health. The variety of different enemy types you'll face doesn't make this easy, especially when you're dealing with multiple opponents at the same time, but Wo Long's learning curve isn't particularly steep. Once it all clicks, combat falls into this thrilling back-and-forth groove built around stylish deflections and quick bursts of over-the-top violence, and Team Ninja has also implemented a number of other considerations to ease players in.
You have a double jump at your disposal, which lends the game a sense of mobility reminiscent of Ryu Hayabusa's exploits in Ninja Gaiden. There's a high degree of verticality present in the level design to account for this, encouraging you to leap onto rooftops and guard towers to survey the battlefield from up high. From here, you can perform a lunging strike to significantly damage an unaware enemy, while stealth attacks serve a similar purpose when your feet are planted on the ground. Both techniques allow you to dispatch a number of enemies before they even have a chance to strike back, so you don't always have to confront each foe mano a mano. This incentivizes you to pay attention to your surroundings as there's usually a way to get the drop on any unsuspecting assailants if you look hard enough.
There are more subtle ways Wo Long softens the experience compared to other Souls-likes as well. Battle Flags, which are this game's equivalent of bonfires, replenish all of your health and healing items the first time you find them, without requiring you to sit down and rest. This means you can get topped back up and carry on without respawning all of the enemies you just killed, thus making exploration a tad more inviting. When you do die, you only lose half of the experience points you accumulated up to that point. You can still earn it all back by killing the enemy that bested you, but only losing half instead of the full amount prevents it from feeling like you're starting back at square one every time you die. These two examples might not sound like much, but they have a palpable impact on Wo Long's difficulty by deftly scaling back on some of the genre's more vexing idiosyncrasies.
However, it's the inclusion of near-constant AI companions that does the most to ease up on the usual challenge. Wo Long puts a dark fantasy spin on the Three Kingdoms era of Chinese history. Similar to how Nioh drew on its historical Japanese setting and relevant mythology, Wo Long weaves Chinese mythology and fantasy elements into its interpretation of this popular period in China's history. As a result, you'll fight alongside the likes of Cao Cao, Liu Bei, and others, with one or two NPC fighters joining you depending on where they fit in the story. You can still dismiss these legendary warriors if you want to go it alone, and you're also able to summon up to two allies if you start a level without any. The AI doesn't tend to dish out too much damage, however, and it has a habit of getting stuck on scenery. It has its uses, though, usually by keeping enemies busy and ensuring that you're not overwhelmed when fighting groups of foes. You can also replace these NPCs with friends if you'd prefer to play the whole game in co-op, with the game's difficulty scaling up to compensate. Or you can summon random players to help you take down a tricky boss or section, so there are plenty of options for those seeking assistance.
The levels themselves aren't quite as sprawling as those found in the Nioh series. The game is still split up into distinct levels, with optional sub-battles unlocking throughout the campaign. These bite-sized stages send you back to previously visited locations where you'll clear a few rooms, face off against waves of enemies, or take on a boss. Sub-battles don't usually take very long to complete, and you're rewarded with loot and XP so they're worth doing. In terms of level design, rather than featuring long-winded detours that circle back on themselves, most of Wo Long's branching paths lead to dead ends with higher-level enemies and more loot. It's a tad disappointing that it doesn't regularly tap into the sense of both relief and wonderment you get from looping paths, but Team Ninja has opted for a different approach to exploration that feels fresh.
Both you and every opponent you face has a Morale Rank that indicates their strength in battle. Simply defeating enemies will raise this rank, but it shoots up quicker if you kill an enemy with a higher Morale Rank than yourself. Wo Long still has a traditional progression system where you spend XP to level up stats like health and damage; the Morale Rank is there to indicate how your strength compares to the enemies you're fighting in a single level. It resets to zero at the beginning of each stage, so you tend to find lower-level enemies when you first arrive at a location. This isn't always the case, though. One path might contain an imposing figure with a significantly higher Morale Rank than yourself. You can still defeat these enemies, but it's a dicey proposition, as one wrong move is usually more than enough to kill you. It depends on whether you want to take the risk for the chance of being rewarded with a significant boost of your own Morale Rank.
When you die, your Morale Rank decreases, but it will never drop below your Fortitude Rank. This separate but intertwined ranking can be increased by raising Battle Flags and Marking Flags. The latter don't function as checkpoints like Battle Flags do, but there are usually half a dozen or so dotted around each level, all with the express purpose of raising your Fortitude. Some are hidden off the beaten path, while others are guarded by powerful foes you need to defeat first. Not only does this encourage you to explore every nook and cranny of each level, but it also urges you to take risks and challenge tougher enemies you might not have otherwise bothered with. There's no glory in playing it safe, and taking risks earlier will pay off further down the line when your strength either matches or overpowers your enemies.
Increasing your Morale Rank also gives you access to more Wizardry Spells. These mystic techniques can be unleashed by consuming Spirit, with each one falling into one of five elemental categories: Earth, water, wood, fire, and metal. Some of these spells are self-explanatory, letting you conjure the likes of fireballs, pointed icicles, and exploding rock pillars. Others are less obvious, such as wood spells being based entirely around lightning, while metal sorcery focuses on poisonous toxins. You can only equip four at a time, which feels somewhat limiting, but these spells do add an extra layer of depth to combat. They're not all offense-based either, with some spells allowing you to strengthen your defenses by coating yourself in rocks or restore lost health by dealing damage to enemies. There's also a rock, paper, scissors mechanic at play where wood overcomes earth, earth overcomes water, and so on, but it's not something I ever really noticed. You can deflect elemental attacks with your weapon so I was never compelled to go out of my way to counter a magic-using enemy with spells of my own.
The loot in Wo Long has been significantly toned down in comparison to Nioh and especially Stranger of Paradise: Final Fantasy Origin. Enemies don't constantly drop gear when defeated, so loot drops feel more spaced out and earned. Every item you pick up, whether it's a weapon or a piece of armor, has a star rating attached to it that's essentially a rough gauge of its quality. Baseline stats like damage and defense aren't overly affected by these ratings. Instead, the rarer the loot, the more special effects it has, which add passive bonuses to modify certain stats. You can visit a blacksmith to upgrade the main properties of your gear using various materials, so once I attained a full set of four-star gear I saw little reason to change unless I wanted to try out a new weapon type. The rest of the loot was quickly scavenged for more materials or sold for money, so there's still a moment in between each level where you'll typically rummage through all of the loot you want to get rid of.
Wo Long has a fairly large assortment of different weapon types, ranging from straight sabers and dual blades to polearms and great wooden hammers. While the basic move set is the same for each armament within a single weapon type, each individual weapon feels distinct because of its unique Martial Arts. These special moves are flashy melee attacks that are stronger than regular attacks; the caveat is that they consume a portion of the Spirit gauge with each use. Some of these Martial Arts are focused on damaging a single enemy multiple times, while others excel when against a group or to close the distance on an opponent. They add another exciting wrinkle to Wo Long's combat, to the point where you're incentivized to experiment with weapons you might not otherwise try.
Unfortunately, the game also suffers from a few technical issues. Stuttering and slowdown are both frequent annoyances on PC, where poor optimization ensures that altering the settings does little to alleviate these problems. I never encountered a situation where this hampered my ability to defeat enemies, so timing deflections wasn't affected by it, but it's still disappointing that another PC release is launching in such a haphazard state. It should be noted that someone else playing the game on PS5 didn't encounter the same issues, so it's likely these problems are confined to PC.
The fact that Wo Long's demo features the first two levels and carries your save over to the full game is a boon for those who might otherwise be put off. It gives you the opportunity to challenge the first boss for yourself and find out whether it's the barrier to entry I imagine it will be for many players. If you can defeat Zhang Liang, the game that follows is a thrilling yet approachable addition to the Souls-like genre. Its parry-based combat is frequently stellar, and Team Ninja has made a number of smart changes to keep Wo Long feeling fresh, even if there's always a tinge of familiarity. It has its issues, but if you're craving a fast-paced action RPG built on satisfying combat, Wo Long ticks most of the right boxes.
Octopath Traveler was a pleasant surprise when it debuted a few years back. Its then-new HD-2D engine was a delight to behold, and the gameplay drew inspiration from some of Square Enix's most storied franchises: a deep Final Fantasy-style class and customization system mixed with the non-linear exploration and story of the SaGa series with a dash of combat that took cues from Bravely Default. These are great inspirations to draw from, but it resulted in a game that, while excellent, seemed to be struggling for a distinct identity. Perhaps the developers recognized this as well--with Octopath Traveler II, Square Enix seems to be trying to add new gameplay elements that give the franchise a personality of its own. And, for the most part, it has succeeded admirably.
The core of Octopath Traveler II is a traditional, turn-based JRPG with many of the usual gameplay elements: towns and dungeons to explore, objectives to complete, etc. Where most JRPGs present a linear method of progression, however, Octopath Traveler takes a very different approach: You begin the game by selecting a "main" character from eight candidates. This character has their own unique background, story arc, and goals, and will serve as a constant presence throughout your playtime. After an introductory story chapter, you are then free to explore the world to your liking. Eventually, you'll meet the other seven characters, allowing you to bring them into your party and follow their storylines as well, all culminating in a finale that ties the individual story threads together.
The focus on individual character arcs rather than a huge, high-stakes threat for most of the game's runtime is refreshing, allowing Octopath Traveler II to tell a variety of intriguing stories that vary wildly in both tone and focus. Some of them are comparatively weaker, but others command and hold your attention and keep you eager for more. Agnea's star-struck search for fame is notably bland, for instance, while Temenos' investigation into a murder plot by a religious cult and Throne's quest to kill the adoptive parents who raised her are excellent stand-outs. My personal favorite questline is the story of Osvald, who I chose as my starting character--a tale of a scholar who plans a Count-of-Monte-Christo-style prison escape and revenge after being framed for the murder of his own family by a scheming colleague.
As soon as you finish the first part of a character's story, you're allowed to continue on to the subsequent chapters, as there are no hard barriers to progressing how you choose. That doesn't mean you can stroll anywhere in the world without a care, however: Some areas feature significantly more dangerous foes than others, and trying to stumble through them with a low-level party is quite an extreme risk--albeit one the game doesn't prevent you from attempting if you feel confident in your survival skills. In fact, going into risky places can yield some major rewards, but there's nothing particularly punishing about playing it safe, either. Octopath Traveler's lack of hand-holding compared to many other JRPGs may be off-putting at first--it doesn't offer much guidance aside from very basic tutorials--but the freedom it grants you to explore and attempt challenges at the comfort level you choose is one of its strongest points.
One of the most interesting facets to exploration are the Path Actions unique to each character. Path Actions are available when interacting with the majority of NPCs, allowing you to engage with them in a variety of ways: acquiring items, learning abilities, gaining extra information needed to complete main and subquests, and even recruiting them as helpers in combat. New to Octopath Traveler II is a day/night cycle (which, thankfully, you can control at will) that changes which NPCs appear and what Path Actions are available to you. For example, merchant Partitio can buy items from NPCs during daytime at discounted prices, while at night he can hire characters as assistants in combat. There is overlap in the functions of characters' Path Actions, but judging which is most useful in a given situation adds a fun layer of strategy not typically present in JRPG town exploration.
Then we come to combat, which is the most satisfying and engaging element of Octopath Traveler II. The turn-based encounters build upon the foundation set by the original, emphasizing the need to strategically break down enemy defenses through the use of specific skills and weapons. There's also a "boost" system that allows you to significantly increase the efficacy of characters' actions by consuming the Boost Points that build up slowly during each turn of combat. The unique nature of each character extends to their performance in combat: Every party member has several individual skills and quirks that significantly affect their specific actions and the flow of combat as a whole Samurai warrior Hikari brings combat skills learned from NPCs into the fray, while apothecary Castti can mix items together to create helpful or harmful concoctions. Perhaps the most fun of these skills is that of Ochette, a beast-woman who can capture enemies and cook them into health- and status-restoring meat--or keep them to use their skills in combat.
You don't have to be content with just the default skills of your characters, either. Like the original game, you can assign characters a sub-job, which will allow them to learn active and passive skills specific to each class, as well as equip a wider variety of weaponry. Playing around and discovering particularly effective combinations of gear, party composition, and skillsets is quite enjoyable and rewarding, with each new skill unlock adding something new to your overall repertoire--and hidden job classes and EX skills found over the course of the game add even more surprises and options. A new element of Octopath Traveler II's battle strategizing is Latent Powers, character-specific Limit-Break-style abilities that can dramatically affect combat when used at the right time. Every party member's Latent Ability is different: Osvald can transform multi-target attacks into intensely powerful single-target strikes, Throne can take an extra turn, Hikari and Ochette get access to new attack skills, and Temenos can break through defenses with any attack. Using these skills in tandem with a carefully crafted setup can create delightfully devious outcomes. For example, you can have others buff Osvald's magic attacks, attack to put the enemy into a broken state, and then use Osvald's Latent Ability and several boosts to create a massively damaging single-target spell strike that melts away enemy HP like butter. Finding effective tools and setups can allow you to get through combat situations that, typically, you might be horrendously under-leveled for, which yields immense satisfaction when all goes according to plan. Which, sometimes, it doesn't, but that's risk for you.
Octopath Traveler II isn't without some quibbles and frustrations, though. Every character that joins you starts out at a low level, requiring a time investment before they get up to parity with the rest of the party. Dungeon and field exploration is very basic, with little in the way of puzzles or gimmicks to spice up typical path-following--with only a few side roads leading to treasure chests taking you off the beaten path. Sometimes you're overwhelmed with choice paralysis as to what to do next in the various stories, while at other times you feel like all of your potential next moves are high-level adventures that may put you in way over your head. The risk/reward system for certain Path Actions is utterly nonsensical: I won't get my reputation in town tarnished for mugging or picking fights with people, but I will if I fail to entice an NPC to join my party? These aren't huge flaws by any stretch, but they are things that I hope will be ironed out and spruced up in potential future installments.
Octopath Traveler II is an ideal sequel. It builds upon the foundations of the original by improving on what worked, establishing common pillars of design and gameplay--combat mechanics, Path Actions, freeform progress--that will hopefully carry forth through future games. It also iterates upon concepts and ideas borrowed from other JRPGs--the day/night cycle and Latent Abilities--that enhance the overall experience. Octopath Traveler II is a delight from start to finish, and has left me looking forward to seeing where this series will take itself in the future.
Tales of Symphonia was a formative experience for me. For my young 11-year-old brain, it redefined my understanding of the JRPG genre. The vibrant presentation, action-focused combat, and mature story took me by surprise. Weekend after weekend, a friend and I would explore the world of Sylvarant together, making incremental progress in each play session. While I had played a few JRPGs before, none had hooked me the way Tales of Symphonia had.
Despite my deep reverence for Tales of Symphonia, I haven't touched it since 2004. I don't really know why. I bought it on PC a few years back, but it just felt wrong to play that game sitting at my desk one random evening after work--almost as if it would tarnish the magic of that experience and the memories tied to it. However, with the release of Tales of Symphonia Remastered, I decided it was finally time to return to this world to see if it was as good as I remember. The result was a bit mixed.
Tales of Symphonia follows a kid named Lloyd Irving as he accompanies the Chosen One on a globetrotting adventure. The Chosen One, Colette, instructed by divine prophecy, must "regenerate" the world in order to end war, famine, and hatred. It seems like standard JRPG fare, but the story is darker and far more complex than it initially lets on. Despite trying to do the right thing, Lloyd and his companions are confronted with moral quandaries that often leave a trail of destruction behind them. What makes the story so effective is how it rarely shies away from the consequences of our heroes' actions. Conflicts are rarely resolved neatly, and the story is better for it.
What makes the story truly memorable, though, is the excellent cast of characters. To this day, Symphonia still has the best cast of characters the series has ever seen. Lloyd is a charismatic, hot-headed kid seeing the world for the first time. Genis is a clumsy spellcaster who serves as the perfect best friend and foil to Lloyd. While Kratos, upon first glance, appears to be a cold and detached mercenary, he quickly becomes a stoic father figure to Lloyd. There's a great dynamic between all of the party members that lead to some funny, heartwarming, and devastating moments over the course of the journey.
The story and characters are occasionally held back by some awkward localization, but the lack of a proper quest-tracking system is what really halts the momentum. Like in the original, there is a Synopsis menu that summarizes your adventure so far and occasionally tells you where to go next. The problem is that these "synopsis" entries are a pain to sift through and can be vague at times, meaning you could be aimlessly wandering around the map until you stumble on a point of interest that triggers a cutscene. The inelegant, but often necessary, solution is to pull up a walkthrough. Tales of Symphonia also has a handful of side quests, some of which are missable. Once again, there isn't a reliable way to track these quests, so it's very easy to miss out on some.
The presentation doesn't do Tales of Symphonia many favors, either. The user interface has received a few minor tweaks, but it looks nearly identical to the PS3 port released in 2013. The cutscenes are just as stiff and awkward as they were back in 2004, and the overworld is bland and lifeless. And the classic chibi-esque style feels at odds with some of the game's darker themes. It's hard to take some of the more emotional moments seriously when they are played out by cutesy characters.
What sets the Tales Of series apart from other JRPGs is its real-time combat. While you can still pause time to change your tactics, manage unique attacks called Artes, and use items, the combat itself plays out in real time. Success in battle requires some light meter management and stringing together basic attacks with Artes. This basic combat loop hasn't changed much with subsequent titles in the series, but compared to Tales of Berseria and Tales of Arise, it feels stiff and painfully slow. Eventually, as you unlock more Artes, combos become intricate and, in turn, are more satisfying to pull off, but the early hours can feel like a slog.
To offset the repetitive nature of combat, you can play as different party members. Each character boasts a different playstyle with unique Artes and bespoke combos. Spellcasters like Genis thrive on the edge of the battlefield slinging spells from afar, while the assassin Sheena, voiced by the incredible Jennifer Hale, uses elemental cards to attack her foes. No matter who you play, you can't escape the lackadaisical pace of combat, though.
Although most combat encounters are relatively slow and straightforward, boss fights are a highlight. These demand a thoughtful party composition, clever tactics, and smart item management. Even on the normal difficulty level, players might find it difficult to coast through boss encounters like they would regular ones. While the fundamentals still feel a little clunky, the increased challenge makes boss fights considerably more engaging.
On Nintendo Switch, I did run into a few technical issues in the first 10 hours. A couple of rooms within specific dungeons suffer from noticeably low frame rates. This doesn't carry over into combat, so it doesn't directly affect gameplay, but it's still jarring seeing a 19-year-old game suffer from frame rate issues on modern hardware--especially considering the original Nintendo GameCube release targeted 60 frames per second. Additionally, in the Town of Asgard, the game hitches up every time you enter a building. So far this is the only instance of this I've seen, but it's another bizarre issue that, although it doesn't directly affect gameplay, is weird to see nonetheless.
More frustratingly, my game crashed twice in the first 10 hours. What made these crashes particularly painful is the lack of an auto-save feature paired with Tales of Symphonia's rigid save system. You can only save in certain locations, and some save spots are inaccessible without a specific item. That means that one poorly timed crash can erase hours of work. I've lost a total of two hours to crashes. Both crashes happened during extended play sessions of four or more hours. Since then, I've been saving regularly and relaunching the game every few hours, and I haven't had any crashes since. It's also worth noting that both crashes happened prior to a day-one patch, which is now available. Hopefully, this means players picking up the game on launch won't run into these same issues.
Tales of Symphonia Remastered is still a captivating JRPG that's--unfortunately--a bit tough to recommend today given some of its dated exploration mechanics and rough presentation. A few modern conveniences could have gone a long way like auto-saving and quest tracking, but its emotional story regularly subverts expectations and explores the gray areas in what may seem like a straightforward adventure. All told, it's a thin remaster that doesn't shine a very flattering light on one of my favorite JRPGs.
Mario is the most versatile character in the Nintendo oeuvre, but Kirby has to be a close second. Though the pink puffball may not spend his free time go-karting or playing tennis, his catalog includes a ton of experimental games and art styles that stretch the limits of what a Kirby game can be. Kirby's Return to Dream Land Deluxe, a remastered version of the 2011 Wii game for Nintendo Switch, is in most ways a very traditional Kirby platformer. But its playful spirit, approachability, and a sizable new epilogue campaign make it much more than a retread.
The main story component of Return to Dream Land is a colorful romp as you restore the parts of an alien ship, set to a joyful and buoyant soundtrack. The adorably bulbous alien Magolor crash-lands on Planet Popstar and seeks help from Kirby and his friends. Those allies are a major component this time, because Dream Land features drop-in co-op for up to four players. You can include any number of multicolored Kirbys in your ranks, but you can also bring along other familiar faces: Meta Knight, Bandana Waddle Dee, and King Dedede. Each has their own move set--Meta Knight is more agile than the weighty Dedede, for example--but only Kirby has the signature Copy ability to swallow enemies.
Kirby's combat isn't simplistic, but it is forgiving. There's a ton of contextual moves you can do with each Copy ability, which means you can pull off impressive juggles. But the enemies aren't much of a threat, so you don't really need to master the combat. It's a different approach from some other Nintendo franchises, which use simple move sets to pull off an increasingly difficult array of challenges. This one seems more aimed at letting players meet it wherever they are.
Within this simple framework, Return to Dream Land is especially adept at mixing different types of challenges for a steady pace of delightful surprise. You'll often find glowing enemies that grant a special Ultra version of your Copy abilities, with screen-filling effects. Holding onto these for a while will usually open a hidden path or grant you a special item, making it extra worthwhile to play with their over-the-top effects. The variety is especially on display when it comes to the occasional reference to other games, like a power-up that emulates Kuribo's Shoe from Mario, or a stage that treats blast barrels like a stage from Donkey Kong Country.
The cast of characters and array of Copy abilities, along with homages to classic bosses like Whispy Woods, make this feel like a greatest hits collection. But it does include a pair of new Copy abilities that longtime fans in particular are sure to appreciate. The Sand ability is a cute new addition--giving Kirby a headdress that looks like a waving sandstorm and replacing his main attack with swiping a wave of sand at your enemies--but it's fairly similar to other existing Copy abilities. That makes the other new ability, the Mecha suit, the real standout. When gobbling up robotic enemies, Kirby gets a power suit akin to a Gundam, and his suite of abilities ranges from a long-range laser to arcing rockets. I grabbed a Mecha ability whenever I had the option, because it's just so versatile and fun to play.
This all might make Return to Dream Land sound like a cakewalk, but it would be more accurate to say that it ramps up to a comfortable difficulty. Even during its hardest stages, I would only die once or twice, which made the overall experience breezy rather than frustrating. That should make it ideal for younger players looking for a gentle on-ramp to Nintendo's expertise in platforming craftsmanship. The co-op play also means more experienced players or parents can help guide younger players along, but for solo play, Return to Dream Land Deluxe features a new Helper Magolor feature. If you turn it on, you'll get a handful of helpful assists: double stamina, immunity from falling deaths, and a toggled-on option that automatically activates Kirby's Copy forms instead of needing to trigger them manually. All of this has the net effect of making a relatively easy game even easier, but it's a nice set of training wheels for those who need them.
After you've finished the main story, an Extra mode opens up that presents more challenging versions of the same stages. It's a nice touch, but it would have been better to offer the option from the beginning, rather than force more experienced players to go through the story once just to earn the ability to do it again, but harder.
The much more significant post-story addition, new to this Deluxe version, is an epilogue story starring a disheveled Magolor as a playable character. What sets Magolor apart from the rest of the Kirby characters is his wide array of magical abilities, each of which has extensive upgrades. These newly crafted stages let you gather upgrade points to make him stronger, and there's a real sense of progression as you discover new abilities and then juice them up.
Since the stages are custom-built for Magolor, they feel like a real test of his own unique movement and skills, and special challenge stages are locked to having upgraded your abilities to certain skill levels so that you can conquer them. To my surprise, the final boss was a tough challenge that forced me to go back and earn more upgrades. The new stages also make use of visual flourishes that I didn't notice in the main game, like a rainfall effect.
Playing as Magolor feels very distinct from the rest of the Kirby characters, but satisfying in its own way. His floating ability makes him very agile, and since he has access to his spells all the time, he's very capable in combat without needing to find a Copy ability first. My one gripe was with his dash attack, which was mapped onto the standard attack button when combined with running, so it would often trigger when I didn't mean it to.
Rounding out the package is Merry Magoland, a carnival-like attraction with Magolor as its ringmaster, letting you take part in an array of minigames from across Kirby history along with two new additions. Playing them earns you stamps that fill up punch cards for masks of familiar Kirby characters, which you can then wear into the regular platformer stages. Plus, progressing through challenges in the minigames helps fill out the carnival setting with statues and other decorative elements.
This is the clearest remnant of Return to Dream Land's origins on the Wii, right down to Wii Remote functionality that has been mapped onto the Switch Joy-Cons. These games are fine, but only that. There are a couple of standouts in the bunch, like Checkerboard Chase and Booming Blasters, but just as many duds. Most of them are so short that it doesn't feel inviting to go through the menus to play just once, but they're also not engaging enough to play repeatedly. There is a Magoland Tour feature that randomly mixes four minigames together, but there's no way to pick a mix or to sort them by theme (like motion-controlled games), so it never quite comes together. Merry Magoland is so-so as a distraction, and may appeal to younger audiences, but it's certainly not the main attraction.
Fortunately, though, that main attraction is delightful. Kirby's Return to Dream Land Deluxe feels like a very complete package thanks to a remastered platformer campaign, substantial new Magolor epilogue, and smart new additions like the Mecha ability and Helper Magolor mode. It might be a little simple for some tastes, but it's grand fun to get lost in such a sweet little adventure regardless.
It's difficult to find someone oblivious to the world of Harry Potter. For many it was a property that grew up with them, with both the book and film series persisting in the zeitgeist for decades. It's confusing then that it's taken this long to get a game that promises to deliver on the fantasy of becoming a wizard or witch within that universe; attending classes, learning spells, engaging in mischief, and exploring the grandeur of Hogwarts Castle. Hogwarts Legacy delivers on that promise, to a degree. Its adaptation of this universe is undeniably the most extensive yet, allowing you to truly explore Hogwarts and its surrounding areas like never before. But it's also stuck too keenly in the present (and sometimes, past) of open-world game design, reducing much of what you do to repetitive checklist activities in a world that is disappointingly barren.
Hogwarts Legacy takes place in the late 1800s, although you might be hard-pressed to notice that from the way characters speak or by the clothes they wear, which look ripped straight out of the films set in the late 1900s. You play as a prodigal witch or wizard of your own creation, this time fighting against a goblin uprising led by one particularly nasty one named Ranrok. This props up a predictable and surprisingly sporadic narrative, with main beats and progression only taking place every few hours as you complete the requisite quests around them, which are often barely related. There's so little screen time for many of the main characters that you struggle to get a sense of their motives, especially so in the case of Ranrok, who only appears to deliver a line or two to some subordinates before he disappears for a couple of hours. It robs him, and the story, of any sense of emotional tension, reducing it to nothing more than "talented good student takes out bad powerful goblin" by the end.
While trying to stop a potentially cataclysmic uprising, you'll also be required to juggle the duties that come with being a newly inducted fifth-year at Hogwarts. Being both a new and older student means you get to enjoy the thrills of learning some familiar spells from earlier years, but also have access to a wide range of more advanced ones as the year progresses. The initial introduction to each class is captivating, from partaking in duels in Defence Against the Dark Arts or being subjected to a screaming Mandrake in Herbology. These are some of the moments where Hogwarts Legacy is at its strongest, recapturing the sense of wonder that has made this world so enticing to so many. The mechanical components of each class, however, fall woefully short. The small minigame used to convey wand movements for each spell feels ripped out of the series' very first video game entry nearly two decades ago, while many of the activities introduced shortly after are brief, uninteresting, and usually used as a means to fill your map with many more instances of the same thing. They quickly extinguish any glimmers of hope that the school aspect to your time at Hogwarts will be as engaging as many of these classes might seem from the outside.
After your introduction to each class, your engagement with each professor and their craft is relegated to even less interesting quests. You're tasked with completing two objectives before they'll dole out another spell, with the chores in question sometimes not even making sense for the class they're required for. Some you'll end up completing naturally as you explore or engage with other quests, such as those that require you to use certain spells on enemies or acquire particular potions. Others will, however, routinely force you to deviate from the fun, such as objectives that ask you to either purchase or grow a particular plant in the Room of Requirement (which can take upwards of 15 real-world minutes, not too unlike the artificial timers you'd find in a free mobile game). It was confusing to have progression routinely stifled by these activities, given that most main quests generally required a certain spell before they could be started.
This growing collection of spells is most useful in Hogwarts Legacy's combat, which initially makes a strong impression. Basic attack and protection spells can be fired off with ease, with the combat flow mimicking a familiar setup of timing blocks and parries as you mash away at the attack button in-between. Advanced spells sit on a four-slot weapon wheel, allowing you to cast them using one of the four face buttons. They're filtered into red, yellow, and purple classes, each of which informs you of their overall purpose in battle. Purple spells, such as accio and descendo, are manipulation attacks that can control and move opponents, while red spells such as the fire spell incendio and disarming spell expelliarmus are all about damage. Used intelligently together, combat has a rhythmic flow to it that shines most when you're pulling off combos. Flinging a foe into the air, firing off some basic attacks and then suspending them there even further makes you feel incredibly powerful, but it's also an effective way to take down enemies that are happy enough to soak up damage from your basic attack.
This way of using magic is foreign to how it's portrayed in the rest of Potterverse media, but it rarely feels out of place here. There can be some narrative dissonance if you ponder on it too long--why are professors at Hogwarts so comfortable with students fighting thousands of dangerous goblins and dark wizards and witches just off school grounds, for example–but it's easy enough to suspend disbelief for the sake of the satisfaction of getting to wield magic so freely. It's sometimes a bit too jarring, however, notably when it comes to the numerous Unforgivable Curses that you'll have the chance to acquire. While there's thought around letting you choose whether you want to use them at all, there's nothing really punishing about routinely using some of the worst spells known to this universe. Characters might mention their displeasure at you using them, but it never tangibly makes a difference to proceedings, letting them exist as just another tool in your toolbox for when you might need it.
As you continue obtaining more spells, you're forced to assign them to alternative loadouts, with a maximum of four once you've unlocked them all. The way you swap between each of these loadouts, and in turn reassign which face buttons are assigned to each spell, is incredibly cumbersome. Outside of combat, you'll repeatedly have to dive into a menu and rearrange which spells are where, since you'll quickly obtain more than you can hold at a time. Swapping between each one while fighting also stifles the engaging rhythm of fights, and you can easily end up fighting more against your memory of which spells are located within which loadout than you do the threats around you. It ends up feeding into the repetitive nature of combat because it becomes far simpler to just stick with four basic spells that you never have to navigate away from, especially since they scale generously with your level and upgrades, while enemies don't really change meaningfully over the hours.
You'll engage with dark wizards and witches, along with dark goblins and a variety of fauna ranging from rabid wild dogs to gigantic web-slinging spiders. Despite the variety, it's fairly easy to approach each type with the same strategy, with only humans and goblins presenting slightly more of a challenge because of their color-coded shields, which you'll need to destroy with appropriate spells. Larger enemies are immune to the sort of juggling you might have become comfortable employing on smaller hapless foes, but they diminish any additional sense of danger they could've presented by featuring a grossly limited moveset for attacks. This is even worse with bosses, especially those repeated at the end of several key story missions, who only have two attack patterns you need to learn as you slowly chip away at their health bar. The repetitive nature of these fights makes you keenly aware of how they're artificially drawn out, sapping any real excitement from most of them.
Almost every quest incorporates combat in some way, which doesn't help its repetitive nature, but many also give you chances to use spells in less obvious ways. With your assortment of manipulative magic, Hogwarts Legacy trusts your intelligence with spatial puzzles that sometimes had me pausing for thought before arriving at a satisfying solution. The best quests were ones that mixed this up nicely with combat, peppering a multi-staged level filled with puzzles with some brief fights to shake up the pacing. Perhaps the best example of this is an assault on Falbarton Castle, which featured a variety of high walls to scale with combinations of levitation and time-freezing spells, along with smart combat encounters in uncharacteristically tight spaces where a small misstep could be a long fall to death. It's capped off with a suitably climactic scene where you take flight atop a Hippogriff for the first time; it swoops down a nearby valley just as the Hogwarts Express is traveling past, throwing up thick clouds of smoke as it passes by. It's a quintessentially Harry Potter moment that feels ripped out of the main canon, and emphasizes the attention to detail that Hogwarts Legacy abides by in this regard.
This attention to detail is most evident throughout Hogwarts Castle, far and away the most engaging area of Hogwart Legacy's expansive open-world. If you've ever tried to piece together exactly how all of its rooms connect, how staircases that move around join vital hallways together, or just where every little landmark is situated, there hasn't been a better way to get those answers to date. At times it feels like you're navigating an engrossing museum, taking small stops at places of magnificence such as The Great Hall or The Library, seeing students going about their day and small acts of playful magic firing off in the corner of your eye. It's visually gorgeous and inviting to pick apart, but also filled with small puzzles and activities that further encourage your exploration. It certainly might not have been big enough to contain the entirety of Hogwart Legacy's story, but its level of polish stands in stark contrast to the world outside of its walls.
While Hogwarts Castle is grandiose, the only other part of Hogwarts Legacy's gigantic map that comes close to matching it is the vendor-laden streets of Hogsmeade. Ignoring the same two vocal cues that played every time I ventured there, the town itself is every bit as cozy as your character will frequently suggest, while also providing vital mercantile services for all your potions, equipment, and more. The areas surrounding both of these large landmarks are disappointingly barren by comparison. The Forbidden Forest is suitably eerie at any time of the day, but its visual impact is impaired by all the other identical forestry that stretches across all of the surrounding hills. Smaller villages appear throughout the map, too, with a handful of merchants and some side quests to accept in them, but these are even more cookie-cutter in their construction, to the point where it's almost impossible to tell one from another as you're exploring. Nothing makes this more evident than when you're flying across the countryside on a mount or broom. While it's unsurprisingly easy to pick out both Hogwarts and Hogsmeade from a distance, everything else blends into an indistinguishable blur of forestry and bare fields, which rarely invited me to explore it over fast-traveling between quests.
To be clear, there are things to do within this visually drab open world, but they're usually just as uninteresting as their backdrop. Hogwarts Legacy's world is littered with an abundance of trivial activities to complete, the likes of which you'll be familiar with if you've kept abreast of modern open-world designs. There are enemy camps to clear out, flora and fauna to either collect or hunt down, pages from your collectible field guide to uncover, chests behind locked doors to rummage through, and so much more. It's meant to alleviate the time spent traveling to and from story missions while also offering monetary and gear rewards, but it's so easy to overlook entirely given how frequent those rewards are handed out in far more intrestings main quests.
Problems arise, however, when Hogwarts Legacy forces you to engage with these mediocre side activities in order to progress. Many story quests are gated with both level and spell requirements, the former depending on your current numerical level and the latter on whether or not you have access to a specific spell. Experience is only rewarded for many of the activities strewn around the world and the various, albeit bland, side missions you can complete. Depending on how much you choose to explore Hogwarts Legacy's world organically or not, you can find yourself (like I did frequently) forced to take a pause from the main path and work through open-world missions just enough to continue, before being faced with the same hurdle again.
The allure of better gear should offset the monotony, but it's so graciously handed out by defeated enemies that you'll find yourself rubbing up against your restrictive inventory. You start off with 20 slots that are shared across all five of your gear categories, which can be filled within just one or two missions if you're not making a habit of visiting a merchant to offload items or wastefully destroying them. Worse still is that the only way to alleviate this issue is to complete countless Merlin Trials across the map, all of which are one of a handful of small, quick puzzles repeated ad nauseam. Each milestone in this quest rewards you with four extra slots, and the requirements to the next one increases as you go, making it a tedious slog if all you want to do is reduce the frequency with which you have to manage your inventory.
There's a sense of bloat that permeates many of Hogwarts Legacy's mechanics, informing design decisions that turn it into a familiar loot-based action game. There are so many systems that exist solely to tempt you into caring about maxing out your equipment levels or upgrading gear to enhance its stats, both of which are completely unnecessary in the face of how little a challenge the combat poses to keep up with you. The Room of Requirement, a small hub of sorts, is a space that lets you reveal unidentified gear, similar to Diablo or Destiny, craft potions and cultivate violent flora that both feature long timers you have to wait on before you can claim them, and a massive space for all your collected beasts that can be farmed for resources vital to upgrading your gear. Aside from the odd visit to complete a quest or craft a single potion, I felt little reason to return to this space for the many purposes it was designed for. Even unidentified gear became mostly irrelevant, as better gear (often in the same rarity class) would drop before I felt compelled to make the trip. These are some of the numerous systems that Hogwarts Legacy pushes you to engage with, often forcibly through questlines, with many of them not coalescing with the structure of the rest of the game, ending up as superfluous and a waste of time.
Time is something Hogwarts Legacy and its repetitive quests, dull open world, and monotonous combat often do not respect, from its slow opening to its insistence on introducing new systems to juggle just for the sake of it. It's a bit of a shame that these parts couldn't coalesce in the same way that its presentation and respect for its universe does, because Hogwarts Castle persists as a delightful puzzle box to explore from the moment you step foot in its doors to the last day of term. There's equally delightful moments during some of the main quests, specifically those that balance puzzle-solving and combat in ways that challenge your understanding of the spells you have in engaging ways. But these moments are so spread out between much less interesting filler content that it will likely take some of the most dedicated Harry Potter fans to justify seeing the entire journey through.
In the alternate history of Atomic Heart, a scientist named Dmitry Sechenov kickstarts a robotics boom in Russia in the 1930s. By the 1950s, the working class has been abolished in the Soviet Union and completely replaced by robots controlled through a hive-mind network called Kollectiv 1.0. The game begins a few years after that, just prior to the public unveiling of Kollectiv 2.0, which will allow all humans to have equal access to the hive-mind to control robots remotely through a Thought device wired straight to their brain, as well as connect and share information with each other across great distances. Basically, it's the Internet plugged into your brain and available 24/7.
With the benefit of 21st-century hindsight, we know the Internet will not end up being a 100% good idea even if the main character Major Sergei Nechaev, an agent who serves Sechenov, fully believes in the dream of a world where everyone equally has access to each other and the wealth of information that will surely be shared. Assigned to investigate a disturbance in Facility 3826, the Soviet Union's foremost scientific research hub, Sergei is joined by Charles, a sentient glove that gifts the agent with a host of polymer-fed technopowers like telekinesis and cryokinesis, and provides a sounding board for Sergei's oftentimes annoying and borderline abusive collection of quips and unfunny comebacks.
Within the now blood-soaked hallways and flickering lights of the partially destroyed underground facility, Sergei discovers experiments into mutation gone awry and finds that the once-peaceful robot assistants have turned blood-thirsty. The true horror doesn't come until later, however, when Charles talks to Sergei about the ways in which Kollectiv 2.0 (which is already installed into Sergei) may not be entirely beneficial. Hasn't Sergei noticed that all those audio logs he's found and computers he's logged into only give him information that's relevant to furthering the mission he's been assigned? Wow, it's almost as if an algorithm is feeding him with information about what it thinks he should see and hear more of, disguising it in a way where he can't spot the manipulation. It's not as overt a form of control as a spoken command but Charles hints that humans can be directed just as easily as robots once they've all logged into the same hive-mind of information, especially if there is a way to control that information.
It's an intriguing concept, one furthered by the notion that Atomic Heart is a video game and so we, the player, have been directing Sergei's actions the entire time. So it's not just Sergei who's being manipulated to view the game's world in a certain way based on a fictional Internet algorithm, it's us too. But as interesting as it is, exploring free will through the scope of a video game's story has been done before, and Atomic Heart doesn't do anything notably novel with the concept. In fact, its protagonist actively gets in the way of this concept being explored, raging at Charles that he doesn't have time to wax poetic about hypotheticals. He can't be bothered to offer any sort of introspection because there are robots that need to be stopped and a bad guy to blame that needs killing. Over and over, Charles brings up the morality of their mission and the larger implications of what's going on, and repeatedly Sergei just doesn't care, citing that he'll leave the thinking to Sechenov. The first and second times it happens, you're hopeful that this flaw is setting up some form of character development for Sergei. When you're 10 hours in and Sergei is still spinning in the same pattern and showing no signs of growing as a person, you can't help but wonder how anyone could be this stubbornly bone-headed and annoyingly naive.
Sergei is also deeply unlikable as a person. He's antagonistic to everyone around him, including the regularly helpful Charles, and it's never explained why, leading to the slow realization of the painful truth that you're just playing as a shitty human being. You don't feel good playing as Sergei whenever he opens his mouth to talk to anyone--I empathize more with the people who have to tolerate his barrage of unfunny insults than I do him.
It's familiar but still fun.
Despite being a jerk, he does know how to fight. Wielding polymer abilities with his left hand and an assortment of firearms and weapons with his right, Sergei is a hard-hitting fighter. While the robots and mutants he goes up against are far faster than he is, you can easily escape the swarms by using Sergei's dash to reposition, curating a frenetic hit-and-run combat experience. Though relatively simple at first, combat evolves into a more engaging experience as more enemy types are introduced, each with its own attack patterns and weaknesses.
Atomic Heart has a healthy diversity of enemy types. However, there's nothing you'll face you probably haven't fought a variation of before in other games--ranging from dog-like enemies that try to circle you before pouncing in your direction to turret-like adversaries that shoot at you from afar to bulky foes who heavily telegraph their attacks but can take a hit. The same goes for the weapons and powers you use to fight them. The pump-action shotgun hits like you'd expect a shotgun should, for instance, and the cold polymer power freezes enemies in their tracks just as you'd assume. There's nothing revolutionary to how combat plays out, but it all works as it should. It's familiar but still fun.
Looting is surprisingly the most enjoyable aspect of Atomic Heart, as, with just the click of a button, Charles can use telekinesis to pull loot into Sergei's pocket. In practice, this causes drawers to fly open, cabinet doors to almost swing off their hinges, and the bodies of enemies to erupt as the magnetic pull of Charles rips the resources of a room towards Sergei. It never got old to enter an unexplored room or clear out a group of enemies and then sit back to watch as everything around me exploded into a whirlwind of paper and scraps of metal, sucked into my coffers like a greedy tornado. Of course, you can then use these resources to craft new firearms, ammo, weapon attachments, and items, but the sheer delight of the act is almost enough of a reward in itself.
After completing the first mission, Sergei takes a monorail to the main area of the game, where Atomic Heart expands into an open-world format. At this point, the game's narrative slows to an annoying crawl as Sergei journeys to one of several facilities to complete a mission, return to the surface of the open world, travel to the next facility, and repeat the process. Even if you don't take the time to freely explore the map, complete optional challenges, and look for materials to unlock special attachments for your firearms, the journey between waypoints still bogs down the story. Nothing of narrative importance happens outside of the contained, linear levels of the different facilities, and combat benefits from the carefully structured layout of those contained levels. Even enemy placement and type are curated to fit specific areas of the linear levels, and that careful curation is lost within the breadth of the open world. I would often just hop in a car and drive straight to the next story beat, as that's where the better gameplay is. It makes the open world feel superfluous, adding content at the expense of enjoyability.
Fortunately, some of the main levels have a distinct flavor and engaging themes to them, helping them to stand out against the largely forgettable open world. My favorite of these levels takes place in a theater known for being the first to feature a cast composed entirely of robots. The level sees Sergei chasing after a man who used to work there, who has twisted the theater into a macabre showcase of art--much like in BioShock. There's this breadcrumb trail of diary entries you can uncover that reveals an engineer coming to terms with the strange parasocial relationship he's developing with one of the robot dancers, a clever puzzle that incorporates ballet poses and blood splatters, and an incredible moment where you're fighting off waves of enemies during a ballet that gets a hip-hop remix
It's a great level, and I'm sad we didn't get more like it or at least have more examples of using music to transform a familiar combat scenario into something more memorable. Atomic Heart has a great soundtrack filled with thumping, high-energy music from Doom composer Mick Gordon that will get your head bobbing during even the most butt-clenching of battles. But these powerful rhythms are usually reserved for boss encounters, meaning a lot of the game's best music is fleeting and only pops up for one encounter before never being heard from again. That moment in the theater is cool, but it's the only time something like that happens in the game. Atomic Heart doesn't build on it to make more moments like it--in fact, there are quite a few instances where the powerful soundtrack feels wasted because the superb composition that's playing doesn't match the vibe of what you're currently doing. Why play hard rock during a stressful fight in the dimly lit space of a morgue? It just doesn't fit.
There are quite a few parts of Atomic Heart that just don't neatly fit together, and those disparities create an experience that often feels at odds with itself. That disparity is most evident in how the history of the world in Atomic Heart is interesting and sets up an intriguing conversation about the nature of free will and collectivism, but then the unlikable protagonist repeatedly prevents that topic from being explored. Atomic Heart is certainly going to appeal to some people, especially those looking to relive BioShock Infinite, but it's not an easy recommendation.
Take the faces, voices, and over-the-top theatrics that have made the Yakuza franchise renowned, and transport all that back to 19th century Japan. The result is Like A Dragon: Ishin, an enticing period piece that also includes the series' action-brawler gameplay and ridiculous hijinx. Even though the context has changed, swapping the gangs of the modern criminal underworld for political factions in a tumultuous time in history, Ishin is yet another example of what developer RGG Studio does best: melodramatic storytelling.
It's been a long time coming as Yakuza: Ishin, originally a PS3/PS4 game from 2014, was not previously localized and brought to the West like other entries in the franchise. This new version lands somewhere between a remaster and remake, but it is based on older iterations of Yakuza games which makes Like A Dragon: Ishin feel dated in several respects, particularly in moment-to-moment gameplay. Still, its fundamentals are solid and the main draws of the franchise remain intact, hooking me with its characters and twists that had me eager to see its historical fiction unfold from chapter to chapter.
Instead of the glitz and glam of Kamurocho, Ishin takes us to late-Edo period Japan, around the time of the end of the samurai class and just before the country's modernization. In the same way previous Yakuza games offer a sort of virtual tourism, Ishin's vivid reconstruction of Japan's past (albeit with more creative liberties) delivers the same thrills. The streets are filled with menacing men wanting to cut you down as you mind your business strolling through the markets, restaurants and bars represent the era's cuisine, and tons of side content reflect the culture and traditions of the time. While it may not be as dazzling as the neon-lit streets of the modern day, the more low-key setting of Kyo (which is now modern-day Kyoto) is refreshing and a welcome change of pace that lets the Yakuza formula thrive once again within a framework it is comfortable with.
What you really come to this series for is the drama, and the Bakumatsu period of the Edo era is fertile ground for Ishin's historical fiction. It's a time in Japanese history when internal conflict and political strife came to a head, with various factions vying for power, leading to a transitional phase for the country. Ishin uses this as a stage to tell another story of betrayal, conflicting ideals, and seeking personal truths, but fits it into a pivotal time of widespread violence and societal turbulence. Ishin melds these parallel themes gracefully using strong characters as the focal point for both the gripping personal drama and the escalating struggle for power to steer Japan's future.
By using the same character models and voice actors from the Yakuza pantheon, Ishin creates an immediate familiarity that made me feel right at home but ever-curious about the direction of its story. Series legend Kazuma Kiryu takes on the role of Ishin's protagonist Ryoma Sakamoto / Hajima Saito (as an alias), loosely based on the revered real-world figures of the same names. Other favorites like Majima, Saejima, and Akiyama fill in the roles of Soji Okita, Shinpachi Nagakura, and Katsura Kogoro, respectively--just to name a few. It's wild to see such an all-star cast don the names and roles of historical figures, but what's more striking is that each character remains true to their ethos and personality from the mainline games. Although no experience with the Yakuza series is required to understand or enjoy Ishin, the little nods and references in dialogue, visual flourishes, and musical themes along the way are real treats for Yakuza sickos such as myself.
The dynamics between each character make for some hype moments and thrilling battles, especially with its prestige-level cutscenes that perfectly frame the story's pivotal moments. Facial close-ups where you can see every little expression and the elegantly choreographed duels sell you on the emotion established in each cutscene, making the melodrama feel earnest, as the series always does. I was drawn to each character as if I needed no introduction, like seeing old pals and rivals from a movie screen fit right into a stage play.
However, Ishin does take its time to get the ball rolling. It wasn't until roughly 8 hours in, around the halfway point, that I started to see the various pieces fall into place and the story comes into clearer focus. It drops a lot on you, frontloading the story by establishing factions, political terminology, and the deep cast in a way that can be tough to follow if you're not already familiar with Edo period history. Ishin is ambitious in that way, trusting that you can keep up and track the things it throws at you. But at the same time, the first half sort of spins its wheels before having real consequences and character motivations take center stage. Once the tangled web of alliances started to carry more narrative weight, however, it was hard to put down as the momentum of the drama propelled me to the end, leaving me eager to find out what happens in each subsequent chapter. I've played too many of these games to be completely surprised by their plot twists at this point, but time after time, Yakuza games still activate those good brain chemicals with their cinematic storytelling panache, and Ishin is no exception.
Whether it be the Bakufu, Shinsengumi, Tosa Loyalist Party, or the various schemers looking to get a leg up in the upper classes, these organizations are focused on seizing power and enacting their brand of order in society. The story opens up by showing you firsthand the ugliness of the feudalistic caste system in place at the time, motivating you to fight the power, but as Ishin shows, virtue is in short supply no matter where you look. There are some patriotic platitudes sprinkled throughout for dramatic effect and to show a seemingly genuine desire for what's best for one's country, especially in the face of persistent meddling by deceptive western powers, but it keeps the romanticization of honor and glorification of samurai at arm's length, unlike popular stories that have reveled in those myths. And as history has shown, the Meiji era of imperialism and nationalism that soon followed the period Ishin takes place in had a brutal and destructive impact. So while the political backdrop is fascinating and critical to the entirety of Ishin, it pretty much sticks to familiar beats of mainline Yakuza games to show that in its ugly history, there aren't really any "good guys."
Ishin's tried-and-true action-brawler combat serves as a sufficient vehicle for all the gripping drama and larger-than-life characters. It's similar to the Yakuza games of old but with a focus on swordsmanship and firearms. The four fighting styles feel more distinct than the various stances from previous Yakuza brawlers and have their own advantages in certain combat situations. I can elegantly slice through a crowd of enemies with the nimble Wild Dancer that combines sword and handgun, then switch to the deft-handed Swordsman stance to lay on heavy damage in one-on-one battles. The grappling-based Brawler, meanwhile, can be used for brute force and the Gunman can chip away at enemies from a distance, which helps mix things up.
A flexible upgrade system rewards you for using different stances and lets you add perks like new, devastating Heat Actions--the series' signature cinematic finishers--or extended combos as you level up. Dojos throughout Kyo have their own little stories and unlock more options to get the most out of your stances and Trooper Cards act as special abilities that either provide buffs or magic-like attacks that somehow fit the ridiculousness I've come to love about the series.
Ishin can be as technical as you want it to be, even though basic hacking and slashing can get you through most of the story's battles well enough. Like other entries, you'll fight through hordes of enemies in story-driven scenarios, and they tend to have a bag of cheap tricks in their back pockets that are inoffensive at best and annoying at worst. On the other hand, Ishin's boss fights are a highlight, which feel less like a war of attrition and more like a duel between skilled swordsmen. And these battles are topped off with over-the-top theatrics--in true series fashion, I can stab a dude in the gut five times and fire 10 shots point-blank, but when the dust settles, those gruesome Heat Actions were just a bloodless way to settle the score.
This new version of Ishin is faithful to what the original was when it came out in 2014 and uses an identical gameplay foundation from the older series entries. So, while it's rebuilt on Unreal Engine 4, it plays much like Yakuza 0 and Yakuza Kiwami. However, that's a noticeable step back after five other entries in the modernized Dragon Engine--especially coming off the latest in Lost Judgment, which featured the best brawler combat system RGG has made thus far. Playing through Ishin, it's clear how much the series has evolved, with better fluidity of movement, and how that manifests in a more robust combat experience. Even though I can enjoy it for what it is, I had to place the game in context and keep my expectations in check.
The older tech shows its age in other aspects, as it's apparent with quality-of-life features seen in later entries just aren't present here. With the Dragon Engine having flexed the seamlessness of walking into the various shops and establishments, the segmented design of the open world reminds you that this is a game of generations past.
The actual content of the various activities that fill the streets of Kyo, however, are as good as they've always been. Signatures like rhythm-based karaoke feature a playlist of bangers that has Ryoma on stage singing his heart out to a crowd of bar patrons--good old "Baka Mitai" gets another goofy rendition here, and finally, I get to play through the original folksy version of "Iji Sakura," which grabs you with a catchy, somber melody and voice actor Takaya Kuroda's deep tones. And as someone who loves rhythm games, the fan dancing minigame and substory had me sinking even more time in chaining combos to some catchy Japanese folk tunes as Ryoma showcases his elegant traditional moves.
I sunk the most time into farming, fishing, and cooking, which all feed into the side content dubbed Another Life. Here, Ryoma lives off the land as you manage crops to grow in the backyard of his own home. As you harvest fruits and veggies, and reel in more fish from the rivers and open seas, you can cook more dishes. Cooking is done through cute little minigames that reward you with food as powerful healing items and extra money if you want to fulfill food delivery requests. It's also how you connect with Ryoma's adoptive daughter Haruka, who is essentially the same character as in the mainline games.
As with any Yakuza game, substories litter the streets as either short diversions for silly side stories with absurd or heartwarming moments. You'll be doing a logic exercise to correctly accuse the culprits who stole a coworker's mochi, helping a kid repair a relationship with a friend who's moving away, slicing up dudes to protect some escaping an arranged marriage, and many other bizarre or amusing divergences--this version of Ryoma Sakamoto gets comically roped into everybody's business and is just as naive but good-natured as the Kiryu we've grown to love. There are a ton of these substories as well, which can be overbearing when they automatically trigger and interrupt the main story's momentum. And while not every one of these substories is worth writing home about, they're always welcome as a reason to keep playing and experience the ever-present goofy side of RGG games.
Like A Dragon: Ishin is a fascinating part of the RGG Studio catalog, creatively blending the characters and drama we know and love across the Yakuza lore with a period piece set during a turbulent time in Japanese history. By virtue of its brand of storytelling, Ishin forgoes some of the tropes that have glorified samurai but rides that line ever so closely. If the series is one thing, it's consistent--because despite the shift to Edo-era Japan, there's an unmistakable familiarity. The days of asking Sega to bring Ishin to the West are thankfully over. And although this revision uses an older foundation that shows its age, it's nice to finally have a version of the game that has been tidied up for modern platforms. Like a Dragon: Ishin brings an all-star cast back together for a story that's bigger than any one character, and it makes for a fine addition to the series’ deep history.
You only need to glance at Wild Hearts for a moment to see the similarities it shares with Capcom's Monster Hunter series. Both games are about exploring large, open areas--either alone or with other players--to find and defeat giant monsters, then harvesting and using their parts to craft better weapons and armor. Developer Omega Force has explored the genre before with the Toukiden series, and those two games represent perhaps the best examples of the monster-hunting genre outside of Capcom's own influential best-sellers. With Wild Hearts, Omega Force hasn't just set out to create a simple imitation, though. Sure, it has plenty of familiar elements, but the novel Karakuri system gives the game a unique identity that sets it apart from its contemporaries.
In the fiction of Wild Hearts, Karakuri is an ancient technology used by hunters to conjure impressive pieces of technology out of thin air. In action, it's a fast-paced crafting system that serves multiple functions, opening up your available options both in and out of combat. You start with what are known as Basic Karakuri, the first of which lets you produce a wooden crate that launches you into the air when you climb on top of it. You can stack up to three of these crates at once to generate extra height, which proves useful when exploring the environment but really comes into its own when fighting Wild Hearts' various monsters, known as Kemono. You can launch from these crates and transition into a devastating downward strike, or utilize the added elevation to quickly avoid an area-of-effect attack that spews out a pool of lava or poisonous clouds. Most Karakuri serve a dual purpose such as this, whether it's a springboard that proves useful in dodging attacks and propelling you toward Kemono, or a glider that allows you to traverse large gaps and position yourself above monsters for an aerial barrage.
Erecting these Karakuri is quick and simple, so it doesn't take long before you're integrating the various devices into each combat encounter. Constructing a crate, springboard, or torch in the heat of battle eventually becomes second nature, and being able to do so is just as essential to each battle as knowing how to use your specific weapon of choice. Later on, you also unlock various Fusion Karakuri, which use different combinations of Basic Karakuri to create larger, more elaborate contraptions. Stacking nine crates together in three rows, for instance, produces a rock-solid wall that can block incoming projectiles or halt a charging Kemono in its tracks, launching the beast into the air before leaving it in a vulnerable heap on the ground. You can also summon gigantic bouncing hammers, powerful bombs, and blinding firework cannons that can knock flying enemies out of the sky.
There's something immensely satisfying about creating an apparatus out of thin air and using it to gain an advantage over a 20-foot-tall monster, yet the presence of these multifaceted tools doesn't dilute the tension that's inherent to the genre. Each one costs a specific resource to build called Celestial Thread. If you run out, you can find more by hacking down trees and rocks, or by extracting chunks of it by targeting weak spots on a Kemono's body. This ensures that you need to think strategically and consider when and how to use Karakuri, but it also offers extra encouragement to play with other people because you can pool all of your individual resources together. You might build a wall to protect a teammate who's stunned, all leap from the same structure to deliver three consecutive aerial attacks, or help someone finish building a mechanism after they've run out of Celestial Thread.
There are numerous ways to play cooperatively and it's a fairly simple process, whether you're aiming to party up with friends or join a couple of strangers. You can search for other sessions that are tackling specific hunts, join a fellow hunter in need, ask for assistance yourself, or create your own party, and the inclusion of cross-play also makes it that much easier to group up with others. You have the opportunity to revive each other, too, which makes Wild Hearts' multiplayer more approachable than Monster Hunter's. Everyone still shares the same pool of three lives, but you're less likely to die if someone else is around to help you back up.
You can play the entirety of Wild Hearts solo, but there are a few drastic difficulty spikes that make this a perilous proposition. The first roadblock is a Kemono ominously called Deathstalker. After failing to put a dent in it on more than a few occasions, I spent a couple of hours hunting other monsters so I could improve my gear and focus on its elemental strengths and weaknesses. Equipped with the best ice-resistant armor I could craft, and the best fire-tinged weapon at my disposal, it still took me a few tries to eventually defeat the beast. I imagine this would have been easier if I could enlist the help of other hunters, but this proved impossible on this particular hunt prior to launch, so I was stuck by myself. If you're averse to playing with others, this sudden difficulty spike may prove too much, so it's tough to recommend Wild Hearts to those who prefer to play alone. Playing cooperatively is also just a better experience, partly because there's more of a communal spirit than in other monster-hunting games.
Both Basic and Fusion Karakuri are liable to break when met with the full force of a Kemono, but there are a plethora of Dragon Karakuri that persist throughout the entire game unless you opt to dismantle them yourself. Instead of using Celestial Thread, these constructions pull from Dragon Pits that are located on each of the game's four islands. By unlocking them, you can use their resources to materialize bigger tools like zip lines, wind vortexes, and giant wheels you can clamber inside and drive. Placing these traversal tools in your world makes subsequent hunts faster, but you can also place them in other players' sessions, and they can do so in yours. Even if you're not playing with someone else at that exact moment, something they built previously might still leave a mark on your hunt, aiding your success long after they've departed. The moment-to-moment impact of Wild Hearts' Karakuri mechanic is already terrific, but adding a societal value to some of the constructions elevates it even further.
When you're not building magical gizmos to assist you on the hunt, you're wielding one of eight distinct weapon types to deal damage. These deadly accouterments range from a nimble katana to a hefty maul and a robust hand cannon, and each one has its own idiosyncrasies, including unique weapon gauges that allow you to inflict heavy damage when a certain requirement has been met. By attacking and performing combos with the katana, for example, a gauge fills up that, when full, lets you trigger Unbound mode, transforming the sword into a bladed whip that deals additional damage for a short period of time. Elsewhere, the Karakuri Staff can mutate between five different forms: a staff, polearm, shuriken, double blades, and the building-sized juggernaut blade, while the Bladed Wagasa is an umbrella with an emphasis on counter-attacks and airborne moves.
Most of these weapons are rather straightforward--with a couple of exceptions--but any lack of depth is alleviated by how they synergize with the various Karakuri. The slow, lumbering Nodachi's lack of mobility isn't as much of a problem when you can use springs to quickly maneuver around a Kemono, just as crates and gliders give you ample opportunity to unleash the katana's powerful jumping attacks. Karakuri feels like an extension of each weapon, offering additional offense, defense, and mobility. Crafting the starting version of each weapon type is also relatively cheap, and there's a training area that explains how to perform each attack and special move, so Wild Hearts makes it easy to experiment, learn, and decide which killing tool is right for you. The weapon upgrade tree is fairly restrictive, however, making you fight the same low-level monsters over and over again before you can craft some of the more powerful armaments.
Whatever weapon you choose, Wild Hearts' action is thrilling if familiar. There's a palpable sense of weight behind each weapon swing, and you need to consider when to attack so you're not locked into an animation when you're forced to roll out of danger. Slicing off monster parts is always gratifying, and the orchestral score conveys a sense of wonder and terror in equal measure, often evoking classic Japanese cinema with its use of traditional instruments which contributes to each battle's awe-inspiring nature. There's also a lock-on system that makes it easier to target specific body parts, but it has trouble keeping up with the action, often blocking your view with the floor or other nearby objects, so it's more frustrating than anything.
Of course, the Kemono themselves play a pivotal role in how enjoyable it is to cut them down to size. Each one is a giant, mutated version of familiar wildlife, from rats and boars to gorillas and crows. Crucially, these rampaging beasts are also fused with nature, able to strike at you with fetid fungus spores and twisting roots that violently emerge from the ground. Each Kemono presents a different challenge, and learning the best strategies to take them down is a rewarding experience that encourages the full use of your extensive repertoire.
The monster designs are solid from a visual point of view, but this isn't commonplace across the rest of the game. Wild Hearts is set in the fictional land of Azuma, which is inspired by feudal Japan. Each location has a distinct flavor, oscillating between the verdant rolling hills of Harugasumi Way, the craggy barnacle-encrusted beaches of Natsukodachi Isle, and the once-impenetrable Fuyufusagi Fort, which now lies in ruin amidst a neverending winter. There are some beautiful sights to behold, but also plenty of others that fail to flatter due to the abundance of low-resolution textures and a general blurriness. I mention this because, despite appearances, Wild Hearts also struggles when it comes to performance.
My PC setup exceeds the recommended system requirements, yet stuttering and frame rate issues were a nuisance throughout my playtime. Thankfully, these hitches didn't occur quite as often during combat, but I still encountered a few moments where the game would freeze for a few seconds at a time. Lowering the graphical settings didn't alleviate these technical shortcomings either, since it still performed the same at both the lowest and highest presets. A couple of updates have already yielded minor improvements, and Omega Force says more fixes are on the way, so the hope is these issues will soon be a thing of the past.
The core gameplay loop of Wild Hearts doesn't deviate too far from the formula established by Monster Hunter, yet the surprising decision to center it all around a fast-paced building mechanic is a stroke of ingenuity. The Karakuri system elevates each individual part of Wild Hearts. Combat, traversal, and co-op are all improved by its presence and the way Karakuri is weaved into each component. There are some notable shortcomings that hold it back, especially when it comes to technical performance, but Wild Hearts is a welcome entry in a genre that's otherwise dominated by a single series.
Horizon Call of the Mountain and PlayStation VR 2 are inextricably linked. The Guerrilla- and Firesprite-developed title is a successful virtual reality game thanks to the tech housed in the PSVR 2, and the PSVR 2's capabilities are best showcased by the game. Admittedly, the barrier to entry for experiencing it all is very high: You'll need to own a PS5, purchase the $550 headset, and then get the $60 game on top. But those who do will be treated to a game that's an impressive technical showpiece and an enjoyable Horizon game in its own right.
Call of the Mountain takes place in the same vibrant setting that you're used to exploring as Aloy. However, for this game, the protagonist is Ryas, a member of the Shadow Carja who has been imprisoned for questionable actions. Ryas is busted out of prison and sent on a perilous journey to figure out why the machine animals of Horizon's worlds are acting out.
This is a familiar narrative beat for a Horizon game, and a lot of the story is carried by Ryas. Ryas' brother went missing while also trying to solve this particular mystery, so he has a personal stake in going out of his way to help those around him in order to figure out what's going on, even if the people he's working withtreat him like an outsider. My interest in Call of the Mountain was primarily in seeing how it utilized the new hardware, so it caught me by surprise when I found myself invested in Ryas as a character. The game does a great job of slowly unpacking his story and showing that there may have been more to his history than it initially seems.
He also serves as a good tour guide. As you clamber around towering structures, be they derelict buildings or rusting metallic behemoths of old, and explore different parts of the world, he'll occasionally offer context and history to provide further color to the landscape around you. He's not the scholarly type, so much of what he talks about comes from the perspective of someone who has heard tales of battles or knows aspects of other cultures. It's a nice balance that means you're constantly being told things while also letting Ryas act as a stand-in for you. He also questions some of his own preconceptions about things he has always been told or believed, and--as a member of the maligned Shadow Carja--watching his small steps of growth across the journey is interesting, even if it isn't profound.
Ryas might not be a learned man, but he's certainly a capable one, as becomes evident when you're tasked with scaling structures and battling enemies. Ryas is a Climber and, as the title of his profession suggests, he's all about climbing. This is achieved through the Sense controllers, which--as mentioned in our PSVR 2 review--are very capable input devices that, in addition to all the buttons, triggers, and analog sticks you'd want to be able to properly engage with a game, include finger-tracking. Call of the Mountain maps your real hands to the virtual ones and then empowers you to grip onto climbable edges (highlighted in white) by holding down the triggers and physically moving your real arms to shift your virtual character around.
Virtual reality climbing games are a dime a dozen--it's a very familiar mechanic--and there's nothing here that really pushes the mechanic forward. That said, it's executed very well. The Sense controllers make the act of clambering feel tactile and satisfying, and the PlayStation 5 and the PSVR 2 headset render the world around you with a fidelity compelling enough to instill a sense of tension and peril as you move around.
As I scaled cliffs, shimmied across dangling ropes, and leaped across large gaps, I was cognizant of where I looked because, at times, I got vertigo when looking down. On the odd occasion where my virtual hands didn't properly grasp a handhold or ledge, I always had a sense of terror wash over me, even if it was very brief since the game is quite forgiving about correcting or using your other hand to panic recover. That sense of danger was particularly potent in situations that required me to take a running jump off an edge, or use a tool to swing across a chasm--my tip: Don't look down.
Generally, that feeling of being connected to the world through the Sense controller and PSVR 2 headset held true in other interactions. My chosen movement method in Call of the Mountain involved moving my arms up and down to simulate walking, which sounds stupid and looks stupid, but felt like a good middle ground between instantly teleporting and directly controlling the character. The latter of those is available as an option, but I found it to be nauseating, literally. There are a variety of other options available that allow you to tweak how your character moves and turns, so you may be able to find the sweet spot for you.
Combat changes the setup to be more on rails, with the player being able to move along a predefined path on the battlefield. Usually, it's just a big circle around the arena, and you're either dodging the attacks of nimble Watchers while trying to fire arrows into their eye, or desperately trying to get out of the way of a rampaging Thunderjaw. Horizon's encounter design, which is built on attacking weak points to strip metallic beasts of their armor and the mechanisms that allow them to do deadly attacks, works very well in Call of the Mountain. Most engagements are a dance of dodging fireballs, gunfire, tail swipes, and claw strikes, using your senses to identify the most vulnerable spots, and letting loose a flurry of arrows to bring them down. Again, bow and arrow mechanics in a VR game are hardly new or innovative, but it's executed very well. There's a layer of strategy in selecting the best type of arrow for the enemy you're facing, and then having the wherewithal to quickly reach over your shoulder and pull it out while trying to avoid damage.
The real star of the show, however, is the visuals, and by extension, the immersive quality of playing Horizon Call of the Mountain. Again, this is a collaborative effort between the game and the hardware it's running on--both the PS5 and the PSVR 2. Call of the Mountain is one of the best-looking VR games I've ever seen, and being in its world is a genuine thrill--whether I was up close looking at the details on tools I was crafting to aid me on my journey, or marveling at a distant vista of verdant trees, rushing waterfalls, and collapsed architecture reclaimed by nature. At every turn and climb, there's something impressive to see, whether that's the world or the creatures that inhabit it. And it's even more impressive when the bigger set-pieces come into play, so it's easy to get caught up in just seeing the sights. As a result, Call of the Mountain ticks the box for that other kind of VR game that exists in abundance: the virtual tourist experience. Again, it's nothing new, but Call of the Mountain does it very well, transporting players to a world they're familiar with, but allowing them to experience it with an unprecedented level of intimacy.
The ongoing refrain of "familiar done well" is the defining quality of Call of the Mountain. There's nothing revolutionary in the game that moves VR gaming forward and it doesn't do anything unexpected, so it ends up being exactly what it looks like: a well-made Horizon game in VR that has good climbing and shooting, as well as pretty environments to look at. As a showcase of what can be done with the PSVR 2, it more than handily serves its purpose.
Since the franchise's introduction in 2012, the Theatrhythm games have masterfully capitalized on the Final Fantasy series' incredible soundtracks. Using a gameplay system that's approachable yet deceptively challenging, while also mixing iconic scenes from past games in the background, the games act as a playable portfolio of FF's most memorable moments. Final Bar Line is speculated to be the final game in the Theatrhythm series, at least for a while, and if that's true, it's an incredible final act.
Theatrhythm Final Bar Line presents 385 music tracks from across the Final Fantasy spectrum, with a healthy mixture of fan favorites and deep cuts spread out across 29 different categories. After selecting a song, players will press buttons along to its rhythm via three types of notes: red, which requires a single button press; yellow, where a button press is paired with flicking the joystick in a designated direction; and green, which must be held for as long as the green bar is present.
This traffic light-esque system sounds simple, but it can be downright devilish in practice, especially on higher difficulty levels. Keying in on which parts of the song the notes are corresponding to can be tough, especially with compositions as complex as what longtime composer Nobuo Uematsu and his peers have devised over the years. That said, it's still immensely fun being able to interact with these iconic songs in this way, as I found my whole body moving to the beat while I tapped along on the controller.
There's one small foible about these notes that I must mention, as it's easily what's given me the most trouble--not only in the game, but throughout the entire franchise. During a green note, when the end of the strip is reached, the button must be released in rhythm with the song as well, and the timing of the release affects your note streak. I've lost more streaks to this than anything else, simply because my brain is tricked into thinking I'm supposed to hold the note until the next note hits. It's a novel little mechanic that ups the challenge, but also ups the frustration until it starts to feel more natural.
To say that the 385-song library of Final Bar Line is extensive is an understatement. The greatest hits from the series are here--Zanarkand, multiple versions of One Winged Angel, Melodies Of Life, etc.--but there are some unexpected tracks that do a wonderful job of exploring the full breadth of Final Fantasy's portfolio. There's a track from The Star Onions, a band created by composer Naoshi Mizuta that strictly covers FFXI music. There are also a few songs from the electronica remix albums SQ Chips and More SQ. Even a pair of FFVII arrangements featured in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate--Cosmo Canyon by Yoko Shimomura and Aerith's Theme from Keichii Okabe--are here. This is an anthology of music rarely seen in one place, and having all of these great tracks together is much appreciated.
Each song fits into one of three different formats, or what the game refers to as "Music Sequences." The first is Battle, where each note appears in one of four different static rows on-screen. I found Battles to be the easiest of the three sets, as even though notes were coming quickly from left to right, I was able to focus on the target area and time my presses to them more efficiently than the other Sequences. For veterans of rhythm-based games, Battle Music Sequences felt like Guitar Hero or Rock Band to me, and that familiarity helped out in the long run.
Event Music Sequences flip the rows from horizontal to vertical, with notes approaching from the top of the screen while scenes ripped right from the source material play in the background. Where Battle felt like Guitar Hero, Event's new format looks the most like those classic rhythm games. This is a change from previous Theatrhythm games, where the notes used to scatter around the screen so I could tap and watch at the same time. I can still watch the scene as the notes fall, however, the vertical movement felt off despite how familiar it looked, and I found myself missing notes more often here than in Battle. I understand the idea behind the change, but I wish Event Music Sequences had kept the unique scattered notes motif of previous games.
Field Music Sequences go back to horizontal notes, but this mode also incorporates sliding green notes, where players must hold the joystick up or down to hit the little dots inside the green strip. I suspect many will develop a love/hate relationship with this format, as the sliding can turn even the slowest and most melodically simple track into a challenge. Of all three formats, this was the one that caused the most restarts, as the sliding target caused more confusion for me than the other modes' static rows. I did eventually wrap my head around it, and when that happened it was marvelous, but the learning curve is higher than the other modes.
Most of Theatrhythm's songs need to be unlocked, and that happens in the Series Quest mode. Here, a party of four characters will walk through each game's story via its music, while also showcasing the important moments in each game. As more games are unlocked via Series Keys earned during the playthrough, more characters can be unlocked for the party. Completing songs earns experience points for each member of the party, and leveling up earns new abilities for those characters as well. Completing a special objective in each song also unlocks a CollectaCard, which gives access to screenshots and other items in the Museum mode.
When Series Quests are finished, every unlocked song can be played again in the Music Stages list. Custom playlists can be created and played without pause from start to finish, which opens up even more ways to challenge yourself. The other main gameplay mode is Multi Battles, where up to four players play through a song and compete for high scores, but the core gameplay doesn't see any major changes. These modes, while enjoyable, involve playing the same songs as those in the Series Quests, so they don't add much to the game outside of different ways to experience the same music.
Theatrhythm Final Bar Line is the apex of the Theatrhythm spin-off franchise. Its vast and varied library of music is a nostalgic thrill, the gameplay is approachable while offering plenty of challenge, and the sprinkling of RPG elements like party customization offers a personal touch--even if that touch isn't super impactful. There's something here for everyone, from the staunchest Final Fantasy fan to the person who only knows Cloud and Sephiroth from Smash Bros. There are a few minor missteps along the way, but none of them create any major malfunctions in the experience. Simply put, Theatrhythm Final Bar Line is a master-class symphony of fun and nostalgia, and it is a game worthy of the music library it features.
PC version update: Returnal might have taken slightly longer than other PlayStation-exclusive titles to finally reach PC, but this engaging blend of fast-paced third-person action and roguelite progression could not feel more at home on its new platform. Aside from unlocking new levels of performance not possible on the PlayStation 5, Returnal arrives with some welcome new visual settings, an array of settings for display and upscaling options, and a bar-setting benchmark tool that helps you fine-tune performance far better than any other I've ever used.
Returnal is a technical showpiece on the PS5, with remarkably rich art direction making each of the six distinct biomes a pleasure to explore. Its bright, neon particles and large, deadly projectiles flood environments and bathe them in a variety of colors, accentuating the exhilarating, fast-paced gunplay. On PC, it's action that's still best enjoyed with the controller it was ultimately designed for, the DualSense. If you use one with your PC setup, and you use it wired, you'll have full access to the same control scheme that was present on the PS5, including its marvelous use of the adaptive triggers to augment primary and secondary fire. It's just fine on any other controller, too, with appropriate button mapping making the gameplay feel just as natural. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the responsiveness of a mouse and keyboard feels transformative to Returnal, allowing me to zip around rooms and pull off deadly accurate shots with ease. Whichever way you choose to play, Returnal feels fantastic on PC.
Returnal's gameplay lives and dies on responsiveness, making anything below 60fps almost impossible to recommend. With that in mind, it's good that overall hardware utilization and the scalability of the four graphical presets allow for a wide range of hardware configurations to get the best out of the action. It was easy enough to attain performance in excess of 60fps playing on both my RTX 3080 Ti and RTX 3050, with the latter handling the action just fine with most settings dialed up at 1080p.
The additional capability of the RTX 3080 Ti can be used to power other settings such as ray-traced shadows and reflections, although the range of image-scaling options certainly helped in this regard. Nvidia's DLSS (without DLSS 3's frame-generation) and AMD's FSR are present as expected, but developers Housemarque and Climax Studio have also added Nvidia NIS (a linear image scaling technique similar to AMD's FSR that is platform agnostic), Adaptive and Linearly Scaled Resolutions options, and Variable Rate Shading (an option that reduces shading on unimportant parts of the current frame, reducing hardware demand). Having FSR and DLSS is somewhat expected of a good PC port today, but the addition of the rest is a welcome surprise that should give you plenty of avenues to try and hone in performance.
Aiding in that endeavor is Returnal's best-in-class benchmark tool. Usually, these are nothing more than a way to see how a game might run at a specified settings preset, but Returnal's goes a step further by breaking down each aspect of the game that it's testing. From its particle system to thick volumetric fog, each scene bundles certain visual settings together and tests them specifically, allowing you to see exactly how your hardware is coping. The results screen at the end lets you scrub through each of these sections while also informing you which parts of your system are being tested in each one. This is invaluable in figuring out which settings to change to boost performance efficiently, and which likely won't make a difference, taking out a lot of guesswork typical of this process.
Sadly, no matter how much time you spend tinkering with settings, Returnal is currently a bit too much for the Steam Deck to handle. I attempted to run the game on its lowest graphical preset, at a resolution slightly lower than native, and with FSR set to Performance (thus rendering the game at 50% of its resolution), and it was impossible to maintain a stable 30fps, nevermind anything close to double that. This was in some of the least-demanding early sections of the game, meaning the later chaotic ones would likely fare even worse. Returnal hasn't been officially certified for Steam Deck yet, so there's the possibility this could change, but it could be just too much for the portable device to ever handle.
There is one facet of Returnal's gameplay that its robust benchmark misses, however. Loading between each new procedurally-generated room that you enter routinely caused a large stutter, irrespective of which settings I was using. It was generally abrupt enough to plummet my framerate down from the mid-90s to somewhere in the 30s for a second, which was more than enough to make it distracting. Given the speed at which you're making your way through Returnal's biomes, having this happen consistently was incredibly distracting, and not something I would've expected given the game was installed on an incredibly fast Samsung 980 Pro SSD.
Although the performance on Steam Deck is disappointing and the consistent hitches are an annoyance, Returnal is another great port of a previous PlayStation 5 exclusive. It opens up the intoxicating gameplay loop to a new audience while offering all the bells and whistles expected of a modern PC port, with the addition of a remarkably robust benchmark tool and an impressive amount of graphical and rendering settings to fine-tune performance. Returnal has long been one of the best PS5 games, and now it could stand as one of the best on PC, too. -- Alessandro Barbosa
You can read our original review of the PS5 version, published on April 29, 2021, below.
Returnal is a hard game to pin down. On the one hand, it is very much a pastiche of existing game genres: Play one run and you will see how it very clearly draws elements from roguelikes, Souls-likes, metroidvanias, action-platformers, bullet hell shooters, and horror games. But while it borrows from all those genres, its unique flow ensures that its chaotic shooting galleries and creepy storytelling feel decidedly new. A shifting, but not jarring pace, an unpredictable narrative, tough-as-nails gameplay, and a constant sense of ambient terror--Returnal's many moving parts coalesce into a rare shooter that grabs you with its mechanics and its story and never lets go, seducing you with its challenges and a foreboding sense of dread every step of the way.
When you start Returnal, interstellar scout Selene Vassos crash-lands on an alien planet, Atropos, which is broadcasting a mysterious signal. Stranded, Selene makes some startling discoveries on the planet, including the game's titular trait: When she dies, Selene "returns" to the site of the crash, seemingly unharmed. To explain much more would give away too much: You want to know as little about Returnal and its story as you can going in.
Yes, "return" is in the name, which is a not-subtle-not to Returnal’s run-based structure. It falls into the broader definition of a roguelite--Selene starts each run from the crash site but holds a few key upgrades and one of two in-game currencies from run to run. Everything else, including her weapon, "artifacts" that provide passive upgrades, and consumables like healing items disappear with each death. Selene wanders through the procedurally arranged and populated landscapes of Atropos hoarding gear, upgrading her health and weapon level (called proficiency), and gunning down the planet's strange-looking, tentacle-wiggling creatures, all of which want you dead.
Though some swipe at you with teeth, claws, and the aforementioned tentacles, most of your enemies have the ability to shoot some kind of bright, colorful projectiles at you. In a large combat arena, the room very quickly fills with a gauntlet of neon orbs and beams of light for you to sidestep, jump over, and dash through. Each enemy species has its own bullet type with a predictable pattern to learn, but when you put four or more together, even the simple enemies can create complex, beautiful light shows that will put you down if you aren't at the top of your game. Unlike most "bullet hell" shooters, where you're looking down from overhead, Returnal puts projectiles in your face and makes you react quickly and gracefully. That can be a challenge: Sometimes the number of bright beams and orbs on screen gets so unwieldy, it feels impossible to keep up. The only way to make things more manageable is to kill your enemies, so you're constantly planning your offense and defense--looking for a route to safety, while also taking aim and whittling down the opposition.
Returnal’s combat mechanics reward players who can perfectly dodge enemy attacks while keeping their composure. With every kill, Selene builds up adrenaline, which provides temporary bonuses, like a more powerful melee attack and a glowing aura that makes enemies easier to see, so long as you don’t take damage. There’s also an active reload mechanic, which helps you dish out as much bullet hell as you take. Given the ridiculous number of bullets you have to avoid at any given time, it can be tough to work in a quick reload between dodges. In fact, it pays to know when to skip a reload, rather than risk delaying your next attack. More importantly, it’s an easy and very tangible way to see your skills improve run to run.
Selene can find a small but nicely varied array of guns for herself, as well as artifacts, which offer passive upgrades. Her arsenal ranges from classic pistols and assault rifles to the Electropylon Driver, which fires posts that generate laser beams between them, allowing you to trap an enemy in a deadly laser grid. Each weapon type also comes with randomly assigned perks, which you unlock by killing enemies and which persist across runs. As your weapon level grows, the weapons you find have better stats, along with more and better perks. And you always have a sword, which lets you disable enemy shields and can quickly dispatch enemies who get in close. When you have a strong understanding of your tools, you can find a rhythm for working any combat scenario that’s specific to your build.
Not every upgrade is entirely a blessing. Many of the items and chests you'll find will be "malignant," so picking up or opening them will incur a temporary penalty until you complete an objective. For example, you may do half as much damage with your sword until you use two consumable items, like a temporary shield or a healing item. You'll also find parasites, which impose both an upgrade and a debuff, and can't be switched out without a special item or device found in the world. While you can simply avoid any items with potential negative impact, it's hard to build up power without them, so the quest to make a winning build often forces you to make some smart compromises and, occasionally, roll the dice to increase your prowess.
This wide range of weapons and gear is both a blessing and a curse: On the one hand, you'll never have to run the same strategy twice. On the other, your success is largely contingent on finding the right stuff. This is true in most roguelites to some degree, but it's especially prevalent here: When I had the right gear, I was unstoppable. When I didn't, I struggled to make even incremental progress.
You also have to flex your beam-dodging skills with a fair amount of complex platforming. Many rooms will tempt you with items guarded by laser grids or long trails of small platforms. Returnal's controls are tight and responsive, so you have the tools you need to navigate even when the timing is extremely tight, assuming you have the precision and reflexes to master them. (And Reader: I didn't always have them). Having traps, obstacles, and hidden rooms to find in every run means the act of exploring never feels wasteful or boring. You're always desperate for more health or that next upgrade, and even when you come to know the shape of every pre-fab room, there's always a sense that you don't know what might be around the next corner.
Though Returnal's basic mechanics fall within the broad specifications of a roguelite, it features more ways to make permanent progress than your average run-based game. Though they change with every life, each zone follows a loose basic structure with a main path and branching side paths. On your first time through each zone, you'll come across a barrier on the main path that you can't breach, either because you need a key or a movement ability you don't have, like a grappling hook or an item that lets you explore underwater. This will lead you down a secondary main path that, once completed, you will not need to repeat on future runs. The result is a shifting and changing micro-run: To reach the next objective, you'll need to play through the next 2-4 hours of the game without dying to advance the story, but you won't need to complete every step on a winning run.
It creates a balance between the endurance-based challenge of the traditional roguelite, where you not only need to succeed, but to do so well enough that you can continue on, and the extreme challenge put forth by the bullet hell-style shooting galleries you have to conquer. It also opens the door for Returnal's many challenging boss fights which, in typical Souls-like fashion, asks you to fight giant, daunting enemies that can literally fill the screen with waves of attacks that are as beautiful as they are deadly. No matter the challenge, progress always feels attainable, removing some of the sting from the repetitive, unforgiving nature of the run-based structure.
Moreover, on a narrative level, mixing up your objectives helps create a sort of fog around your goals. You always know the way forward, but what you're actually doing changes over time. Between the shifting maps and the ever-changing objectives, you’re never quite sure where you’re headed, which feels nerve-wracking. That doesn’t necessarily mean you’re lost--the way forward is almost always clear--but your lack of awareness fosters a general sense of confusion that amplifies this undercurrent of discomfort that washes over you while exploring Atropos.
I wouldn't describe Returnal as a horror game, exactly, but it is consistently spooky and occasionally terrifying. You don't get much about Selene, the planet, or why she's there early on, but the mystery is constantly at the forefront of your mind. You receive a drip-feed of information from run to run through audio logs, monologues, and cutscenes, which you find by exploring the different rooms that pop up as you make it closer and closer to your goal. Scouring each area many, many times is crucial to getting the full story, as new notes appear as you make it further in the world and uncover other secrets.
Returnal uses that lack of information aggressively, frequently showing you images and referencing events for which you have no context, all in service of creating a slippery understanding of Selene, a nightmarish impression of Atropos, and a mystique around the true nature of your mission. From its first moments, it's clear that something is very wrong, but you have no idea what it is or how it might manifest next. The need to know what's going on never leaves your thoughts, even as it instills a strong sense of ominous dread.
The "horror" of Returnal is largely sequestered to the narrative of the game, but there are a handful of playable story sequences where it comes through front and center. From time to time, Selene will find an area with her home from Earth, a literal American house, just sitting in the middle of the wilderness. When the time is right and she enters the house, you're put into a short, first-person sequence that focuses on narrative and mood. You have no guns, no real control over what to do, and you're subjected to some spooky events that teach you more about the world, while sending shivers down your spine.
Returnal uses the tech of the PS5 to give you tons of sensory feedback that connects you to the world and amplifies your general state of confusion and fear. When playing with headphones on--and I strongly urge you to do so--you can hear the sounds of creatures rustling through the underbrush and howling in the distance all around you, giving you the sense that you could be attacked at any time. In the heat of combat, using surround sound gives you the chance to keep track of enemies and their attacks by ear. Using the DualSense'’s haptics, you can feel the rain hitting Selene'’s space suit and other environmental effects. Certain weapons perks will also add resistance to the triggers to change how the gun fires, which helps create a tactile connection to the game. (Though, it can be annoying to suddenly find you need to press the trigger twice as hard to fire your gun.)
Returnal is constantly unsettling and consistently challenging. Its mysterious story and demanding action feel intense, urgent, and fresh. The fast-moving combat manages to appear incredibly daunting, bordering on overwhelming, without ever actually becoming insurmountable. Every moment is a rush, either because you just barely evaded a giant purple laser or because you have no idea why there's an Apollo-era astronaut following your every move. Do you need to be a little brave to play Returnal? Yeah. Do you need to be glutton for punishment? It helps. They say that anything worth doing should scare you at least a little bit. I'm not sure if that's always true, but Returnal makes a strong case.
Tomb Raider Reloaded, on paper, sounds like every mobile gaming detractor's worst nightmare. A successful IP coming to mobile via a simple gameplay loop, coupled with a currency-laden enhancement system, should be the formula for another example of the worst of what mobile offers. Why then, after hours of fighting through dungeons and avoiding traps with Lara and her crew, am I so interested in coming back for more? Tomb Raider Reloaded sounds like it should be the next mobile disappointment, but instead it offers plenty of dungeon-delving fun.
Tomb Raider Reloaded follows longtime series lead Lara Croft as she plunders for hidden treasure all across South America. Each location on the world map offers multiple stages--from 10 to upwards of 50--where players must help Lara dodge traps and/or fight enemies in order to get from the bottom of the stage to the door at the top. Swiping on the screen will have Lara move through the stage in the direction of the swipe, and whenever she stops moving, she'll open fire on the nearest enemies to her. After every stage is complete, multiple rewards are given to the player, who can use them to upgrade Lara and purchase supplies before moving onto the next location.
It's a simple structure, but that simplicity belies a devilish challenge as Lara runs through each stage. Health carries over between stages, which means Lara can't heal unless she finds a healing item. Sometimes the randomly generated room will be a "safe room" where Lara's companion Anaya will offer a quick heal, but this is a temporary oasis. There's also no way to predict when a crewmate might show up, as each stage is procedurally generated, which means no two visits to one location will ever be the same. What's more, as mentioned before, Lara only attacks when she's standing still, so situations where enemies get too close for comfort are common occurrences.
All of these factors, when applied in tandem, makes it feel like I'm actually exploring a hidden dungeon. There's a prevailing sense of curiosity, with every completed challenge leading to the next chance to discover something new. I'm reminded, in a sense, of the first time I played The Legend Of Zelda: A Link To The Past, where every door I walked through came with an equal sense of wonder and dread. Now, these dungeons are not nearly as complex as those in Link To The Past, and I do not want to give the impression that this is Tomb Raider's version of it. Rather, while playing through a set of stages in Tomb Raider Reloaded, I was reminded of that classic title and what feeling it evoked.
Link To The Past isn't the only game I was reminded of while playing Tomb Raider Reloaded, however. Completing individual stages grants experience and when leveling up, I'm able to choose a power-up from a selection of three, with some being stackable throughout the run. If this sounds like something out of last year's smash hit Vampire Survivors, that's because it's very similar.
Mixing and matching these power-ups through the different stages is incredibly fun. Watching Lara turn from a slow-shooting, limited damage-dealing explorer to an unstoppable killing machine thanks to my choices always gave me a real joy, especially when a power-up I didn't think I would like ended up being the strongest in my arsenal.
Where Tomb Raider Reloaded starts to become less enjoyable is in its currency system, as it applies some of the worst elements of the stereotypical "mobile game." There are currencies that can be earned in-game and those that can be purchased, with repeated "offers" on "deals" sprinkled throughout. Some rewards are free after agreeing to watch an ad, which usually takes up the entire screen and can only be skipped by tapping a symbol the size of a pinhead.
Perhaps the worst of the bunch are the "tickets," which look like plane tickets but are actually the dreaded energy mechanic from other mobile titles. Tickets are a finite resource, and when they've run out no progress can be made until they regenerate or I purchase them with Gems, which of course are the game's premium currency. It's all icky, predatory mobile shenanigans, but admittedly what's seen here is tame compared to other examples I've seen. Tickets always seemed to last as long as I wanted to play each session, and I never felt like I had to pay real money in order to progress in a meaningful way.
These currencies can be used to buy other currencies or to unlock and upgrade different pieces of gear, including new outfits for Lara, helmets that enable ultimate attacks, and amulets that offer stat boosts. Weapons can also be purchased and upgraded, which gives Lara options like double pistols, a shotgun, double SMGs, etc. There's a lot being offered, and a lot of different ways to pay for it, and while it is disheartening, it's at least not debilitating.
While ads are annoying and pop-ups after completed missions can be frustrating, while I'm navigating through the game's monsters and traps, the built-in microtransaction system feels more ancillary than essential. I haven't spent a cent in the app as of this writing, and yet I've completed missions, earned a ton of gold and other rewards, and have been able to upgrade Lara and change her arsenal to my liking. Other games with more intrusive systems will scream and shout at me to check out ads or buy more supplies, but here, when those ads pop up, they don't interrupt active gameplay, nor do they linger when I skip them.
Apropos of the franchise it portrays, when I dig below the currency-ridden surface of Tomb Raider Reloaded and see what's really on offer, there's fun to be had. Dungeon crawling with an increasingly powerful Lara Croft is a blast, while watching her continue to grow more powerful with each level up allows for experimentation with combat in a manner that few other mobile titles do. It's not perfect--microtransactions continue to be an annoying sticking point in the mobile realm--but Tomb Raider Reloaded does a good job of taking the undesirable parts and making room for what this game does incredibly well. Despite a few pitfalls, Tomb Raider Reloaded is worthy of the moniker it holds, with fun mix-and-match gameplay and an ever-changing challenge waiting to be excavated.
In 2014, Ubisoft released Valiant Hearts: The Great War, a game that stood out by virtue of it being a smaller, more intimate tale amidst its many more action-oriented brethren. Instead of explosive set pieces and main characters that doubled as killing machines, the game focuses on the people who find themselves forever marked by war. Nine years later, Valiant Hearts: Coming Home continues the tale on mobile devices exclusively through Netflix, and it picks up right where the previous story left off. While a lack of challenging gameplay and a short lifespan could sink other games, brevity is used to its advantage to ensure the story hits just as hard as its predecessor..
Coming Home begins in 1917, just as American troops are entering the war for the first time. Familiar faces Freddie and Anna return, along with three new main characters: James, Freddie's younger brother; George, a fighter pilot; and Ernst, a German sailor who, through no fault of his own, finds himself an unwitting participant in the war effort.
The story is told across 19 scenes split into three chapters, which translates into about 2.5 hours of gameplay. On paper it sounds very short, but the story is efficiently told. None of the beats feel like they drag on; from the opening scene Coming Home does a remarkable job of being clear-cut with its narrative--even those designed to make the player feel uncomfortable. For example, the very first scene shows James's enlistment experience, which has him forced into racially segregated lines with one line receiving weapons and the other, James's line, being given brooms for custodial work. In another scene, the medic Ana frantically runs around a hospital healing wounded, putting the player in control as she removes shrapnel from limbs and administers bandages.
That's one of my favorite things about this game. There is neither glory nor glamour in its conflict, and triumph comes not from dominating, but merely surviving. Even when a scene lightens the mood, there's still a palpable sense of dread that something could go wrong at any given moment. Coming Home does just as well at portraying those horrors as its predecessor without reusing any major plot points.
While the story is another victory for Valiant Hearts, actually playing it doesn't always hold up. I don't think the game is poorly designed; the tasks asked of me during my playthrough, from a technical standpoint, work very well outside of the occasional misreading of a swipe or tap command. The problem is the game's 19 scenes are frequently simple and sometimes hardly interactive. Rather than obstacles, Coming Home often met me with speed bumps that require too little effort to feel engaging.
Part of that minimal effort is due to the basic control scheme. Most actions can be completed with either a swipe or a tap on the screen. When holding an item, pressing on the screen will allow you to aim and throw it. If there's a heavy object to be pushed, tapping it while the character is standing near it will have said character grab it. It usually works, albeit mindlessly. There are moments, however, where an upward swipe to climb onto an object is registered as a tap instead, which makes the character grab onto the object again. It's annoying, but it's certainly not game-breaking.
Some scenes involve walking through a small Metroidvania-style area looking for specific objectives or solving brief puzzles. Others are more linear, like the stealth missions where you must watch enemy movements and stay behind cover in order to avoid getting caught. Every once in a while the game shakes things up, either by making you pilot George's plane as he avoids obstacles like mortar shells and enemy planes--all of which attack George in sync with the game's classical music--or having you tap to the rhythm of the on-screen band like rudimentary Guitar Hero. None of these sequences is designed to hold players up for very long. In this way, it's simpler than its predecessor, but the pacing also helps the story, ultimately.
The game isn't totally linear, though it very nearly is. Each mission features hidden items that unlock journal entries depicting real-world events and items used during the war, which is a welcome returning feature from the 2014 game. However, the item placement is very obvious, which makes finding these trinkets much simpler than they could be. While the idea of hidden items fleshing out the story is nice, especially in a game dedicated to sharing a history lesson, I would have appreciated needing to work harder to find them.
I never expected to be playing a sequel to Valiant Hearts--much less playing it on mobile through Netflix--but after finishing Coming Home I realized that mobile, and by extension Netflix, does make a good place to revisit this franchise. The gameplay is simplified compared to its predecessor, which doesn't always work in the game's favor. However, the scene-based structure allows for bite-sized sessions while on the go, while the short total completion time allows for marathoning the entire game if the player chooses.
When viewed through that lens, Valiant Hearts: Coming Home is a success story. It tells an emotionally resonant story through multiple episodes, each with simple gameplay mechanics and a difficulty level that's welcoming to many players. That being said, seasoned video game veterans will notice the lack of substance in gameplay, even if they're moved by the story being told.
The very first boss fight in Hi-Fi Rush pits you against a giant robot that wants to crush and eat you. In order to defeat this mechanical titan, you need to wail on it with a guitar that's cobbled together from scrap metal, timing each of your attacks to the up-tempo beat of Nine Inch Nails' "1,000,000." Developer Tango Gameworks is obviously known for its whimsy, but it was previously confined to a horror genre that Hi-Fi Rush most definitely does not belong to. Instead, Tango's latest is a surprisingly vibrant Saturday morning cartoon of a game, capturing the spirit and electric energy of a Dreamcast or GameCube title in the best way possible. It's tremendous in almost every respect, meshing its toe-tapping combat with genuine humor and a massive helping of both confidence and style.
At its core, Hi-Fi Rush is an interesting mix between a character-action game like Devil May Cry or Bayonetta and a rhythm game. Its melee action will feel immediately familiar to anyone who's well versed in the former, as you use your Flying V guitar to pummel enemies with combos consisting of both light and heavy attacks, juggle foes in the air, and dodge out of the way of incoming danger. The best character-action games are able to lure you into a trance-like state as you gradually become more proficient at dispatching large groups of enemies, yet Hi-Fi Rush takes it a step further by baking this rhythmic flow into its very design. You can still succeed by button-mashing your way to victory, but timing your attacks to the beat of the game's soundtrack lets you dish out increased damage and clear areas in a much more efficient manner. Enemies also attack and move on the beat, making each fight feel like an improvised dance where you're the main attraction.
In order to help you find your rhythm, the whole world of Hi-Fi Rush pulsates with the beat of whatever music is currently playing, providing you with both visual and audio cues for nailing its timing. Elevators jerk up and down on the beat, computer lights blink with each snare hit, and the barriers that lock you inside combat arenas are made from equalizers that undulate along with the music. The sound of mechanical gears, steam pipes, and the thud of your own footsteps even coalesce with the soundtrack to create a harmonious noise. There are other optional visual cues you can add for extra assistance--like a metronome--but the basic timing concept remains the same throughout, even outside of its slick and satisfying combat.
Hi-Fi Rush is also refreshingly forgiving when it comes to its rhythmic traits. Your timing doesn't have to be consistently perfect throughout every battle. Each attack lands on the beat regardless, so it never feels like the game is punishing your combat performance if you mistime a string of attacks. I spent much of the game with around 60% accuracy, yet combat was still an utterly enthralling blast. This also solves one of the biggest issues with rhythm games. Typically, these sorts of games are discordant if you're off-beat. Either your performance negatively impacts the music, or you're chastised with a vexing out-of-tune clang to signal that you're playing poorly. In Hi-Fi Rush, there isn't any negative reinforcement to potentially discourage you from improving, aside from a slight hit to your score. The challenge comes from it being an action game rather than from it being a rhythm game. Your timing has to be exact to parry incoming strikes, for instance, but this is no different from any other melee brawler. You're actively rewarded for being on beat with the excited cheers of a crowd, increased damage, and a higher likelihood of achieving that coveted S-rank. Hi-Fi Rush is at its best when you embrace and play along to the pulsing soundtrack, but doing so isn't essential to your enjoyment.
This is partly because Hi-Fi Rush's combat is also impressively varied. You have a plethora of combos at your disposal--both in the air and on the ground--with more unlocking as you collect the gear pieces you need to purchase them. You can also call for assistance from a few of the pals you meet on your adventure--each one named after a different flavor of tea, for some reason. Peppermint, one of your gun-toting companions, uses a blaster to fire shots that can disable enemy shields. The game's musicality is omnipresent, too, so she fires in triplets that match the beat. Macaron, on the other hand, is essential for destroying enemy armor, yet can also be utilized to knock back smaller enemies, giving you time to focus on tougher foes. Speaking of which, larger enemies don't react to your attacks until you're able to break their stun gauge, leaving them vulnerable to being stun-locked and juggled. You can do this by dealing enough damage to crack it, or by parrying their strikes with expert timing. There's a fair amount going on, especially when you factor in the different enemy types and specific counters required to beat them, yet everything fits into this rhythmic flow and never feels overwhelming.
Hi-Fi Rush's boss battles, in particular, are a highlight. They're wildly inventive for the most part, with each one throwing a unique challenge your way. This is usually where the licensed soundtrack comes into play as well, elevating these back-and-forth clashes with tracks from the likes of The Black Keys, The Prodigy, and Number Girl. The rest of the game consists of original music that matches the game's uptempo, pop-rock theme. There are plenty of catchy toe-tappers, although I do wish there were slightly more licensed songs, just because bopping along and defeating enemies to familiar beats has such a palpable impact. Even so, it's hard not to fall in love with Hi-Fi Rush's slick aesthetic. The cel-shaded visuals are beautiful, with excellent animation and vibrant colors that pop off the screen, making it look like a comic book come to life. It oozes style, and there's a technical proficiency to it as well. Not only does it perform as smoothly as butter, but the seamless transitions from gameplay to 2D animation, to blended 3D animation, right back to gameplay, are phenomenal--and it does all of this without ever missing a beat of the soundtrack.
There's a goofy spirit and earnestness that emanates from every part of Hi-Fi Rush, and this playfulness prevents the dialogue from ever feeling too cringey. The style of writing could've been nauseating in the wrong hands, but Tango manages to make you fall in love with its ragtag cast of characters, including its rogue's gallery of bosses. Protagonist Chai might be an overconfident idiot, but he's surprisingly endearing, and the game is genuinely funny without having to resort to any irritating snark. The story is fairly straightforward as you try to put a stop to an evil megacorporation, but there are some fun twists and turns along the way, too.
The only time Hi-Fi Rush falters is in the moments between its kinetic combat. The game's platforming is generally fine, with plenty of areas off the beaten path for you to explore and find collectibles and currency. Chai's jumping is a tad floaty and imprecise, but checkpoints are incredibly lenient, so this is never really an issue. The problem is that these sections can drag on for far too long at times. When the combat is as good as it is, you just want to get back to it, but there are long stretches with nothing but traversal. To compound this issue, the game's environments are aesthetically samey at various points, too, with an overabundance of similar-looking labs and factories. This isn't a fatal flaw, but some of the other locations look incredible, so it's a shame the same creativity isn't utilized across all of its stages.
Despite these missteps, Hi-Fi Rush is a tremendous game that's equal parts explosive, joyous, and dripping with style. It feeds on the power of nostalgia by evoking games like Jet Set Radio and Viewtiful Joe with its old-school vibes and contagious energy, but it's also completely fresh and exciting in its own right. For as much as I adore horror games and have enjoyed Tango's previous output with The Evil Within series and Ghostwire: Tokyo, it's refreshing that the studio hasn't been pigeonholed into creating games within a singular genre, and can suddenly emerge one day with an infectious rhythm-action game that is sure to live long in the memory.
When a fantastic game finds itself wedged between two entries of a similar caliber, it always runs the unfortunate risk of looking a bit dimmer by comparison. Persona 3 is a macabre masterpiece--a hazy blue exploration of death and how to live life so purposefully you can one day hope to embrace it rather than fear it. Persona 5, on the other hand, exudes confidence and demands action rather than somber meditation. It is a game that doubles as a call for authenticity and the courage to rebel--to stand your ground and resist cruel authoritarians. So, with two phenomenal titles resting gently on either side of it, what does that mean for Persona 4 Golden?
As its name implies, Persona 4 Golden remains absolutely radiant. Even in 2023--and up against the polish of modern-day titles and the nostalgia we attach to those older than it--it is not only an incredible entry in the Persona series, but an incredible RPG. Persona 4 Golden's intimate nature, charming cast of characters, and idyllic setting carefully built to juxtapose its tense and horrific narrative, create an experience that is unforgettable and worthy of its critical acclaim.
As this is a brief review following Persona 4 Golden being ported to modern consoles, I won't regale you with all the same information regarding plot details and mechanics you can find in our 2012 review. No major changes have been made to the game and the high-praise given to in our review still stands. However, 11 years feels like a sufficient amount of time to reflect on parts of the game that deserved to be reexamined, for better or worse.
A part of the game that has aged incredibly well and sets Persona 4 Golden apart from its peers is its intimate scale. While it doesn't feel completely accurate to say that the game's stakes are significantly smaller--we're still talking alternate dimensions, gods, and murder here--the rural setting and tendency for all action, mystery, and tragedy to center around core group of people makes every plot beat that much punchier. Additionally, whereas Persona 3 and Persona 5 present you as an outsider in a big city, in Persona 4 you are a city boy welcomed into a small town. Rather than subsiding on dorm food or hurriedly eating curry whilst being berated, you enjoy your meals with your family and spend plenty of quality time around the kotatsu. Despite how eerie the game can be and explicit with its violence, there is a warmth that permeates and offers comfort through the hardship.
This is only amplified by how fantastic Persona 4 Golden's characters and the moments you share with them. While most RPGs have a few characters that feel lackluster compared to the rest of the party, Persona 4 has an exceptionally solid cast. Sure, you might be a Teddy hater--I totally get it if you are--but overall the characters in the game are more fully-fleshed out and personable than the majority of games out there. By the time I rolled credits, I was heartbroken that the time I spent beside them had come to an end. I wanted more animated cutscenes feeding me fan service. I longed to go to Junes with Nanako one more time, or see Yoske finally mature a bit and perhaps even ask Chie out on a date. I suppose it all boils down to, rather than feeling like you were fighting to fit in or raise social links to gain a sense of belonging, that sensation is baked right into the game's DNA. It's an impressive feat that makes it among the most charming of games I've ever played.
However, even Persona 4 Golden's charms don't lessen the impact of some of the story beats that did not age quite as well as the rest of the game. While Persona 4 is a game all about belonging and adolescents reckoning with their inner-self to become the person they long to be, both Kanji and Naoto's storylines go against this premise and don't quite make sense. Throughout the game, Kanji discovers he feels attraction towards men while Naoto repeatedly expresses his desire to present himself as a man. However, both Kanji's sexuality and Naoto's identity are ultimately written off as temporary feelings they experienced because of--wait for it--women.
Kanji states he saw men in a sexual light because he viewed women as overly critical, while Naoto reveals he chooses to present male because women don't fall in line with his perception of a cool and aloof detective. While these are the most prevalent cases of Persona 4 dismissing or outright laughing off its opportunities to explore queer identities, the game also features several additional instances of homophobic and sexist language. While we could chalk this all up to culture or call Persona 4 Golden a reflection of the times, these situations ultimately sour the game's overall experience--especially when you consider how harshly they clash against Persona 4's message of acceptance and its kindhearted characters.
Moving on from the game's setting and characters, however, I do find a few areas where I actually think more praise is in order. For example, I believe that criticism in our original review towards the game's art and slow start don't ring quite as true to me. I appreciate how ornate places feel in Persona 4 Golden--how filled to the brim every environment feels, regardless of whether it's a dungeon or a small shop. While the fidelity might not be there, the artistry is, and everything feels very intentionally designed to evoke a particular feeling, be it comfort or unease. I also think that, especially in 2023, slower starts to games are a lot more expected and accommodating, making Persona 4 Golden's slow burn far less grating than it might have been in 2012.
Over a decade later, Persona 4 Golden offers up the same warmth and radiance its name implies. The ease at which the game can leverage atmosphere and emotion is remarkable and not easily emulated. And while Persona 3 might boast a profound story and Persona 5 an abundance of style and flash, it is that intimate atmosphere--that sense of closeness and belonging--that sets Persona 4 apart from both of them. Though parts of its social commentary are ignorant and regressive, there is an underlying tenderness and sincerity that shines through most other portions of the game and make it a must-play.
Following the explosive popularity of Persona 4 Golden and Persona 5 Royal in the West, many Persona newcomers have longed for a way to easily play their moody predecessor, Persona 3. Thankfully, Atlus has now released Persona 3 Portable on modern consoles, allowing more players than ever before to experience it. As it turns out, this story is one well-worth experiencing, as it is arguably the most profound in the series. While Persona 3 Portable might lack the polish of its successors, it retains the series' signature gameplay, compelling stories, social commentary, and stylish nature Persona fans have come to know and love.
Persona 3's story begins with the introduction of the Dark Hour, a period of time that exists just after midnight and cannot be perceived by the average human. During the Dark Hour, a dungeon called Tartarus appears and unleashes shadow monsters that plague the real world by inflicting a condition known as Apathy Syndrome, an illness that causes those who have it to become despondent. Naturally, this is where you come in.
In Persona 3, you play a high school student who is recruited to fight alongside a group of exceptional teens to take down these shadow creatures and the mysterious forces behind society's collapse. You do this by using personas: powerful manifestations of the self who possess magical powers and can only be summoned during the Dark Hour. Though this premise is already enticing, the game also has a second component: When you're not fending off fiends in Tartarus, you must carefully manage your time as an everyday high school student striving to ace your final exams, make friends, and perhaps even find love. Both parts of the game have a direct impact on one another, as when you interact with people and raise your social links, you and your persona grow stronger. Conversely, when you explore dungeons, rescue civilians, and unveil the mystery of the Dark Hour, you get to see the consequences for your actions unravel in the real world.
Those familiar with the Persona series will feel right at home with Persona 3's turn-based combat system. Once in battle, you are given the ability to control either one or all of your party members as you aim to exploit your enemies' weaknesses and unleash a devastating All-Out Attack. To help expedite the process, one of your companions assists you by analyzing enemies and informing you what spells and attacks will stagger them, and which might accidentally offer them aid. While battles do become fairly routine, the game features several difficulty options for those looking to ramp up intensity as well as a speedy autobattle feature that comes in handy if you're more of the "brute strength" type.
Exploration is another element of the game that will feel like second nature to Persona fans, though without the same level of polish as later entries, it can feel a bit stale. Crawling through dungeons, while fairly breezy, quickly grows repetitive. It doesn't help that Tartarus' many floors are procedurally-generated, modular and scarcely decorated, and the various side quests you can take on add nothing to them whilst also forcing you to do some major backtracking. Fortunately, you can break up your party and send each of your three teammates to roam around a dungeon floor, expediting exploration.
However, Persona 3 Portable's greatest strengths--and weaknesses--lie in its social links and overarching story. The game is filled with a cast of interesting and thoughtful characters, beautifully brought to life with expressive character portraits, fantastic voice acting, and fun animated cutscenes. Furthermore, many of these characters' social links--and the game itself--culminate in some fairly profound moments. Akinari Kamiki's story in particular is incredibly moving and ties into the game's overall themes of life, death, and purpose in a way that makes it required viewing.
Another fantastic part of Persona 3 Portable is its optional female protagonist, a feature we've yet to see grace the series since. However, there is a big disparity in quality between the male and female protagonists' social links. The female lead's story is shockingly more narratively satisfying, while the male protagonist's perpetuates some more-than-light sexism. In the male route, every woman your age who possesses a social link is a romance option. If you wish to max out their respective social links for the persona advantages, you have to be in a romantic relationship and sleep with them. There is no way to shut them down or simply be close friends. This causes jealousy between the women, results in a whole lot of shady behavior from the male protagonist and his friends, and also just feels pretty gross.
The female lead, however, focuses on creating social links and deeper relationships with her fellow party members. Despite Shinjiro, Akihito, Koromaru, Ryoji, Ken, and Junpei all being major characters who are incredibly pertinent to the game's story, you can only explore their social links when playing the female protagonist. She also possesses the ability to simply be friends with the men if she wishes, allowing her character to max out social links without being involved with six different partners.
By comparison, the male protagonist's journey seems incredibly shallow and driven by the idea of romantic conquest more than genuine storytelling. This is made even more frustrating by how much the game pushes you to select a male character, warning the player that he is recommended for newcomers or those who wish to experience the game's original story. Regardless, a second playthrough is practically required to unlock all content and see how every social link plays out, so there is a reason to experience both stories--so long as you're okay with putting in the hours.
Though this might sound a lot like modern-day Persona games--and in many ways it is--there are some notable differences between Persona 3 Portable and the series' newer entries. Most notably, Persona 3 Portable plays a lot like a visual novel. While you do have control of your character as you explore dungeons, every other portion of the game requires you to interact with your surroundings using a cursor. This choice was made when the original Persona 3 was ported over to PSP in 2010 to accommodate the system's smaller screen size. Overall, this change is a positive thing, as the maps are sleek and easy to navigate. However, this could be a bit shocking to 3D Persona fans and there admittedly is something lost with the removal of these environments, rudimentary as they might have been.
Despite nearly two decades having passed since Persona 3 was first released, the modern-gen port exemplifies how remarkably well it holds up. Its compelling characters, flashy gameplay, replayability, and dark-yet-tender narrative make it just as much fun to play as its modern counterparts--even with its lack of polish and repetitive dungeoneering. Put simply, Persona 3 Portable dazzles, regardless of if it's your introduction to the series or merely the one you're taking for a spin as you await the next entry in the series.
World of Warcraft: Dragonflight is about coming home, in more ways than one. It's a homecoming for the titular Dragonflights of Blizzard's long-running MMORPG, who return to their ancient ancestral home to pick up the pieces and rebuild after thousands of years away. It's also a homecoming for players, who after years of languishing in WoW's unpopular Shadowlands expansion, get to return to Azeroth and all the familiar sights and sounds it holds.
Dragonflight, in that regard, is incredibly nostalgic, but not in the way you might expect. Though it without a doubt features the return of fan-favorite characters, monsters, and even gameplay systems, it never feels beholden or shackled by them. Instead, it takes those familiar elements and breathes new life into them. Whether it's the return of talent trees reminiscent of those from the game's earliest expansions, the game's updated user interface, its lack of mandatory activities, or the feeling of adventure the new dragonriding system invokes, Dragonflight miraculously feels both fresh and familiar at the same time. Even if there are some aspects of Dragonflight that could be improved, I can't help but be impressed at how a handful of new ideas, along with major facelifts to some old ones, breathe new life into Blizzard's flagship title.
Dragons, as you might expect, are the star of this new expansion. Players ride new, highly customizable Dragon Isles Drakes. The majority of the main campaign's primary characters are dragons. There's even a new dragon race, the Dracthyr, that is only playable as the new dragon-themed spellcasting class, the Evoker. The Dragon Aspects Alexstrasza, Nozdormu, Wrathion, and Kalecgos all play key roles in the game's initial story campaign. To see them all front and center for the first real time since 2010's Cataclysm expansion is part of what makes Dragonflight feel so nostalgic, signaling a return to the high fantasy of Azeroth after nearly two years of the dark, dour, and death-themed settings and characters of Shadowlands.
Even if its setting and characters feel familiar, there is no mistaking that Dragonflight brings a modern perspective to Blizzard's nearly 20-year-old MMO. WoW has long been defined by the rivalry between Azeroth's two political superpowers, the Horde and the Alliance. It was just four years ago that a massive war between the two factions nearly tore Azeroth apart in the game's Battle for Azeroth expansion. Dragonflight, however, feels almost entirely removed from the franchise's long history of inter-faction conflict.
Part of that is thanks to the story Blizzard is trying to tell in Dragonflight. The expedition to the mystical Dragon Isles, which has only recently reemerged after 10,000 years, is not a race between the Horde and Alliance to see who can colonize it first (as was the case when the two factions discovered the continent of Pandaria back in 2012) but scientific in nature. From the outset, you're told the petty differences between the Horde and Alliance are to be put aside and that violence between the groups will not be tolerated. Adventurers (aka players) are welcome to join the Dragonscale Expedition, which consists of members of both factions, not because their martial prowess is needed to wage war against their longtime rivals, but because all the artisans, scientists, and explorers coming along are bound to need a hand, and some occasional protection, while documenting the many mysteries of the Dragon Isles.
Dragonflight's themes of cooperation and exploration also stem from gameplay realities. It was earlier this year that Blizzard tore down the wall between the two factions, at long last allowing friends on different sides of Azeroth's Iron Curtain to group together for dungeons, raids, and more. To play up the idea of a faction war and insist that each and every Horde and Alliance player are mortal enemies, even while players on opposite factions are quite literally fighting side-by-side and talking to one another, would have been absurd. Blizzard, thankfully, didn't go that route, and smartly focused on aspects of WoW that have felt largely absent in recent years, namely its sense of adventure.
Dragonriding works miracles in that department. On paper, it doesn't sound like much. The ability to fly in WoW has been around since 2007, after all. But if there was ever a feature introduced specifically for a single expansion that deserves to become a new standard in all expansions moving forward, dragonriding is it. Dragonriding is fast. Very fast. As in, almost three times as fast as the game's fastest non-dragonriding mounts. But even putting aside the obvious speed advantages, it's also remarkably fun. That's because rather than effectively functioning as a passive speed buff, as the game's normal mounts do, dragonriding mounts bring actual gameplay to the table and allow you to interact with the environment in meaningful ways. Diving will help increase your speed. Flying uphill, conversely, can be a struggle. Trying to get to a high-up mountain top? Find a nearby building or uprooted tree to take off from and give yourself a little extra height as you begin your ascent. Flying is no longer just a way to get from point A to point B, but engaging gameplay all its own.
You even have abilities while dragonriding, namely a speed boost and an upward surge that helps get you off the ground. You can unlock more later, along with the power to use your abilities more often, from collecting dragonriding glyphs that are scattered throughout each of the four Dragon Isles zones. In a brilliant design choice for a game that has long held players' hands when it comes to questing and exploring its world, these glyphs are not marked on your map. Instead, when one is nearby, the game will alert you, giving you a general idea of where the glyph might be and how far away it is. From there it's up to you to ascend skyward and keep your eyes peeled. These are hardly hidden and can usually be found in high places, but it makes the act of flying through a zone all the more exciting, knowing there are meaningful rewards to be found. Better yet is that all of the glyphs are available for you to find from the moment you acquire your first Dragon Isles Drake within the first hour of the expansion. There is no max level requirement or any kind of barrier keeping you from simply spending the next hour meticulously collecting each glyph and unlocking dragonriding's full potential as soon as possible, if your heart so desires. After numerous expansions of having flying be off limits at the start and needing to be unlocked months later through an assortment of achievements and in-game accomplishments, simply having access to this new form of flying from the get-go does wonders when it comes to exploring the new world Blizzard has created.
The one downside to dragonriding is you can occasionally find yourself needing to go uphill, but without the required energy to get high enough into the air to make any meaningful progress. That results in you hoofing it on foot or simply waiting around for your dragonriding stamina meter to recharge. It's not a great feeling, but it's one that thankfully starts to happen less and less often as you discover more glyphs and unlock more dragonriding traits that help to improve the experience. Flying at high speeds passively recharges your stamina, and the ability to do so consistently and more effectively becomes easier as you find more glyphs as well, allowing you to stay skybound for longer and eliminating the need to wait around for your stamina to recharge if you play your cards right.
It was to help defeat Raszageth the first time around that the game's new Dracthyr race were originally created, before being put into a magic-induced coma by none other than Neltharion, the dragon Aspect that would go on to become Deathwing. Now, thousands of years later, the Dracthyr have awoken to a strange new world and must fight to find their place in it. Dracthyr are highly customizable, with both an elf-like "Visage" form and a dragon-form to spend hours perfecting in the game's character creator. The Dracthyr even come with a fun racial ability that automatically transforms you in and out of your Visage form depending on whether or not you are in combat. The primary downside to playing a Dracthyr from a visual standpoint is that your equipped gear while in dragon form is largely invisible, with only your shoulders and belt viewable on your character. There is a wide selection of cosmetic armor that can be equipped on your Dracthyr from the character creation screen to counteract this somewhat, but it's a remarkably odd choice (or in all likelihood a technical limitation) to have it so the majority of your gear can't be seen.
Though the new Evoker class that is exclusive to the Dracthyr isn't as instantly iconic as the other two hero classes that have been added to WoW over the years, there's no denying the Dracthyr are Warcraft through and through. Some of their abilities, like Strafe and Deep Breath, are directly inspired by WoW's most iconic dragon raid bosses, while the majority of their toolset pulls directly from the various magics associated with each Dragonflight. The DPS-focused Devastation specialization utilizes the potent offensive capabilities of the Red and Blue Dragonflights, while the healing-oriented Preservation specialization takes full advantage of the nature-focused Green Dragonflight and the time-warping magic of the Bronze Dragonflight to keep allies healthy and out of harm's way. As for how they play, they are among the most mobile classes in the game, coming equipped with a built-in slow-fall, multiple movement-speed-enhancing abilities, and even a mini version of dragonriding that they can use at any time, no mount required. In addition to sporting numerous instant-cast spells, they are also the first class to feature what Blizzard has dubbed "Empowered" abilities, which is a fancy way of saying you hold down an ability key to charge up an ability, and then let off the key to fire off the ability to devastating effect. These all together make for a class that feels more active than even the Demon Hunter, as you are constantly charging up abilities, casting on the move, darting between friends and foes, and even rewinding time. It's fun and frenetic, and choosing for how long to charge up an Empowered ability and when to release it adds another level of planning and reactivity to each enemy encounter.
If you've played any modern-day WoW expansions, you largely know what to expect when it comes to how Dragonflight's campaign is structured. You're ferried from main story quest to main story quest, working your way through each of the game's four new zones before hitting max level, after which you're granted access to things like Heroic dungeons, World Quests, and more. It's a little disappointing that for an expansion so steeped in themes of discovery, the main campaign on your first character is remarkably linear. You must complete the story campaign in The Waking Shores, for example, before unlocking the story campaign for the next zone, the Ohn'ahran Plains, etc.
There is no skipping ahead or bouncing between multiple storylines, even though each zone's main story is largely standalone and isn't influenced by the events of the story in any other. You can break off and do side quests in any zone to your heart's content (and you'll likely want to, as Dragonflight's side quests are where many of its best stories and moments can be found), but you'll eventually have to return to the linear, critical path and finish the main story if you want to start progressing your character into the endgame. It's only then that you have the option for subsequent characters of selecting the order in which you'd like to play the main story thanks to the addition of a new Adventure mode, along with the added benefit of being able to tackle various World Quests from the start. It's a welcome feature, but it wasn't that long ago that WoW expansions let players go where they wanted from the get-go. Combined with the independence dragonriding grants you, and it feels like Blizzard missed a major opportunity to inject some much-needed freedom into the game's increasingly on-rails first-playthrough campaign experience.
The four zones of the Dragon Isles themselves are a joy to journey through. Each zone is massive and built with verticality in mind in order to accommodate dragonriding, but they critically don't feel empty. Whereas many modern WoW expansions have felt the need to cram as many locations and enemies into its zones as possible, oftentimes to their own detriment, the new Dragon Isles zones feel remarkably open, alive, and lived in. The Azure Span and the Ohn'ahran Plains in particular feel like greatest-hits versions of zones from expansion's past. The Ohn'ahran Plains captures the essence of zones like Nagrand (both versions) and even the Barrens, while the Azure Span is almost like a long-lost Northrend zone, complete with the ever-lovable Tuskarr and music that invokes one of WoW's most beloved zones, Grizzly Hills. The capital city of the Dragon Isles, Valdrakken, is conveniently located high above the rest of the zones. It never gets old leaping off the city's walls on your dragonriding mount, going into a dive, and flying at high-speeds to wherever in the Dragon Isles you want to go. At max level, many of the zones have unique world events that add some great personality to them, like a giant community soup-making event at the Tuskarr village in the Azure Span or a siege to retake an ancient keep belonging to the Black Dragonflight in The Waking Shores. These kinds of events, in addition to being a great way to snag some rewards, help to make the Dragon Isles feel like real places rather than mere quest hubs.
Dragonflight feels nostalgic without falling into the common trap of focusing too heavily on what came before. The Azure Span, for example, isn't a carbon copy of any one zone from Northrend. Instead, it's inspired by the past in all the right ways while still standing on its own. The same can be said for WoW's reworked talent tree system, which takes some key inspiration from the iconic talent trees of the game's early expansions but reimagines them in a thoughtfully modern way. At first glance, they can be a little intimidating. Instead of one talent tree for your chosen class and specialization, each specialization now has two trees to contend with. One is shared across the entire class, and focuses more on useful utility like interrupts, movement-enhancing abilities, and survivability. The specialization-specific tree is where you'll get into the real meat of the new system, as you look to create a build for your specialization.
The level of freedom the new talent trees offer, especially when compared to the Mists of Pandaria-era talents that simply offered a list of multiple-choice questions, can be overwhelming initially, but each specialization tree is usually structured in a way that sticking primarily to the left, middle, or right of any tree will result in a build that synergizes relatively well. There is, of course, tons of room for more customization and fine-tuning, and I can safely say it's been a long time since I've spent hours simply staring at talents, reading about abilities, and theorycrafting builds like I've done in Dragonflight. Talents can also now be changed and tweaked at nearly any time outside of combat, and dedicated players will want to have multiple builds saved for specific situations, whether it's a particular encounter in a dungeon or a build that focuses more heavily on area-of-effect abilities. Though that kind of depth is likely to turn some players off, the ability to simply look up a guide online and import a talent build directly into the game is a nice convenience for those who don't feel like diving into the nitty-gritty details themselves.
The new talent tree system is overall a huge success, with every new level gained and every talent point spent feeling impactful in a way the previous talent system never did. Classes play largely like they have in more recent expansions, with many of the abilities on offer in each talent tree having been pulled directly from sources like Artifacts in Legion and Covenant abilities in Shadowlands. If I do have one complaint about the new talent trees, it's that many abilities that were once baseline across a class, in particular utility-focused abilities, have now become optional in each class's class talent tree. That means when you group with a Paladin, for example, you can no longer be sure that particular Paladin has access to previously class-defining abilities like Blessing of Protection, Devotion Aura, Blessing of Freedom, etc. Even if it's nice to have the option to forgo picking up every possible utility ability offered in the talent trees, in the future I would like to see more of those kinds of spells become part of each class' built-in toolkit, and instead see more new and interesting choices offered in the talent trees.
Reputation grinds have long been a part of WoW, and Dragonflight smartly overhauls those too, in a way that somehow both keeps the spirit of the old system intact while also offering something new. Instead of the standard "Neutral, Friendly, Honored, Revered, Exalted" reputation format used since the game's creation, Dragonflight uses a Renown system similar to what was seen in Shadowlands. Key faction reputations are now spread out across 25-30 different levels instead of five and require far less reputation to unlock per level, meaning you are more regularly unlocking new rewards. Critically, increasing your Renown level with these factions isn't tied to player power like they were in Shadowlands, and are largely cosmetic in nature, unlocking new transmogrification pieces for your character and customization options for your Dragon Isles Drakes. Leveling them up at your own pace is part of Dragonflight's endgame, with most side quests and world quests rewarding various amounts of reputation. There is unfortunately some key story content locked behind certain Renown ranks that run the risk of making the reputation grind feel more mandatory than it should be. Additionally, those keen on professions will want to push harder than the average player in order to unlock certain crafting recipes through the Renown system. Even with that in mind, the new system is undoubtedly a vast improvement over what has come before.
The fact that there is no player power tied to increasing faction Renown gets to another key aspect of what makes Dragonflight feel so refreshing. For over half a decade, WoW players have been living in what has now been coined the "borrowed power" or "Artifact power" era of Blizzard's MMO. This is an era where progression was not simply tied to finding better gear, but to numerous additional systems that required players to collect specific resources in order to invest and make their character more powerful. These "AP grinds" made huge swathes of content, whether it was collecting Soul Ash from Torghast in Shadowlands or completing Island Expeditions for Azerite Power in Battle for Azeroth, feel mandatory, regardless of how fun or interesting those particular activities were. All of that is gone in Dragonflight. It's almost disorienting to hit max level and not be hit over the head with weekly chores and tasks that need to be completed in order to not fall behind. But that disoriented feeling soon gives way to elation over the realization that in Dragonflight's endgame, you can simply do what you want to progress your character, instead of feeling forced to do things you don't. You can do dungeons. You can PvP. You can farm reputation and unlock various cosmetic rewards with the key factions. You can focus on professions. Nothing feels mandatory in Dragonflight when it comes to progressing your character, and that fact feels every bit as liberating as the game's dragonriding.
Speaking of professions, Dragonflight has given those a major overhaul as well, adding some much-needed complexity to a system that until now has largely gone untouched from the game's earliest days. There are now crafting-specific stats (which can be further boosted by equipping profession-specific gear and accessories), specializations, item crafting difficulty, multiple ways to improve or fine-tune your crafted gear, and more. It's definitely a little confusing diving into it all for the first time, but even if the exact reasons why a particular piece of crafted gear came out the way it did isn't 100% clear, the basics of the system--i.e. gather specific types of materials and then craft it--are the same as they've always been. There are numerous crafting-focused NPCs that can be talked to who attempt to explain how the new systems work, but I found the information they provided to not be entirely useful or not specific enough to truly help.
For those who want to solely focus on professions, doing so seems much more rewarding and viable now. That's partly due to the new work order system, where players can post items they would like to have made and provide certain materials, and which crafters can then fulfill. It's a handy system for when you want a specific item made, and it's even handier for crafters, who no longer need to spam trade chat with their wares or randomly fill the auction house with items that may or may not be wanted in an effort to make some gold. Even if professions aren't your primary focus, it still feels cool to deck out your character in profession gear and specialize in particular aspects of your chosen craft. A miner, for example, may excel at mining a particular kind of ore, or a blacksmith may be able to craft gear for one particular armor slot at a higher item level. Starting out, you won't be able to specialize in more than a few aspects of your profession at once. However, with enough time and dedication, it will eventually be possible to effectively learn all of a profession's specializations. It's still a little too early to tell how professions will shake out over the course of the expansion, but for now it feels like they are more relevant and more engaging than they've ever been for a long time, even if there is a higher learning curve associated with them than before.
Blizzard wisely decided to not fill Dragonflight with too many one-off systems and instead focus on core aspects of the game that were overdue for a shake-up. Alongside the game's talent tree revamp and an overhaul for professions, the game's user interface has also undergone a dramatic modernization in Dragonflight. The new UI is still definitively WoW (complete with gryphons, or the for the first time, wyverns, on each side of the primary action bar), but far more subdued and modern-looking. More importantly, the UI is now highly-customizable with the addition of an "Edit Mode." In this mode, nearly every aspect of the UI is able to be resized, moved, or tweaked in some form. It's great to, for the most part, no longer need a long list of fan-made add-ons (goodbye Bagnon and Bartender) and instead be able to customize your UI to your liking with just a few in-game clicks, no addon managers or fansites required. No doubt many players will still want to use some UI-enhancing addons, but it no longer feels mandatory, which is a boon for more casual or first-time players. There are still some aspects of the UI and Edit Mode that could use improvement (why in the world can't I resize the minimap or move the XP bar?), but all-in-all, they are a huge, if overdue, step forward.
The bones of Dragonflight at launch are an incredible foundation for Blizzard to build upon. Whether it's the new flow of an endgame freed from mandatory grinds or how it feels to break the speed of sound on dragonback, Blizzard's MMO is currently in the best state it's been in over half a decade. It's worth mentioning how many systems and unlocks are now account-wide in Dragonflight, which should make leveling up alt characters a far more enjoyable, and less time-consuming, experience. Dragonriding will be accessible from the start on all your additional characters once it's unlocked on your first, and dragonriding glyphs found in the world are also shared account-wide. Though you'll still need to grind out Renown on each new character, there are some systems in place to greatly speed up the process if you hit certain milestones on your main, reducing yet another pain point players have had in recent years.
But as anyone who has played WoW knows, a great expansion launch is not the be all, end all. Thankfully, Season 1, which was released a few weeks after Dragonflight's launch, delivers. Without the need to farm for additional resources like Soul Ash or Azerite, gearing is incredibly straightforward, allowing players to spend more time doing what they want to do rather than activities they feel forced to do. Dragonflight's new arena mode, Solo Shuffle, has been a blast and a great way for PvP-focused players to gear up (even if the queue times can be rough at times). The new raid boasts some fun and frenetic encounters while setting up the rest of the expansion's story nicely, and the experiment of having the first season's Mythic dungeon roster dip into older expansions (as was the case in Shadowlands Season 4) is a nice change of pace after running every Dragonflight dungeon on Heroic multiple times in the leadup to Season 1's launch. Though there are likely some players who will feel like they've run out of content, I'm of the opinion that having less "mandatory" things to do isn't a bad thing. There are always more classes to level up, old content to farm for transmog, or, dare I say it, other games to play. You shouldn't feel like you have to play 12-hours a day, seven-days a week to keep up, and so far Dragonflight has been refreshing in that regard.
In general, Blizzard seems to be hitting all the right notes in the weeks following the expansion's release. Balance updates have been more frequent than in the Shadowlands-era, whereas in years past it felt like players would have to wait months for a major patch to deliver balance changes. Updates have come more frequently to various in-game systems too, like improvements to Solo Shuffle to more effectively punish quitters. Blizzard overall seems quicker to respond to feedback, and that can only lead to good things. The future's looking bright too. Blizzard made the unexpected move of releasing an extensive 2023 content roadmap outlining all the updates players can expect over the course of the year, the first of which is arriving on January 24. Major updates in Shadowlands were few and far between, so to see a years-worth of updates laid out so far in advance, with new content slated to arrive every couple months, is breathtaking. If Blizzard can stick to its roadmap and continue to be as responsive to feedback as it has been so far, the next 12 months of WoW will be something special.
Only time will tell where Dragonflight will rank in comparison to WoW's eight other expansions, but it makes a powerful first impression, thanks both to its refreshing systems and the quality of its content. Early on in the expansion, you'll likely find a dwarf sitting by his lonesome near the Ruby Life Pools in The Waking Shore, looking out at the landscape beyond. He has a quest to give, but it's not your typical "go here, collect or kill that" style of quest. Instead, it's a quest to simply sit, talk, and listen. There is a long delay between each batch of dialogue at first, almost as if the dwarf is thinking carefully about what to say. The dwarf, it turns out, is actually an ancient member of the Red Dragonflight. He's been away from his home for thousands of years and never thought he would have the chance to see it again. As you sit and stare out into the horizon, he opens up to you, sharing painful memories of times long past. He begins to spill his heart and soul, not for your benefit, but for his.
Dragonflight is sprinkled with little moments like these that encourage you to take your time and smell the roses, so to speak. Though there are still plenty of collectathons and kill quests to complete, Dragonflight shines when it reminds you of the unique world you're in and invites you to slow down and immerse yourself in it. It's an expansion about remembering where you've come from, yet embracing what comes next. It's about coming home. Considering the quality on display in Dragonflight and all the changes that have been made to improve the core systems of Blizzard's iconic RPG, I have no doubt more than a few lapsed players that had grown tired of what Azeroth had to offer in recent years will be doing just that.
In 2003, SpongeBob SquarePants: Battle for Bikini Bottom was released and became a touchstone for a generation of children already obsessed with the cartoon. While nostalgia plays a large factor, I, like many people around my age, hold that game in high regard, even if the experience doesn't quite hold up all these years later. Now, two decades later, SpongeBob SquarePants: The Cosmic Shake has been made as a spiritual successor and, for better and for worse, it plays the way I remember Battle for Bikini Bottom.
In The Cosmic Shake, SpongeBob and Patrick stumble upon a Mermaid named Kassandra, who sells antique and mysterious items. SpongeBob purchases bubble soap that supposedly grants wishes, running around town and asking everyone he knows for their wishes. Unfortunately, all of the wishes kick in at once, tearing holes in reality and sending the citizens of Bikini Bottom off into the multiverse, with SpongeBob and Patrick left to pick up the pieces.
This opening sets up the seven levels players will explore throughout the game, each one with a different theme and environment. The aesthetic design of these levels is one of the places The Cosmic Shake shines, pulling together references to iconic episodes of the show, while adding new elements that fit within the game's story. A movie-set-themed episode combines SpongBob's obsession with karate with an action movie, and a pirate level has an enemy ship constantly firing pie bombs at you.
As for where The Cosmic Shake pulls most of its inspiration from, it stems almost exclusively from the older seasons of SpongeBob. While the show is still airing, many of the references made through the game are from the seasons I watched as a child and easily could have appeared in Battle for Bikini Bottom 20 years ago. There are a few nods to the more modern seasons of the show, specifically Plankton's pet Spot, who serves as a collectible in each level, but the majority of its jokes and callbacks are old-school. Most of these references feel well-placed and don't overstay their welcome, with one major exception.
That exception is the caveman level, where Spongebob and Patrick are sent back to the prehistoric era to try and save Squidward. This pulls directly from the episode SB-129/Karate Choppers in Season 1, where Squidward ends up time-traveling to both the past and future. In the past, language hasn't been invented yet, so everyone speaks in gibberish. What works as a small section of a half-hour cartoon overstays its welcome here. In most levels, SpongeBob and Patrick are frequently commenting on the level, spouting off jokes that mostly land, but here, it's an hour to 90 minutes of caveman speak, which really kills the game's momentum.
As for the design of the levels, The Cosmic Shake takes a far more linear approach than Battle for Bikini Bottom and this mostly works in its favor. The levels have a bit of width to them, allowing you to explore off the beaten path to find extra Cosmic Jelly, which you are tasked with collecting throughout the game. But beyond this small amount of freedom, this focus on a more linear setup allows for the platforming to shine, since there is a single defined path that can be purposefully designed around the movement skills that have been unlocked so far. SpongeBob comes equipped with a double-jump out of the gate but is quickly given far more movement abilities throughout the game, making for fluid platforming. These movement abilities make SpongeBob feel fast when they are all working together and the sections that ask you to use them all together feel incredibly satisfying.
You gain abilities like a glide, a karate kick, a ground pound, and even a grappling hook. Doling out a new ability in most levels means there is always a new mechanic to keep the game fresh, and it provides a way to hide secrets in each level for you to come back to. Levels require you to platform through them, eventually needing to find a number of objects to move further. These sections usually have an arena-like area, where you can choose which direction to start in for your collecting, but always end up at the same destination. It's a nice break from the more linear platforming sections and these sections never overstayed their welcome. Where the linear design falls flat is in the game's secrets and optional objectives.
As for combat, you use your new abilities to fight off Cosmic Jelly monsters. There are a number of different types of Jelly Monsters, and each one has a specific way to beat it. Unfortunately, as time goes on, this becomes a tedious task, especially with enemies where you have to wait for an opening. For example, the large enemies carrying bathtubs require three hits to take down, but they only take damage after missing an attack on you. By the time you fight one of these for the 10th time, it becomes more tedious to wait and hit it, which is true for other enemy types as well. There is far more platforming than combat in The Cosmic Shake, but long battles, especially late in the game, feel like a chore.
Each level caps off with a boss fight of some kind, with the exact format of the battle changing from level to level. The opening western level concludes with you chasing Mr. Krabs through a train while battling enemies, and the movie level concludes with a showdown against Sandy. None of these are particularly challenging, but they are all different and short enough to be enjoyable.
With a linear design and unlockable movement abilities, going off the main path to find a secret can have mixed results. Sometimes you find a Gold Doubloon, which is needed to unlock extra costumes, and it feels rewarding. Many times, though, you find a side objective that is locked behind an ability you don't have yet, which can feel frustrating in the moment. This is obviously meant to get you to come back through each level after beating the game, but replaying levels is where The Cosmic Shake really starts to flounder.
Since each level is linear, replaying them can feel like a slog. There are checkpoints that you can choose to start from in each level, but the game doesn't tell you where the collectibles are, just that you are missing them. This means you realistically need to run through the level from start to finish, unless you remember exactly where all the secrets were when you couldn't reach them. And if you miss one on that second runthrough, your only choice is to go for a third. There are some new challenges and sections added after completing the game, but not enough to justify a full second run through any level.
While playing The Cosmic Shake is certainly fun, its collectibles and unlockables leave a lot to be desired for one particular reason: There is no point to collecting them. While it is part of the game and platforming is fun enough to make the process enjoyable, the rewards are often lackluster. One of the main mechanics is that with each new multiverse level, SpongeBob is given a new costume to help him fit into the environment. In addition to those costumes, you can also purchase more using the Cosmic Jelly you collect after unlocking them by finding enough Gold Doubloons. The problem here is that the costumes don't impact gameplay in any way, so the novelty wears off quickly. It's cool to spot an outfit that SpongeBob wore in a specific episode, but without any impact on the game itself, they just aren't that interesting.

In addition to those disappointing costumes, the other collectibles aren't needed for anything else. The game tells you to collect Cosmic Jelly, but you don't need it to advance from level to level. If an item isn't a part of the main objective in a level, there is zero need or incentive to collect it. Once I realized this in the last few levels, I began ignoring optional platforming challenges that only appeared to reward Cosmic Jelly, since it didn't feel worth my time.
Despite a few hiccups and disappointing aspects of The Cosmic Shake design, at its core it achieves its goals. Playing it felt the way I remember Battle for Bikini Bottom playing and all of the jokes and references felt aimed at older SpongeBob fans, pulling straight from the classic episodes. There are tons of small jokes and references in the levels that will make you smile and SpongeBob and Patrick will have you at least chuckling more often than not. It's not a revolutionary platformer, but it is good enough to keep you engaged throughout the entire game's length. If you have no reverence or appreciation for SpongeBob, whether it be the old games or the cartoon, The Cosmic Shake likely won't appeal to you. But for those of us who love SpongeBob, the Cosmic Shake is a great time with some old friends.
14 years is a long time in the video games industry, yet it still doesn't feel like quite long enough for EA’s Dead Space. The original 2008 game is a modern classic that holds up exceedingly well by today's standards. There's very little that feels dated about its design, and the strategic dismemberment that forms the basis of its combat still offers a unique and gory thrill that's yet to be replicated. The remake's leap in graphical fidelity breathes new life into its stifling horror, but public discourse has centered on whether it really needs to exist in the first place. That might be a cynical viewpoint, but it's no less valid. And after reaching the end credits myself, I'm still not entirely convinced it needs to either, yet I'm extremely happy it does. Remaking Dead Space in 2023 may not feel especially necessary, but EA Motive has crafted a game that manages to improve upon its excellent progenitor in a variety of ways--even if only marginally so.
These improvements begin with its story, which has been expanded via a number of alterations to both its characters and storytelling. The basic beats that make up the original game's narrative remain intact, starting with your fateful arrival on the USG Ishimura. After responding to a distress signal, you find the hulking planet cracker-class ship floating lifelessly above the planet of Aegis VII. Once on board, things take a familiar sharp turn downhill, but now once-silent protagonist Isaac Clarke has been given a voice to react appropriately. I'm generally not a fan of silent protagonists, although there's always a danger of vocal characters being overly chatty, especially in a horror game where atmosphere and tension are so delicate. Thankfully, that's not the case here, and Isaac's newfound agency makes him feel less like a simple tool to be ordered around. Actor Gunner Wright reprises the role after bringing Isaac to life in Dead Space's sequels, so there's a level of continuity here that's also reflected in other aspects of the remake's design.
Much of the script has been rewritten to accommodate Isaac's speech, and the tale it weaves is still engaging. The church of Unitology--a cultish religious sect that plays a significant role in the Dead Space universe--is much more prominent this time around, especially early on. Characters mention the infamous church in a way that feels natural, discussing the sect before they're aware of just how substantial its impact will be on future events. Kendra Daniels--one of Isaac's colleagues and your main point of contact throughout the game--has also been rewritten in a manner that elevates the remake. Previously she was prickly and leaned into some needlessly antagonistic behavior, but she's now been transformed into an empathetic character, which pays off down the line in a more effective way than before.
Structurally, the vast majority of the remake is identical to the original game, from the hectic dash to the elevator that follows the initial reveal of the zombie-like Necromorphs, to the vital task of disabling all of the Wheezers that are poisoning the air on the Hydroponics Deck. There are a few small level design changes sprinkled throughout, however, along with some notable gameplay improvements. For starters, the zero gravity sequences now let you leap from the ground and use your suit's thrusters to freely move around each area, rather than rigidly hopping from one surface to another. Being able to essentially fly through these segments makes them much more interesting than they were before, as you're forced to deal with enemies that can attack from any angle while orienting yourself to solve various puzzles. Some of these sections, like the Ishimura's hanger, have also expanded in scope, deviating from the design of the ship's innards to give you a bit more freedom to explore. Others, like the ADS cannon repair job, have been completely redesigned to ramp up the tension, shifting from a stale turret shooting gallery to a treacherous spacewalk, and this carries over into your fights against The Leviathan as well.
If you've played Dead Space 2 before, the freedom of movement in these redesigned zero-G segments will feel instantly familiar, and this is a consistent theme throughout this remake. The addition of special upgrades for each weapon in Isaac's arsenal of mining tools has also carried over from the 2011 sequel. You can attach a mod to the Plasma Cutter that causes its ammunition to set alight anything you shoot, dealing scalding burn damage over time, while another lets you use the Disc Ripper to ricochet sawblades that slice through multiple enemies. These mods are scattered throughout the Ishimura, so you're rewarded for searching every nook and cranny of the desolate mining vessel. A new security clearance system initially locks you out of certain rooms and lockers, though, but you'll gradually unlock higher clearance levels as you progress through the story.
[EA Motive's Dead Space remake] improves upon the original with some smart new additions to almost every aspect of its design.
This system feels like it was added in service of the inclusion of bespoke side quests, which task you with backtracking to previously explored areas of the ship. Having a reason to go back makes revisiting what were once locked doors feel organic--and the now-seamless travel between each part of the ship makes it feel like a genuine place--but the side quests themselves aren't particularly interesting from a gameplay perspective. Enemies occasionally crop up to provide an obstacle along familiar routes, but you can often backtrack in relative safety, and these quests essentially boil down to picking up an item or activating a previously recorded message. Attaining more background information on what happened aboard the Ishimura before everything went to hell is a narrative treat at least, particularly if you're invested in the series' lore, but it's a shame these side quests aren't more involved.
Unlike the aforementioned upgrades, the primary fire modes for each weapon have largely remained the same as in the original game. However, a few of Isaac's repurposed firearms have entirely new secondary functions. The Pulse Rifle's alternate fire was formerly only really useful when completely surrounded by enemies, letting you hunker down to envelop yourself in a hail of bullets. This took a hefty toll on your ammunition and there were very few opportunities to use it without feeling like a waste. For the remake, Isaac's Pulse Rifle now comes equipped with a dual-purpose proximity mine that functions as either a trap or a makeshift grenade launcher. I found myself using this and the secondary fire modes on other weapons more often than I ever did in the original Dead Space, largely because they introduce an additional layer of strategy to each encounter with the ship's infestation of Necromorphs. The Flamethrower's new secondary fire mode is another good example, providing you with the option to shoot a wall of flame that can separate enemies by cordoning them off from one another with a fiery blaze.
Out of all the revised weapons, however, it's the Force Gun that stands out amongst the crowd. Previously, this mid-game weapon was little more than a tool for pushing enemies away. Now, it's been redesigned to unleash a thunderous blast of energy that rips skin and muscle clean off the bone. It's a delightfully gruesome weapon that makes exquisite use of the remake's new peeling system, which looks just as gross as it sounds.
The remake's overhauled visuals are phenomenal across the board, bringing the Ishimura's suffocatingly grim bowels to life with a disgusting sheen. It's an iconic location for a reason, and the visual upgrade and sheer attention to detail contribute to it feeling more lived in than ever. That’s true whether it's the abandoned suitcases strewn across the arrival lounge, the cramped crew quarters and the glimpse they offer into the dreary existence of those working aboard the ship, or the posters for a product described as a "carbonated hard bar" providing the only semblance of color amongst its metal-carved hallways. The peeling system is one facet of the remake's improved graphical fidelity, and it has a delightful impact on each combat encounter. It ensures that skin, fat, and muscle layers are ripped off enemies with each successive wound, making the exposed bones vulnerable to snapping in half from a well-placed round or two. The green light running up the spine of Isaac's suit is a visual indicator of his health, and this makes the Necromorph's own bodies a reminder of theirs.
Dead Space's combat still feels somewhat fresh because of the way it foregoes genre conventions where the headshot is king. Necromorphs can only be killed by slicing off their limbs, and it remains incredibly satisfying using weapons like the Plasma Cutter to lop them off at the legs before blasting away at their elongated arms as they desperately crawl toward you. The peeling system only enhances the experience, especially when using the Force Gun's secondary fire. This shoots out a gravity well that pulls enemies towards it, ripping their corpuscles off in the process. Like many of the weapon's secondary fire modes, this is rife for experimentation. You might set off a trap, using the gravity well to pull a bunch of enemies into one clump before burning them all with the flamethrower or using the Plasma Cutter to break through their now bare bones. For as great as the original Dead Space was, repetition did settle in during its final couple of hours, but the remake's added strategy and the variety of tools you're able to play around with prevent this from happening again.
It's impossible to expect the Dead Space remake to be as transformative as something like the Resident Evil 2 remake was. The generational leap isn't as grand and so much about it feels inherently familiar to the 2008 original, such is the way EA Motive has weaved its changes into the Dead Space mold. The new side quests might leave a lot to be desired, but every other addition contributes to a remake that stays true to its progenitor while also improving upon it in a number of ways. Newcomers and hardcore Dead Space fans will get the most out of the experience, but this is now the quintessential way to play one of the survival horror genre's best.
Some games demand a specific kind of real-life setting to really be absorbed. Horror games beg for the lights off and headphones on, while co-op games are often more enjoyable when played together on a couch rather than online. Season: A letter to the future requires its own special circumstances--a calm, peaceful environment--and if you can provide that, you'll find in it a special stillness, a pensive story, and a memoir from a fantasy land worth experiencing.
Sometimes the language of open-world games is obvious, especially if you've played a few of them. Excitingly, Season doesn't feel like such a game, as its approach to gameplay and story are fresh and largely disinterested in giving you boxes to check. You play as Estelle, a young woman who sets off to observe and record a part of her world on the precipice of a new season. In this unnamed world, which is like ours but also definitely is not ours, a new season doesn't mean just a change in temperature; it means a total rebirth of the state of things. The game is deliberately unclear regarding exactly why, when, or how seasons emerge, and it seems at least sometimes they are influenced by people rather than natural things that happen to those people. Seasons seem to be more defined by the particular circumstances of a society--the breakout of war or widespread sleep, for example--more than they are snow days or fallen foliage.
For Estelle, it's important to document the outgoing season as all will be lost when the new season begins, even as no one seems sure what that season will usher in itself. For the people of Tieng Valley, a lush farming village that's largely been evacuated due to an imminent dam collapse, the beginning of the season may even be a matter of life and death. Equipped with a camera, audio recorder, scrapbook, and bicycle, Estelle treks into the valley to interview the last remaining locals, capture the state of the vista in its final days, and reflect on things like memory, community, and grief. These, and other themes, are delivered through thoughtful monologues and conversations that allow for players to insert themselves in the story.
Biking through the wide-open valley after a linear introduction, you can stop anywhere and take pictures of anything. You'll find the world casually split into sections: a cemetery, a temple, a path to a farm house, and so on. In your scrapbook, each named location gets its own dedicated pages as you discover them, and what you put on those pages is up to you. You can capture photos of cows grazing after their human companions have moved out, focus on the juxtaposition of industry and nature on the eve of the dam collapse, or create a portrait of a grieving widow as she packs up her late husband's best suit. It's all equally valid and other than a few puzzle-like sections where you'll need to find specific items, there are no wrong answers.
Simple camera tools like zoom, focus, and color filters allow you to frame and present a moment just as you intend, and, if you like it enough, you can include it in your scrapbook. The same is true of capturing audio--you just point and shoot--and these audio clips become mementos you can include in your travel log. Capturing some images and audio brings out Estelle's inner thoughts, which often become writings you can jot down, too. Capture enough of these "keepsakes" of any location, and you'll unlock additional drawings, stamps, and other musings that can be reshaped and resized to further decorate your scrapbook. The idea is that, by the end of Estelle's journey, the scrapbook will serve as a detailed moment frozen in time, left to pass onto future generations so they can understand their own would-be ambiguous history.
Her entire journey will take anywhere from 6-12 hours, with that variance largely owing to how much you let yourself soak in the various scenes. Season is tranquil at all times, and given Estelle's often wiser-than-her-years thoughts on her experience, the delicate but impactful music, and incredible pastel comic book visual style, it's a game that is best enjoyed by players who would rather sit and reflect on what they've seen, heard, or touched rather than those who might play it like a game to beat. It does have a definitive ending, and Estelle's journey matters most once you see it and understand it all, allowing the game's various themes to come to shore not like a monsoon, but like a delicate wave reaching up the beach. Season more often reminded me of a book of poetry than a video game.
Thus, though Season is fun to play, sometimes I found my gamer brain clashing with Season's intentions. Implicitly, the game welcomes you to skip plenty of sights or landmarks. You need not fill out the scrapbook very much at all if you only care to "finish" the game, so it's left up to you to decide when you've seen enough. Once you've met the remaining denizens of Tieng Valley, the story's poignant conclusion becomes available. So how much else you see in between is really freeform and made available without judgment.
Naturally, those who are enjoying the game would likely get more out of it the more they see, but sometimes I had to stop myself from obsessing over finding every monologue prompt hidden in a forest or every photo op along a path. The game so often feels like a mindfulness meditation that I felt like a failure when I couldn't focus the right way, even though I seemed to be the only one making such judgments--the game never stresses completion percentage or anything of the sort.
As an avid bicyclist, I was really impressed by the game's use of this mechanic. Pedaling uphill uses the DualSense controller's adaptive triggers to mimic the strain one might feel in real life, and on the other side, soaring downhill was authentically refreshing, with the music and ambient noise combining to give me the same feeling of contentment and present-mindedness I feel whenever I take my own real-life bike down the slopes of Portland. Only toward the very end did I have technical issues with the bike, as it got stuck on some geometry a few times when I was navigating a more narrow space. Otherwise, it's very well executed in-game and authentically liberating. A bike does not leave much of a mark on the world, so it fits right in with Estelle's mission, as she's there to observe the fateful valley, not trample on it. Seldom has it ever been the case that biking in a game isn't meant for stunt jumps or trick multipliers, so pedaling around Tieng Valley feels enchanting.
Taking pictures, recording sound, and building a scrapbook becomes not just the physical travel guide to a place soon to be underwater. It also acts like an insightful mirror, reflecting back onto the player not just what they experienced, but how they interpreted it. The in-universe pressure of capturing the world "as it was" comes with the unspoken understanding that it's subjective. How I view this place and its people is likely to be different than how you'd see them, and the game's directive is not to suggest who got it right, but just to ask us to reflect on things people have said or environments we've found ourselves in.
Once, a character asks Estelle to close her eyes for a moment as the forest sways gracefully and she sings a song. I either could or could not choose to oblige, and either seems beautiful in different ways. Season has a lot to say about a number of things, and though authorial intent is there to be unraveled, Scavenger Studio seems to expect players to find their own voices along the way, both literally through dialogue options as well as figuratively through their scrapbook's final composition.
There's a flashback early in the game where Estelle, already on the road in realtime, is speaking to someone from her village before she left. This character likens her mind to a library. "When I die, this library will burn down. But which book should we check out first?" she asks, inviting Estelle to interview her and learn who she is and was before the season changes and likely alters who she will become. Among countless contenders, this line has stuck with me in the days since I finished the game. Season is largely about memories: those we leave behind, those we hold dear, even those we struggle to forget. Memories make us eternal, and the game's way of record-keeping tells a narrative that each player ultimately writes for themselves.
As Estelle pieces together her scrapbook made by my hand, I often found myself asking why I took a particular image, what I liked about a specific sound. What memories or feelings was I conjuring, even subconsciously, that led me to present Estelle's world in the ways I did, and what did that say about how I see my own world? Season asks a lot of introspective questions, provides few definitive answers, and hopes players are willing to breathe it in, consider it carefully, then exhale slowly as they reflect on both the game and themselves. It's unconventional even in a sea of indies that are constantly trying new weird things, but it works.
In Forspoken, protagonist Frey finds herself trapped in the magic-filled world of Athia after stumbling through a portal. There, she bonds with a sentient brace she nicknames Cuff and then encounters a group of survivors living in the last city that's free from the effects of a dangerous miasma. This blight, which Frey calls the Break, covers the land and transforms living creatures into mutated monsters. Frey is the only exception, making her an ideal candidate for exploring the Break, finding its source, and destroying it. The whole situation is an intriguing narrative setup but boring or unlikable characters let it down. It's difficult to like the standoffish and stubborn Frey, the incessantly sarcastic Cuff (who regularly quips in Frey's ear like a discount JARVIS), or any of the survivors who are all too eager to completely rely on Frey's protection from the Break while also asking her to complete boring optional tasks like going on a tour of a lifeless hub or petting a bunch of sheep.
Forspoken's story is one about belonging--finding a place you want to stay and a people you wish to protect. Like any isekai protagonist worth their salt, Frey is initially resistant to her new surroundings before discovering that she's actually ideally suited to the world she's found herself trapped in. However, it's not a world that the game is able to adequately convince the player of wanting to stay in and protect. The emotional connection Forspoken tries to establish to incentivize the player to take action--to help the people that need Frey's help--is deeply uninteresting and oftentimes head-scratching and odd. The characters don't take the threat of Athia's imminent destruction very seriously and any tension that comes from their perilous existence is repeatedly undermined by meaningless busywork they want you to do. The characters themselves are also incredibly plain with two-dimensional personalities. They have no real convictions or anything interesting to say.
The facial expressions of the people in Athia are stilted and uncomfortable, which already creates a bit of a disconnect with the emotional core of Forspoken's story. But the issue is exacerbated by how these people are characterized and used to inspire Frey. We see Frey contemplate murderous vengeance over the death of a survivor she'd only just met, and feel guilty over belittling someone she has the slimmest of connections to. These people aren't fleshed out in Forspoken's story, and so the way they emotionally manipulate Frey isn’t all that believable or fulfilling to watch. My playthrough was filled with me constantly asking, "Yes, but why should Frey care?" and Forspoken never delivered a satisfying answer to the question.
With not much keeping you within the last bastion of human life in Athia, you're encouraged to go out and explore the wider world, sprinting over fields with Frey's parkour abilities and blasting enemies away with explosive magic. Frey zips through the environment with stylish flips and jumps, moving so quickly that she skids to a halt. This does create an enjoyable fluidity to movement and it's exhilarating to feel the world speed past you. Still, the lack of precision makes platforming or levels within enclosed spaces frustratingly difficult. More than a few times, I found myself accidentally jetting past an item I wanted to pick up, or unintentionally racing up the wall of a building. Technically, you can instantly shut off Frey's magical parkour by pressing the button that puts her into a normal sprint--apparently, the two actions cancel each other out because using them both at once causes Frey to come to an abrupt halt. It's an awkward workaround to the problem, however, and not one easy to pull off in the midst of a fight.
Whereas Forspoken's movement mechanics encourage a wilder, freeform style of engaging with the world, combat pushes you toward precision. There's a precise timing needed to pull off dodges and parries, and several of Frey's magic spells lend themselves to careful placement and strategic use--that's difficult to do when racing around the environment. As a result, Forspoken feels disjointed as the moments of exploration and navigation come into conflict with combat. Instead of complementing each other, these two parts of the game are actively fighting one another. They never come together into a cohesive whole.
Frey can let loose a wide variety of bombastic spells and magical abilities, all of which are visually impressive displays. She can crush enemies with massive boulders, engulf whole groups in a molten eruption, or fry everything around her with brilliant green lightning. It all looks very cool, but there's not much in the way of strategy to it. Cuff can inform Frey what flavor of her magic is most effective against a particular enemy, and then all you have to do is switch to that element and keep tossing out attacks. Early into the game, you encounter enemy types that encourage you to think a bit beyond that--enemies who can block magic from the front or foes who can't be damaged until you destroy their wings, for example--but they only really appear in the first quarter of the story. After that, most enemies are bullet sponges designed to create challenge in how much of a magical beating they can take. It's not hard to switch magic types to mindlessly exploit weaknesses and so combat--though visually impressive--quickly loses all sense of enjoyment.
Forspoken's movement is far more fun, especially in the latter half of the game when you start unlocking and chaining new mechanics that increase the variety of ways that Frey can journey across Athia, like slingshotting herself through the air with a flaming whip or manipulating gravity to skate across the water. Even if there's nowhere interesting to go in Forspoken--its open world is dotted with an assortment of run-of-the-mill side quests like time-limited parkour challenges and photo ops--there's fun to be had in the act of simply getting to your next main story mission. The quiet hum of Forspoken's excellent soundtrack worms its way into your ears while you're racing through the empty, yet beautiful, landscapes. I'm absentmindedly humming its main theme even now.
Exposition regularly cuts into the experience, however. Frey and Cuff quip a lot, and though Cuff does have a few humorous one-liners and insightful commentary on the world of Athia over the course of the story, Frey...does not. Frey is one of the weakest parts of Forspoken. Her characterization resembles the narrative arc of '90s and early 2000s isekai light novels, manga, and anime, which largely focused on female protagonists becoming trapped in another world. There, they'd discover their innate talents translated into power, which they'd wield in a quest that awarded them personal agency and self-confidence. But Frey deviates from these isekai protagonists. She's inherently unlikable for most of Forspoken's story, with the game forcing her through her transformation from selfish sorcerer to defiant hero over the course of a single chapter of lengthy exposition. I didn't buy into her heroic shift in the final moments of the game--it felt like the storyline was going through the motions without taking the necessary steps to ensure Frey's emotional and mental development made sense.
As a character, Frey feels flat. Our introduction to her is seeing her on the wrong side of a criminal court case, and that she views the world around her with jaded exasperation--she pushes people away because she's an abandoned orphan and believes no one wants her. Frey carries that disposition throughout most of the game and it's the primary means by which she views every aspect of Athia, and thus we the player are able to see it. Forspoken doesn't do anything to celebrate Frey as someone who is Black or a woman or anything else about her. The game posits that the only perspective worth noting from Frey is that of an orphan and that restriction not only stunts the character growth she can achieve, it also just gets stale after a few hours.
Forspoken is a tricky game to recommend. The lore of its world is interesting but delivered in a stilted expository manner, and the freeing sensation of taking off across the landscape in a magically-propelled sprint is sullied by the knowledge that there's nowhere to go or anything fun to do. Combat is visually impressive but not all that engaging, and the excellent sound design and the catchy musical score are regularly undermined by unfunny quips from an unlikable protagonist. I enjoyed parts of it, but too often my fun was dragged to an unrewarding halt.
For decades, the adventures of Monkey D. Luffy and the Straw Hat Pirates have thrilled and enchanted readers and viewers across the globe. Turning such a beloved and long-running action-adventure series into game form has proven to be quite a challenge, with many developers stepping up over the years to try and gamify the magic that's made the One Piece anime and manga such a success, often to mixed results. One Piece Odyssey is the latest such attempt, and it takes the approach of transforming One Piece's dramatic battles into a turn-based RPG. While it does a solid job of getting the look and mood of the series down, One Piece Odyssey unfortunately offers little more than a very basic RPG adventure.
The game opens with the Straw Hat gang stranded on the mysterious island of Waford. Their ship, Thousand Sunny, lies in a wreck nearby and with no obvious way to repair it, the gang sets out exploring this wild new world. A strange young girl named Lim emerges and, fearful of the pirates, she removes all of the crew's strength and special powers. With the help of Adio, a rather suspicious adventurer who calls the island his home, the Straw Hats set out to recover their powers, learn the secrets of Waford Island, and escape to journey another day. Along the way, they'll also be able to relive the great adventures of the past.

The story shifts its focus from getting off of Waford Island to getting everyone's full power back with the aid of island residents Lim and Adio fairly quickly, and that remains the crux of the story for quite some time. Recovering powers means finding special cubes scattered across the island and held by the mighty Colossi. Fully restoring the powers contained in the cubes is a rather involved process: Lim must send the crew to a dreamworld called Memoria, where they relive some of the most important events of their lives--in other words, they venture into re-creations of past story arcs from the One Piece anime and manga, though events within them unfold differently. (The justification is that "memories are unreliable.") Only by fully reliving these events in Memoria--and in some cases, venturing even further into strange sub-worlds--can the crew restore what they've lost.
One Piece Odyssey's narrative is, sadly, rather disappointing. Over its lifespan, One Piece has given fans many wonderful, memorable stories and created a fascinating world filled with lore and intrigue. The idea of playing through an original story packed with action and adventure set in the One Piece world as an RPG is a very exciting one, but Odyssey mostly eschews that potential in favor of revisiting past story arcs in Memoria so the Straw Hats can recover their powers. These journeys into the past comprise the bulk of the game's 30-40 hour playtime. While there are some thoughtfully portrayed interactions from the present-day crew as they revisit places and people from the past, setting the game in dream-universe stories that have already resolved, even if they play out differently, robs them of their drama and impact--the conclusions are already known, the stakes don't feel compelling, and the characters are simply doing what's needed to reach the inevitable finale we've seen before. It doesn't help that there's a lot of fetch-quest and NPC-hunting style padding present, either.
From the outset, One Piece Odyssey does a fantastic job of capturing the look and feel of the manga. The character models look vibrant, and their animations and expressions nail the goofy slapstick kineticism that defines One Piece's style of action and character art. Combat animations are particularly well done, with Luffy's rubber-limbed smackdowns, Usopp's comical sniper techniques, and Robin's strangely sensuous multi-limbed combat submission strikes look dynamic in a way that feels authentic to the source material. The interactions between the characters are also in line with what fans of the series have come to expect. The Straw Hats banter and bicker with each other as you explore the various environments, adding a good dose of charm to the proceedings and letting the personalities that many have come to love truly shine through. The audio dialogue is limited to Japanese only, and there is no option for an English localization, which is something to keep in mind if you're a dub fan.
While exploring, characters can swap in and use their unique abilities (provided they've recovered them) to get through obstacles, sling across gaps, and find hidden items like cooking ingredients. Each character has one or more unique field abilities: Luffy can stretch and grapple, Zoro can cut through certain barriers, Usopp can shoot at specific targets, and Chopper is small enough to go through small tunnels, and so on. While this adds some enjoyable variety and discovery to field navigation, the frequent need to interrupt exploration to go into a sub-menu and choose a new leader to use their skills is a bit of an annoyance. Still, the solid visual presentation and the constant crew chatter combined with all the exploration abilities make field travel enjoyable enough to offset the inconvenience of swapping.
When it comes to combat, however, things start to slip. Battles are presented in a traditional turn-based format, though unlike many turn-based games, characters can act in any order and be freely swapped in/out without penalty during your phase, giving you a very strong combat advantage off the bat. When you're choosing which foes to target, there's a Fire Emblem-style rock-paper-scissors system in play where characters are affiliated with one of three combat types that grants damage advantages and disadvantages over other types: power beats speed, speed beats technique, technique beats power. There's also an added twist where, upon battle commencement, characters are randomly assigned to different "areas," restricting which enemies they can attack: You can't target enemies outside of your area with normal attacks (unless all foes in your area are KO'd), but depending on character and abilities you may be able to affect enemies in another area with a special technique. This sounds like a neat twist on paper, but in practice the targetting restrictions simply prove irritating, necessitating you either spend TP to attack enemies out of your area or shuffle everyone around. The presentation of the battles also makes it difficult to tell at a glance how many enemies there are and which zone they're in, leading to targeting mistakes and resulting annoyances.
It's not a terrible combat engine, but it's easily exploitable to the point that it becomes unengaging, and, at worst, an annoying interruption. The freedom to take turns in any order and swap in characters on a whim makes it a cinch to stack your combat party full of characters with advantages over the opponent, placing crew exactly where they're needed to mow enemies down and heal allies quickly. You can also set up powerful Bond Arts that require specific team members to be on-field without much hassle, further trivializing many combat scenarios. Some side-quests, such as the Memory Link quests that unlock Bond Arts, restrict the crew members you can use, which makes things much more interesting--but these quests are woefully short.
Also, One Piece Odyssey hands out copious amounts of EXP for completing very simple random challenges like "beat this enemy in one turn," so you level up quickly if you're engaging in combat with even a moderate degree of frequency. Leveling up grants stat boosts only, as you only acquire combat techniques after reaching set points in the story--but those quickly-accumulating stats can make a huge difference, even if the overall character growth is rather limited Eventually, it can get to the point where even the character-type system becomes mostly irrelevant: In my playthrough, loading up Zoro with a bunch of attack boost accessories and letting him loose in auto-battle was often enough to decimate most enemies. Even some "difficult" encounters weren't really challenging in a tactical sense: the enemies either had better evasion, an extremely strong attack I couldn't anticipate, and/or were HP sponges that took way too long to kill.
Fundamentally, One Piece Odyssey isn't a bad RPG, just a very generic one that strives to do little more than tick off all the checkboxes of what players expect from the genre: side quests, crafting, cooking, fan-service, and so on. Attaching the One Piece license to it results in expectations that are only partially met: While the Straw Hats are as delightful as ever to be around, the story they've found themselves stuck in is not. Ultimately, the greatest sin of One Piece Odyssey is wasted potential, something it shares with many of the other video game adaptations of the franchise.
Fire Emblem: Three Houses was a smash hit for Nintendo both critically and commercially. While it didn't dramatically shake up the combat, its ambitious multi-campaign structure swung for the fences. It only seemed natural that Nintendo and developer Intelligent Systems would build off Three Houses' success. While Fire Emblem Engage certainly builds on the deep and rewarding tactical combat, the predictable story and repetitive side activities feel like a step backward for the long-running series.
Fire Emblem Engage follows a more traditional structure than Three Houses’ calendar-based progression. Your time is split between the tactical turn-based combat the series is known for and a hub-like area where you can interact with other characters and outfit your units with weapons and equipment. While there are multiple missions available to you at any given time, the story sticks to a linear structure as you plot a course around the map. There are no major story decisions, and apart from a couple characters found in optional paralogue chapters, everyone will recruit the same characters at the same time.
This traditional structure isn't inherently a bad thing. Some of the best games in the series follow this narrative style, and Engage's presentation and narrative are more polished thanks to its focused design. But this approach also puts the story in a brighter spotlight and, unfortunately, the extra polish doesn't hide the predictable and meandering plot, which overall falls flat.
You play as Alear, son or daughter of the Divine Dragon, and it's your destiny to save the world from the Fell Dragon. The premise is standard JRPG fare, and although there are some twists and turns along the way, these rarely feel like meaningful developments. You and your crew are the good guys, while the evil purple dragon and its followers are the bad guys. While not perfect, Three Houses' approach of pitting different houses against each other and forcing you to make some huge decisions along the way was both ambitious and encouraged personal investment. Engage's story, on the other hand, feels safe and formulaic, so it can be easy to become detached from it.
As you travel the world, you'll meet an eclectic cast of characters and visit some vibrant locales that serve as battlefields. The stakes are high at the outset, and the plot rarely gives you time to learn about or appreciate its large cast of characters outside of a few key figures who are critical to the story. Characters early on are introduced in rapid succession, and after a few battles I had forgotten about some of them entirely. Most of the characterization happens in optional support cutscenes, but given how bloated the roster is at the beginning, some characters naturally fell to the wayside and, as a result, were too underleveled to properly utilize.
The mechanical impact of the skewed social elements at play is that, in the early hours, the larger number of bodies may offset some losses you might incur on Classic mode, which is Fire Emblem's permadeath mode. However, Engage is pretty forgiving on the Normal and Hard difficulties, so in reality you probably won't lose any units on Classic mode either. And, regardless of which difficulty you choose, there is a mechanic that allows you to rewind time to correct any of your mistakes. Normal difficulty gives you an unlimited number of rewinds, while the Hard and Maddening difficulties limit it to 10.
Despite Fire Emblem Engage's forgiving nature, it is a well-balanced experience regardless of the difficulty and mode you choose. Normal offers a reasonable challenge for players who may not want to utilize every system the game offers, while Hard delivers a tough experience that requires tactical forethought and some preparation outside of battle, and Maddening demands strategic prowess and full investment in all of Fire Emblem Engage's various systems. I'm currently a quarter of the way through a Maddening playthrough and it is harrowing. The odds seem insurmountable at first, but the right planning will eventually lead you to victory.
The combat itself is tighter than ever. The tactical tile-based skirmishes return, as well as the original rock-paper-scissors-style weapon triangle: swords beat axes, axes beat spears, and spears beat swords. Apart from Fire Emblem: Three Houses, the weapon triangle has been a mainline series mainstay since 1996's Fire Emblem: Genealogy of the Holy War, and Engage brings some tweaks to the system. Weapon advantages not only deal extra damage, but cause a break effect, which is a mechanic new to Engage. When an offensive unit inflicts a break onto a defending unit, that unit drops their weapon and is incapable of counterattacking for the remainder of the skirmish and one additional skirmish during the same turn.
The break mechanic adds more risk and reward to the weapon triangle by giving weapon types specific purposes and use-cases, making a well-balanced team crucial. With the proper coordination, you can effectively undercut your opponent's entire counterattack effort, leaving your units unscathed until the enemy's turn. Naturally, your opponents can also take advantage of the weapon triangle and break your units if you aren't careful. While it can briefly put you on the backfoot on the Normal difficulty, it can be a matter of life and death on Hard or Maddening. Taking full advantage of the weapon triangle requires clever positioning, a balanced team, and well-equipped units that can cover up potential weaknesses on the fly.
Fire Emblem Engage's highlighted mechanic is the Engage feature. Throughout Engage's story, you will come across Emblem Rings that house the spirits of past Fire Emblem heroes. Along with stat buffs, units equipped with an Emblem Ring can merge with the Fire Emblem hero contained within it to utilize unique skills and weapons for three turns. For example, a unit paired with Sigurd, the blue-haired protagonist from Genealogy of the Holy War, can use a skill called Override, which can attack multiple units in a single-file line. Additionally, Sigurd's ring allows the user to move a few extra spaces after attacking, allowing you to leave room for another unit to follow up. Lucina, on the other hand, has a flashy skill called All For One, which allows all friendly units within two spaces to partake in a powerful chain attack. With proper coordination, All For One can deliver a deadly blow to some of the game's tougher enemies. There are 12 rings in all, and each one represents a different mainline Fire Emblem game.
Most of Fire Emblem Engage's depth is built around these Emblem Rings. Any unit can utilize an Emblem Ring, and as a unit battles alongside an Emblem, the bond between that unit and the Emblem Ring increases. As a character improves their bond with an Emblem, they can inherit new skills and permanent stat buffs, which can be purchased with skill points. While certain Emblem abilities and skills complement specific classes, there is nothing stopping you from giving an Emblem Ring to any one of your units. The combinations are endless, and it can be satisfying to find both the perfect duo and an unconventional pairing.
It is imperative to carefully consider which unit should get which Emblem Ring, though, not only for the tactical advantage, but because maxing out a bond between an Emblem and unit can be a time sink. It could take a dozen battles to max out an Emblem's bond with a specific character, and if you've given that Emblem Ring to a character who can't fully utilize its inherited skills, you could be wasting your time. There are ways to speed up the bonding process, but they require Bond Fragments, which can also be used to forge and meld stat-buffing Bond Rings. The Central Pedestal, the place where you can manage all your rings, will tell you if a specific inherited skill overlaps with another. However, it does not tell you who and which classes would benefit most from a specific Emblem Ring. There are even some cases where the story will introduce a new unit pre-equipped with an Emblem Ring that isn't all that beneficial for them to wield, so it's up to you to recognize that and find a unit who might get more out of that Emblem Ring.
Managing Emblem Rings can be overwhelming, especially for newcomers who may not fully understand all of Fire Emblem’s stats, but once you've put together a balanced crew that fully utilizes all 12 Emblem Rings, the combat sings. The unique abilities--especially when paired with the right unit--give you an edge that begins to build momentum as you tear through the enemy's numbers. And knowing that you have a well-balanced team with specific Emblem Rings not only informs your strategy from the outset, but also allows you to adjust in the heat of battle should you encounter a tough situation. And this happens without any one Emblem feeling overpowered. The end result is that the combat remains fresh throughout the game's lengthy runtime.
While the Emblems bring a lot of nuance and experimentation to the combat, they are all one-dimensional characters off the battlefield. Apart from Marth, the Emblems don't add anything substantial to the overall narrative. Occasionally, they'll pop in for a cutscene to deliver a line or two when you first meet, but after that they are relegated to truncated, soulless bond conversations and paralogues that act as straightforward loyalty missions.
There's a paralogue for each of the Emblem Rings, and the setup for all of them is nearly identical. You show up to a place that looks familiar to the Emblem's home world, the Emblem asks you to prove yourself in combat, and then you fight. While some of the battles themselves are interesting, the setups for these paralogues never are. These missions could have been the perfect opportunity to revisit and expand on fan-favorite characters like Lucina and Lyn, or give more personality to the player characters from past games like Corrin and Byleth. At the very least, I was hoping Engage might be a good introduction to characters that never made it to the West, like Sigurd and Leif, but that wasn't the case.
Fire Emblem Engage feels like an attempt to leverage the series' rich history and huge cast of beloved characters, but outside of some clever combat quirks that reference the older games, the Emblem characters are paper-thin. A handful of them also serve as a sobering reminder that a portion of Fire Emblem's history is still inaccessible in the West.
Fortunately, the cast outside of the Emblem Rings is solid. Like previous games, most of the characterization is done through short vignettes called support conversations. They can be funny, quirky, and occasionally deep when they explore a character's internal or external conflicts. They're not all good, and some follow common JRPG tropes a little too closely, but in most cases it's a joy to watch these characters interact with each other.
One highlight for me is Prince Alcryst, who has been living in his brother's shadow since he was a kid. Most of Alcryst's support conversations revolve around him getting over his inferiority complex in unusual ways. In one scene, a party-obsessed companion invites him to a get-together where Alcryst is able to cut loose and discover a side of himself he didn't know existed.
In Alcryst's case, it was fun to watch him build up his confidence as I was developing him into a cold-blooded archer on the battlefield. By the end, it felt like Alcryst's character outside of combat mirrored the character I had molded him into on the battlefield. Not every character has an arc like Alcryst’s, but each of them has a distinct, often peculiar personality that keeps support conversations fresh and lighthearted. Some of these scenes can be a bit awkward, but they usually give you just enough backstory to make you care about them in battle.
Most of these conversations take place at the Somniel, your base above the clouds. Here you can chat with your companions, exercise for some temporary stat buffs, share a meal with some friends, fish, take care of livestock, purchase and upgrade new weapons, feed the Somniel's spirit animal Sommie, donate to one of the different kingdoms, battle friendly units in the arena, and, of course, manage your Emblem Rings. Most of these activities reset after each battle, so you're encouraged to return to the Somniel often to make the most of your time. Unfortunately, it doesn't take long before these activities start to feel like busy work.
While the support conversations are generally great and tweaking your units’ loadouts can be satisfying, running around the Somniel to pick up resources and partaking in these activities is not. The worst of the bunch is a minigame that has you polish Emblem Rings as the Emblem hero either awkwardly praises or chastises your work. Of course, you can skip all these activities and focus solely on the battles, but that could put you at a significant disadvantage, especially on harder difficulties. In order to keep your companions in tip-top shape and bring in a steady flow of resources, you'll need to return to the Somniel after each battle, whether you like it or not.
The most substantial side activity in the Somniel is the Tower of Trials. Here you can connect with other players for asynchronous co-op and player-vs-player game modes. Relay Trials pits you against an AI-controlled team and has you trade off with other players every few turns. Once the trial is complete, everyone involved will receive some rewards. It’s a neat idea that lets you try out character builds created by other players, but it's not as compelling as a standard battle. Since you could be joining mid-fight with an unfamiliar team, a lot of the tactical decision-making is out of your control. Losing an ally or an entire battle due to another player’s poor decision-making feels antithetical to Fire Emblem’s core design.
The asynchronous PvP mode, Outrealm Trials, lets you or an opponent create a map and scenario that other players can take on. The designer can place obstacles, mounted weapons, and select their units to populate the battlefield. Once the level is complete, it can be shared with friends and strangers. Once again, it’s a neat idea, but there doesn’t seem to be any proper balancing or level scaling in these trials. I joined a random match and the opponent’s units were underleveled to the point where I was able to one-hit all of them. I can see the appeal of sharing trials with friends who are evenly matched, but hopping in random games seems unfair, without better skill-based or balance considerations being made. It is worth noting that I tested Outrealm Trials during a pre-release phase, and a more balanced matchmaking system could be in place once the game is available to a wider audience.
Fire Emblem Engage's biggest surprise is its presentation. Engage is a noticeable upgrade when compared to Three Houses. Character models look much sharper with thick and defined edges, the pre-rendered cutscenes are gorgeous, and the battlefields are more detailed.
Not only does the game look better on a technical level, the art direction in Engage feels much stronger this time around. Characters are lavishly rendered with colorful outfits and accessories that perfectly capture their personality. Jean, the young medic, brandishes a backpack equipped with vials and a medicinal flask, while Diamont, the royal prince of Brodia, is adorned with a crown and heavy armor with red accents to match his country's colors. Even though Engage does frontload the experience with too many characters, they all feel visually unique.
The flashy battle animations go along nicely with the colorful cast of characters as well. While you're likely to skip the standard battle animations in the back half of the game, I still found myself sitting through all of the extravagant Emblem attacks. Watching an enemy's health bar plummet after unleashing an explosive multi-hit attack is gratifying.
What really hammers home the stellar presentation, though, is the incredible score. The sweeping orchestral compositions elevate tense combat scenarios, and salvage some of the dullest beats in the story. Thankfully, you can replay any track from your bedroom in the Somniel, including a handful of tracks from previous entries.
While Fire Emblem's combat mechanics have never been better, Engage's story and structure lack the ambition of its predecessors. The result is a predictable and straightforward romp that's carried by its fantastic presentation and engaging combat. And although the Emblem Rings add a deep and satisfying wrinkle to the battles, the heroes contained within them are one-dimensional apparitions that leave a lot to be desired. If you’re looking for a deep tactical RPG with some colorful characters, it will certainly scratch that itch. But beyond that, Fire Emblem Engage feels like a safe, straightforward entry in Nintendo’s long-running series.
Sports Story picks up a bit after the events of Golf Story. After proving to be a capable golfer, the unnamed protagonist now finds himself on the cusp of signing a contract and going pro. After going through the motions of checking into your hotel, finding new golf clubs, and acquiring a license, you head off to the countryside for a little practice. Upon reaching your destination, you find the area under the abusive thumb of the bat-wielding Iron Dragons and decide to take on the role of a detective to figure out what's going on and stop this gang from ruining people's lives.
The story abruptly shifts around this early point. No longer are you an aspiring golfer doing his best to solve other people's problems through your golfing skills; instead, you start hopping from one location to the next as a freelance investigator, aiding people in the struggles they're facing and collecting clues related to the ongoing threat of the Iron Dragons. It's not all that compelling a tale to watch unfold, especially with many of the funny and memorable characters from Golf Story either only showing up in a limited capacity or being entirely removed from the plot in favor of focusing on the bland and annoyingly simple-minded protagonist.
Early on, the plot hints that every problem you're encountering is somehow connected to a bigger conspiracy, but even that narrative thread isn't all that interesting, largely because there isn't enough of a reason to care about the protagonist and what might happen to him. The few characters who do make the transition from Golf Story to Sports Story--like Coach and Lara--are written to be either completely useless or aggressively annoying. While they had these traits back in Golf Story, the storyline cleverly subverted these archetypes to both humanize and humorize their roles in the story and transform them into people you wanted to get to know over time. No such transformation happens here, leaving the cast filled with annoying people you don't really want to help.
This narrative shift also feeds into Sports Story's main gameplay loop, which is a series of fetch quests for the incompetent people around you. To progress in the story, you're regularly pressed to find items for someone. Sometimes that's finding a series of fishermen in order to learn how to catch different kinds of fish so that you can prove yourself capable enough to aid someone in need, or finding a bunch of keys to unlock a series of cages and free the birds inside so that they open a gate for you. It's not always immediately clear where you're supposed to go or what you have to do in order to progress, so a great deal of Sports Story is spent running around trying to see who you can interact with and what they want, akin to a point-and-click adventure.
It's all rather dull, though. Sports Story lacks much of the charm and quick-witted jokes of its predecessor, so there's not much in the way of fun to dress up the tedium of accomplishing different flavors of the same task. Sports Story ostensibly adds variety with the addition of more sports beyond golf, but the structure of the overall gameplay loop is quite rigid, so the experience begins to feel rote and boring fairly quickly into its runtime.
At the end of each chapter, you get to play a round of golf and it's here where the game shines. Like its predecessor, Sports Story uses a three-click system for golf, meaning that after you select which club you're using, you click once to line up the shot, a second time to set the shot's power, and a third time to determine how straight you hit the ball. This system is mechanically approachable and simple to pick up, and yet still manages to curate enjoyable complexity and a sense of strategy for the sport by adding in factors like sand traps and wind speed.
On top of this already-winning formula, Sports Story adds an assortment of ball types for you to switch between, creating even more opportunities to pull off complex shots and clutch a victory over your opponent. The skipper ball can be propelled across bodies of water, for example, while the vector ball automatically redirects toward the hole on its first bounce regardless of where or how it lands. These balls are limited--you find them in chests scattered across the map--meaning there's a sense of strategy both in what you use and when you decide to use it. Using them willy-nilly isn't in your best interest, meaning you'll still be taking most shots with the standard golf ball.
The variety of locations is also used to great effect, creating a diverse assortment of golf courses that each present different types of challenges. The mountains and tunnels of Britannia Station are surprisingly windy, for example, forcing you to take the strong winds into account with every shot. Meanwhile, PureStrike Links has numerous slopes and divots, meaning that it's oftentimes tricky to roll the ball along the green with your putter. I like that each location has a theme tied to it, encouraging you to continue to evolve over the course of the game and develop skills beyond hitting the ball as best you can.
When you're not fetching an item for someone or playing golf, Sports Story attempts to break up the tedium of its repetitive structure with a slew of new sports to play and activities to participate in like volleyball, tennis, bike riding, and fishing. None are as enjoyable as golfing, however, and a few--especially volleyball and bike riding--are downright frustrating given how they're activities that are made to reward nimbleness and positioning, and Sports Story's movement mechanics aren't designed for anything more physically strenuous than swinging a golf club at a stationary ball.
You'd think, with the titular shift of Golf Story to Sports Story, that the new sports would play a huge role in the sequel, but they're largely an afterthought to the fetch quests. Within the scope of the main story, you play most of the non-golf sports only once or twice with optional opportunities to play them again, which allows you to earn extra cash to buy new golf clubs as well as experience points that improve aspects of your golf swing. The monetary benefits and experience points you gain playing these activities again aren't necessary though, as you earn plenty of money and experience through the main questlines to keep progressing at a steady pace. Given how broken or frustrating each of the new sports is and how little you engage with them, most of them feel tacked on and unfinished, especially in comparison to playing golf. The one exception is fishing, which plays a substantial role in one of the areas and works as intended. However, fishing is boring and repetitive, as it requires very little skill--all you need to know is which bait a fish likes in order to catch it.
Sports Story also suffers from technical issues, resulting in the game regularly crashing, the protagonist getting stuck in the environment, or the game not allowing you to open the menu and save the game. I've had to restart missions half a dozen times and replay whole sections of the game after a crash caused me to lose nearly a half hour's worth of progress. These issues make the already-annoying cycle of repeated fetch quests all the more frustrating, as it's possible all your effort might be dashed at any given moment. Making sure to constantly manually save alleviates the issue, of course, but it's still annoying that you even have to do that given how often these issues pop up. Several updates since the game's launch have helped reduce the regularity of these problems, but they still persist.
Every so often, a hint of something special glints through in Sports Story's bloated design. A joke or two manages to hit the mark and make me smile, for instance, or a surge of triumph flows through me after a dash of inspiration forms the basis of a strategy that turns a seemingly impossible shot into something possible. But these moments are too rare to adequately alleviate the game's numerous shortcomings, all of which are exasperated by regular technical issues. Golf Story deserved a better sequel than this.
When I booted up High On Life for the first time, I knew what I was getting myself into. I'm familiar with the work of not only Justin Roiland (Rick and Morty, Solar Opposites) but also of his game studio Squanch Games (Trover Saves The Universe, Accounting+), so I had an idea of the sort of comedy that was coming my way. What I did not expect, however, was a 3D shooter with Metroidvania vibes that echo some of the best games of my youth, and more importantly does them justice.
High On Life tells the story of an unnamed protagonist--whom everyone calls "Bounty Hunter," even their own sister--fighting against an alien drug cartel that's invaded Earth. The cartel wishes to round up every human on the planet and sell them as the drug, which other aliens can consume via elaborate machines. Our bounty hunter hero is armed with Gatlians, a race of talking guns, and each Gatlian possesses its own attacks and abilities. The concept is admittedly very weird, but it's a well-told story that kept me guessing until the end.
At this point, it bears acknowledging that this is 100% a Justin Roiland project, complete with all the hallmarks of his comedic philosophy. Rapid-fire monologues, fart jokes, demolition of the fourth wall, ad-libs, dark comedy--it's all intertwined within the game's narrative and presentation. If things like Rick and Morty, Trover Saves The Universe, or Solar Opposites aren't your cup of tea, this won't be either. That said, I have a very high tolerance for this sort of goofiness and I found myself laughing throughout the 10-hour adventure.
I got a kick out of the fact that Squanch Games licensed four full-length schlocky B-movies for players to "enjoy" simply because it could. Every time a voice actor in clear ad-lib mode would laugh in the middle of a diatribe, I would also laugh. The referential humor always got a reaction out of me--particularly mentions of other video games, like the full-throated endorsement of indie darling Donut County by Kenny the pistol.
There's a genuine charm in all of it. Sure, some of the jokes don't land, and the ramblings of the gun in my hand can sometimes go on too long, but it's clear in every attempt that the development team was having fun making High On Life. I never knew what was going to happen as scenes progressed, and that lack of predictability enhances the experience. Honestly, this unruly approach is the only way certain jokes work--which includes, for example, an entire scene that plays out in "Space Applebee's," complete with waiter interruptions as you order food.
However, Squanch Games also knows this brand of humor isn't for everyone, and it provides the option to tone down banter so those turned off by constant chatter can still enjoy the game. I left my settings to "Frequent" banter and didn't think it was too much--in comparison, I didn’t find the banter to be as egregious as what earned Horizon: Forbidden West criticism earlier this year. This could be because the characters weren't speaking out loud about the puzzles in front of me, which made the dialogue feel more natural for the setting.
Once you get past the goofiness and focus on the game itself, High On Life delivers a solid 3D shooter experience that emulates the exploits of Samus Aran. Each of the different biomes I explored were brimming with secrets, from living chests filled with gold to random NPCs offering a quick zinger or brief side quest. As the game progresses, vertical movement is introduced thanks to finding a jetpack, and that opens up exploration even more.
These worlds are large, as well, which the game tries to counter with a waypoint system that allows me to see in which direction my objective lies and how far away it sits. Sometimes this system gets its wires crossed, and reaching one waypoint somehow turns into me returning to the waypoint I just came from, but more often than not, a simple tap of the D-Pad points me in the right direction. The waypoints also became something of a crutch in the later parts of the game, as not using them sometimes led to me traveling to the wrong part of the map and getting lost. It’s not a perfect system, but the waypoints are helpful more often than not.
The Gatlians each stand out from one another, both in their quips and how they’re used in combat. Kenny is the resident pistol, Gus is a shotgun, Knifey is the… uh, knife, and Sweezy acts like the Needler from Halo. The most interesting of the weapons is Creature, which acts as a sort of Pikmin device, launching small creatures at enemies for damage over time. All four are potent in combat, as they possess advantages over certain foes and make it essential to switch through guns during a fight.
Each gun has a second power that aids with traveling and environmental puzzles, which slowly opens more of the world to me as I progress. Kenny shoots blasts of thick slime which will hit designated obstacles and allow you to pass. Sweezy can fire a shot that slows time in the area around where it lands, making her the perfect choice to get past fast-spinning fans that would otherwise cause damage. These special shots can in a fight as well--Kenny’s slime shots will launch opponents in the air for extra hits, for example--which gives me even more options.
Using the Gatlians in battle is a lot of fun, and the enemies I'm facing fit right into the weird and silly aesthetic of the rest of the game. The bad guys are each covered in a sort of yellow goo--the origin of which I will not spoil--and as you deal damage, the goo wears off, exposing their gray bodies underneath. While strange, it serves as an easy visual aid for how much damage you've done to a certain enemy, and it also allows you to create your own weak points. If an enemy is hiding behind cover, but there's a patch of gray skin exposed on its arm, target that spot and the enemy will fall quickly. It's an ingenious idea of showing combat damage on enemies without giving them health bars or something similar.
That said, most of the enemies I encountered are dumb as rocks. I could run up to any one of the normal grunts and either shoot or melee them to death without taking a lot of damage. There were times I’d be overwhelmed and have to retry a battle, but those were more due to my being overzealous rather than enemies outsmarting me.
Boss fights aren’t much better, as the majority of them boil down to simply shooting and dodging. Some of them shake things up a bit, whether they implement the special shot of the Gatlian you’re about to rescue--Krubis fires large discs you can reflect back at him, which it turns out is the power of Gus the shotgun--or give you multiple bosses to fight at once. At their core, however, it’s more of the same combat you get from grunts, just with bigger baddies.
While overall combat is fun, where it becomes tedious is the length of some skirmishes. Each encounter tends to play out in waves, with two or three sets of enemies coming out before the battle is over. Some of them stretch far longer than that, to the point where Kenny the pistol says, "Oh my god, MORE?!" and I'm feeling exactly the same. These fights become a test of patience as much as a test of skill. Boss fights don't have this issue for the most part, but some of them fall into their own issues--one fight in particular still makes me angry just thinking about how difficult it became in its final stage.
It is more than its thematic turbulence that makes The Witcher 3 extraordinary, actually. Excellence abounds at every turn in this open-world role-playing game: excellent exploration, excellent creature design, excellent combat mechanics, excellent character progression. But the moments that linger are those that reveal the deep ache in the world's inhabitants. In one quest, you reunite two lovers, one of which is now a rotting hag, its tongue lasciviously lolling from its mouth. In another, a corpulent spouse-abuser must find a way to love two different lost souls, each of which test the limits of his affection. Don't worry that these vague descriptions spoil important events: they are simple examples of the obstacles every resident faces. On the isles of Skellige and in the city of Novigrad, there is no joy without parallel sorrow. Every triumph demands a sacrifice.
As returning protagonist Geralt of Rivia, you, too, face the anguish of mere existence, sometimes in unexpected, unscripted ways. The central story, which sees you seeking your ward and daughter figure Ciri, as well as contending with the otherworldly force known as the wild hunt, often forces this anguish upon you. But it was my natural exploration of the game's vast expanses that proved most affecting. At one point, I witnessed a woman sentenced to death, doomed to starve after being chained to a rock. It's a chilling sentence, of course, but it was only later, when I accidentally sailed past the tiny island where her corpse still rested, that the horror of her punishment sunk into my heart. The Witcher 3's story did not script this moment; it was merely a passing detail that might have been lost in the waves or overlooked in favor of the harpies circling overhead. Yet there she was, a reminder that my actions--actions that felt righteous and reasonable as I made them--allowed this woman to rot in this faraway place.
The Witcher 2: Assassins of Kings touched on similar repercussions, but The Witcher 3 makes them personal. Political tensions run as hot as they always have in this series, and your decisions still divert the paths of barons and kings in intriguing ways. But where The Witcher 2's focus on plot came at the expense of characterization, the sequel gives the wartime struggle great heft by giving Geralt intimate connections to every major player. The connection between Ciri and Geralt proves to be the story's strongest driving force, but Ciri is not a damsel to be rescued, though it may seem so at first, especially in this particular world. This is a place where women struggle to find respect as political candidates, as armorsmithing masters, and even as proper members of a functioning culture.
Roasting a crowd of witch hunters is not only satisfying on its own terms, but has a sweet justice to it: the first steps you make in the city of Novigrad lead you to a witch-burning in progress.
Women, as it happens, are also this story's strongest force. If you have played a Witcher game before, you know many of them already. The most powerful of them are former members of the Lodge of Sorceresses, few of them outright likable, and each of them defiant in the face of death. In certain circumstances, you take control of Ciri herself, and she wields swords just as capably as a witcher does. (Her phantom dashes also bring a zippiness to her sections that Geralt lacks.) The occasional dose of gratuitous toplessness sometimes proves to be a needle scratch, particularly in a sauna scene that seems to have been constructed specifically to get you up close and personal with a woman's anatomy. In other moments, however, the nudity is a natural element of a scene's sensuality, such as the tutorial scene that features Yennefer and Geralt sharing a relaxed intimacy that surpasses the obvious physical connection.
The Witcher 3 is enormous in scope, though "big" is just a descriptor, a statement of neither good nor bad. It is fortunate, then, that The Witcher 3 does not subscribe to the "make a big world and fill it with copy-paste content" design philosophy. Instead, it finds a nigh-perfect sense of balance between giving you things to do and allowing its spaces to breathe. You follow a path not just because there's a question mark on your map, but also because it must lead somewhere new and interesting. The intrigue builds naturally: Every quest is a story of sadness or triumph waiting to absorb you, asking you to make decisions that change the landscape in various ways. You won't always know what the consequences are; some decisions have noticeable, game-altering repercussions, while others barely draw your gaze. But the consequences are there, and you often notice them, even though the game doesn't go out of its way to call attention to them.
Of course, story quests, side quests, and monster-killing contracts typically involve the same set of activities: killing, talking, and activating your witcher senses, which reveal footprints and scent trails and turn Geralt into a particularly violent private investigator. It is the details that keep every task as inviting as the one that came before. It might be a change of scenery that turns an otherwise typical contract into a clash for the ages: you pull out your crossbow and shoot a screaming wyvern out of the sky with a well-placed bolt, then plunge your silver sword into its heart, all while a fire rages in the outpost beyond and lightning bolts tear across the dark sky. It might be fear that disrupts your state of mind: you search for spirits as you trudge through a murky swamp, lighting the mist with the green light that emanates from your magical lantern. The Witcher 3 makes grand gestures and small ones, too; you may battle werewolves and match wits with kings and barons, but hearing an angel-voiced trobairitz sing a plaintive ballad is a stunning show-stopper.
The writing can be best described as "lusty." Many of the land's inhabitants serve a god, but their gods have no apparent problem with them making murderous accusations and shouting obscenities. It's fitting that these people would turn to the gods yet curse them in turn, given fields ravaged by battle and littered with bloated corpses. There are a few moments that reveal the screenplay's seams: some of Geralt's lines may not make sense if you choose them in a particular order, for instance, and Geralt is concerned only with money and prefers to stay out of politics, except for when he's not like that at all, because the plot demands as much. But at least the witcher's signature dry growl remains intact, and the rambunctious Irish and Scottish accents that pervade particular regions may inspire you to head to the pub and grab a pint.
As cutting as some characters' wit may be (Sigismund Dijkstra's sarcastic barbs make him one of the game's foul-mouthed delights), you do most of your cutting with the blades sheathed on your back. The Witcher 2's combat was overly demanding at the outset, but The Witcher 3 is substantially easier; I recommend, in fact, that you choose a difficulty level one notch higher than the one you would typically choose, presuming you don't default to the most stringent one straight away. Even when things get easy, however, the combat is always satisfying, due to the crunchiness of landing blows, the howls of human foes scorched by your Igni sign, and the fearsome behavior of necrophages, wandering ghosts, and beasts of the indescribable sort. It's easy to get sidetracked and outlevel story quests, but even lesser beasts require a bit of finesse; drowners attack in numbers, for instance, knocking you about and making it difficult to swing, while winged beasts swoop in for a smackdown and require you to blast them down with a flash of fire, a shockwave, or a crossbow bolt.
The familiar magical signs return in The Witcher 3. Geralt is no mage, but he still calls on the powers of magic to assist him in combat. Character advancement is substantially improved over the previous games, providing not just passive improvements to your magical trap and your force-push technique, but also altering their very behavior. Casting Igni, for instance, initially produces a brief flash of flames. Certain upgrades, however, allow you to spray a stream of flames for as long as your energy supply supports it. Roasting a crowd of witch hunters in this way is not only satisfying on its own terms, but has a sweet justice to it: the first steps you make in the city of Novigrad lead you to a witch-burning in progress. How appropriate that you turn this punishment on the same factions that would rid the world of sorceresses and their cohorts.
The Witcher 3 finds a nigh-perfect sense of balance between giving you things to do and allowing its spaces to breathe.
Loot has a huge role to play in the game, thanks to the high degree of armor and weapon customization. Different armor sets in particular are a joy to uncover, making Geralt look more and more hardened as you progress. In many role-playing games, hunting for treasure is more of a chore to be marked off of the to-do list than a pressing adventure of its own. In The Witcher 3, discovering a diagram of new and improved chest armor is a cause for celebration. Geralt can get a shave and a haircut (and delightfully, his beard grows back over time), but otherwise, you cannot customize his physical appearance; new armor means a new look, and with it, a new visual attitude. Geralt's look evolves from that of a battered soldier, to robed battle wizard, to wisened commander, all on the basis of the game's exquisite armor designs.
The Witcher 3 also benefits from its hugely expanded potions system, which allows you to quaff potions during combat--though as always, witcher potions are dangerous, and Geralt can only have so many in effect due to their rising toxicity. Between gear diagrams and potion ingredients, I became a digital hoarder, a trap I typically avoid in role-playing games. Again, it comes down to balance: your inventory fills rapidly, but for the most part, this is not just "stuff" for the sake of "stuff." I knew that the ingredients I collected would allow me to create a potion that in turn let me dive for treasure without being annoyed by pesky sea-dwelling drowners. I knew that I could break down those horse hides I collected into armor components the local smith needed to make me look even mightier.
From one hour to the next, the compulsion to examine the landscape grows. Some of the joys that arise in the wilds are quiet ones: you mount your horse Roach and trot over the hill in time to see a rich sunset, always a treat in The Witcher 3, whose saturated reds and oranges make the sky look as beautiful and as blood-sodden as the meadows beneath them. You discover a boat and embark on an impromptu voyage through the islands of Skellige, taking note of the ship wreckage that mars the beaches and cliffs. The music swells, and a soprano intones a euphoric melody that accentuates the peacefulness. The peacefulness is always broken, however--perhaps by a journey into a dark dungeon where your torch lights the pockmarked walls and a snarling fiend waits to devour you, or by the shout of a boy crying out for your assistance.
As for the PC version, with rising concern regarding how the game looked at early showings versus how it looks at release, it’s vital to note that The Witcher 3 on PC looks absolutely wonderful, particularly if you have a reasonably powerful machine and can see the game in motion at its highest settings. Software stability is another concern now that The Witcher 3 has hit wide release. I’ve not encountered anything serious in my many hours of play, though the cliched phrase “your mileage may vary” is always an apt one. My time on the PC has been mostly problem-free, and the frame rate there has remained more consistent than on PlayStation 4 and on Xbox One, both of which reveal occasional stutters. All things considered, however, The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt is a fantastic role-playing game on all three of its platforms, and a treat for those that enjoy losing themselves in lush virtual worlds. -
The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt is undoubtedly beautiful regardless of platform, though prone to occasional bugs and visual glitches. Solving a quest's subtasks in a particular order caused the game to stick at a perpetual loading screen. Roach decided to stop galloping and lurch ahead in a weird way for minutes on end until I quick-traveled away and returned. Geralt's hair blew in the wind, even when he was indoors. It's jarring should you enter an area after quick-traveling and the citizens have yet to pop in, including quest-givers. Along with occasional console frame rate jitters, these elements may prove distracting to you should they arise, depending on your level of tolerance; even so, Geralt's newest adventure is such an achievement that I was rarely disturbed by the glitches I encountered.
These distractions stand out in part because The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt is otherwise incredible and sumptuous; the little quirks are pronounced when they are surrounded by stellar details. And make no mistake: this is one of the best role-playing games ever crafted, a titan among giants and the standard-setter for all such games going forward. Where the Witcher 2 sputtered to a halt, The Witcher 3 is always in a crescendo, crafting battle scenarios that constantly one-up the last, until you reach the explosive finale and recover in the glow of the game's quiet denouement. But while the grand clashes are captivating, it is the moments between conflicts, when you drink with the local clans and bask in a trobairitz's song, that are truly inspiring.
The Witcher 3 Next-Gen Update
Seven years later, The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt is still a staggering achievement; and thanks to the next-gen update, it’s better than ever. The free update packs in visual enhancements, fresh content, and new features, as well as an extra coat of polish. Whether you’ve played The Witcher 3 or not, it's the perfect time to explore The Northern Realms.
While the core experience is unchanged, CD Projekt Red has made a number of thoughtful tweaks and additions that further elevate The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt--the most noticeable one being the visual enhancements. On PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X, The Witcher 3 has two separate graphics modes: Performance and ray tracing. Performance mode renders the game at a constant 60 frames per second, while the ray tracing mode limits the framerate to 30, but features ray-traced lighting.
I’ve spent most of my time with the PS5 version in performance mode. Ray tracing mode adds more texture and depth to the world and interiors, but the rock solid frame rate makes performance mode preferable, especially when it comes to combat. Rolling around the battlefield, countering enemies, and casting signs feels smooth and responsive and, thankfully, the performance mode doesn’t come at the expense of resolution, at least as far as I can tell with the naked eye. Both modes utilize a dynamic resolution to ensure smooth presentation, so the only thing missing in performance mode is the ray traced lighting.
The ray tracing--while subtle--is still impressive. Interiors are the most noticeably impacted by the new feature. Light sources cast deeper and more realistic shadows onto characters and surfaces to create a warmer, more authentic scene. Outdoors, you can see the effects of it on surfaces, particularly the reflections on puddles and large bodies of water. It’s hard to recommend one setting over the other as both have their advantages and disadvantages. The performance option better suits my playstyle and taste, but if framerate isn’t all that important, then ray tracing might be the way to go.
Of course, the PC version offers the best of both worlds, provided you have a capable rig. There are a few more ray-tracing options to play around with as well as an Ultra+ graphics setting. I haven’t been able to test the PC version yet, but I’m eager to see how good this world can look on a state of the art PC.
The real showstopper is the new photo mode. While it may not be as robust as contemporary photo modes, it highlights just how gorgeous the world is and accentuates the improved visuals. You can activate photo mode by pressing in both analog sticks any time outside of cutscenes. The camera is snappy and responsive, and lets you tweak the FOV, the tilt, and a number of other visual effects. Unfortunately, you can’t adjust time of day and weather, or alter Geralt’s facial expression and pose. It’s a bummer but the basics are more than enough to capture breathtaking vistas and bloody action.
The next-gen version also introduces new alternate camera modes that are tighter on Geralt, giving a more intimate over the shoulder perspective. While this camera may not be as practical as the wider, default camera, it’s impossible for me to go back. The world is so detailed and being just a little closer to the action gives the experience more weight. The environmental storytelling is easier to parse, characters details are more noticeable, and enemies look even more vicious when they are right in your face.
This playstyle is further supported thanks to new map filters and HUD settings. If you’d like, you can remove all the exclamation points and question marks off the map and let your curiosity guide you. You can even set it so the mini-map only appears when you activate your Witcher senses. Which, paired with the closer camera angles, gives exploration a cleaner, more cinematic feel.
The next-gen update also adds a new side-quest that feels right at home in The Witcher 3. It introduces a couple of characters, and takes place in an under-utilized landmark in Velen. There are a few more surprises, which I won’t spoil, but upon completion you gain access to the Netflix-inspired gear.
When CD Projekt Red revealed that they’d be bringing Netflix-inspired gear to The Witcher 3 I was trepidacious. The world of The Witcher 3 is such a well-thought-out and focused experience. The Netflix series, by comparison, is not. I was concerned that this quest and equipment might water down the experience. Fortunately, that isn’t the case. While I still don’t plan on using Cavill’s Witcher gear, the quest itself is a welcome inclusion that gives context to the new gear and how it ended up in CD Projekt Red’s interpretation of this world. Even if you don’t plan on replaying The Witcher 3 from start to finish, I recommend loading up an old save just to check this out. At the very least, it’s worth it to hear Doug Cockle reprise his role to deliver some new lines as the White Wolf.
The only major change to the gameplay is quick sign casting. If you have it turned on, you can hold down R2 or right trigger and press one of the face buttons or L2 to quickly cast a sign. It took some getting used to, but it’s now my preferred way of sign casting. It’s nice being able to throw up a Quen right before battle by holding down R2 and pressing circle, and then immediately setting my foes on fire with Igni holding R2 and pressing L2. While it may take some time to build up the muscle memory, this small change does streamline combat quite a bit, especially on harder fights that might have you swapping signs often.
Overall, The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt’s next-gen update is an impressive collection of new features, tweaks, and enhancements that make one of the best RPGs in the last decade, even better. If you’ve never played The Witcher 3, consider this a sign to finally give it a shot. If you’ve already played The Witcher 3, there’s still enough here for the experience to feel fresh. -- Jake Dekker
Loot. Few words in gaming hold such power. The promise of sick loot is a siren song that has driven many a player to take on bold challenges and reconsider their objectives… as well as to make exceptionally poor judgments and even pry open their real-life wallets. Many games, regardless of era and platform, are fundamentally about the satisfaction of obtaining loot, but few will admit that. Dragon Quest Treasures is the rare game that states outright that accumulating a trove of legendary loot is the whole point--and, if you can endure some of its gameplay and technical foibles, you too can experience the satisfaction of having a Scrooge McDuck-like vault of gold (but not the experience of swimming in it).
Dragon Quest Treasures tells the tale of young Erik and Mia, who were first introduced in Dragon Quest XI. Dissatisfied after having been adopted by the pillaging, hard-partying Vikings, the duo decide to escape from the ship and go out on their own to become great treasure hunters. Along the way they free a duo of odd winged critters and stumble upon the Dragon Daggers, enchanted weapons that whisk them away to the realm of Draconia, where treasure hunting is a way of life. Somewhere on these floating islands lie the legendary Dragonstone artifacts, and Erik and Mia are going to get them all--along with an absurd amount of mythical relics just waiting to be dug up.
Unlike the mainline Dragon Quest series, which is turn-based and menu-driven, Dragon Quest Treasures is an action-RPG. Playing as either Erik or Mia (who are functionally identical), you explore one of several large open-world islands, defeating enemies, completing quests, gathering materials, and--most importantly--discovering those sweet, shiny silver and gold treasure chests. The more treasure they find, the more notoriety they get--and the more their base, initially a decrepit magical railroad station, becomes remodeled into a fabulously gaudy headquarters. This also opens up more gameplay elements, as well as revealing hints about the location of the elusive Dragonstones. While you can explore the game freely at your own pace, some parts are progress-locked based on how much loot you've accumulated.
Draconia isn't a tiny territory, either. The areas you can go to are surprisingly large and filled with distinct geographical features--and contain only a precious few unlockable fast-travel points in the form of railroad stations. The treasures that spawn each time you visit an area are randomized, encouraging you to both revisit well-tread territory and venture into new places. With both your restricted loot-carrying capacity and high-level enemies limiting your ability to explore, it usually takes several attempts before you manage to fully probe an entire region. The size of these areas is impressive, and the game runs at a solid 30fps most of the time, but it comes at a cost: The geometry of the environments tends to look extremely simplistic, and the textures are visibly pixelated and muddy.
Erik and Mia are at a disadvantage, as they don't have the sixth sense for locating treasure that the native Draconians do. Fortunately, they can enlist the locals for help. As their upstart treasure-hunting gang gains steam, the monsters they encounter apply for membership and can be recruited as NPC party members. Your monster recruits are very important: They fight alongside you in combat, help you navigate the environment using special "forte" skills (like gliding, bouncing high, and burrowing underground), and--most importantly--can alert you to the presence of treasure. Erik/Mia have limited use of a compass to find an approximate location of high-level treasure, but when you're really close to the prize, the monsters can give you "Treasure Visions" of the exact location. (Monster sight isn't quite the same as humans', however, so things may still look rather odd--for example, a muddy hand monster's vision looks like it has goopy film sprayed on it, while living armor can only see through the vents of its helmet.) They can also find exact locations of mid-tier treasure as you wander around--though, since treasure-carrying capacity is limited, you may opt to skip silver chests in favor of generally higher-value gold. Further along in the game, you'll also have to fend off rival gangs that attack mid-exploration to steal your hard-earned goods.
The gradual exploration of big, varied environments and your ever-growing vault of valuables makes for a very enjoyable gameplay loop. It's satisfying to watch your headquarters grow and expand while your monster ranks swell with high-level recruits and your display case fills with some of the most legendary items from across the Dragon Quest series. The charm is further bolstered by the warm, inviting atmosphere that's pervasive across the whole of the Dragon Quest franchise, including a localization that's packed with snappy dialogue and delightfully groan-worthy puns. Dragon Quest Treasures simply feels nice to play.
Unfortunately, one element of the game does its best to ruin the mood. Combat is easily the worst part of Dragon Quest Treasures, and it's an unavoidable part of exploration and progression. You and your CPU-controlled monsters all take part in battles, which happen in real time on the world map. Erik and Mia are armed with their Dragon Daggers, which offer only a basic attack combo string. While they have a pool of MP, their magic is only used for healing themselves. Instead, special attacks come in the form of a long-range slingshot, which you can load ammo (in the form of pellets) into and fire. Pellets are the only way you're able to access different forms of elemental damage, and trying to fumble your way through the pellet menu to find that one rock that will hit a foe's weakness is a hassle. Making it worse is that you also heal and put buffs on your monsters through special pellets. Trying to aim a bunch of rocks at your constantly moving monsters mid-battle to heal them or increase their defense will make you long for a more traditional action/RPG skill system.
Your monsters act of their own volition, with you only able to issue basic "attack" and "fall back" commands, which don't always seem to be heeded. Their AI is generally decent, though when it does fail, it becomes quite frustrating--one big flaw is the lack of a lock-on system to get everyone to target a specific problem enemy. The big issue, however, is that watching your monsters roll, smash, wobble, and spellcast makes it hit home just how limited and dull your own combat abilities are. It constantly feels like your CPU buddies are having a lot more fun than you are during fights, and that sense of weakness never quite goes away. Even with the special "Wild Side" skill that ups your speed, damage, and critical rate is nowhere near as cool and effective to use as your monsters' special cinematic "Unleash the Dragon" attacks.
It's a testament to how strong the other elements of Dragon Quest Treasures are that, in spite of combat frequently being unfulfilling, the game still manages to keep you eagerly coming back for more exploration and treasure-scouting. Its bright-eyed, adventurous atmosphere and rewarding core gameplay loop go a long way in carrying the game to its conclusion. It might not be the richest game out there, but for the length of its runtime, Dragon Quest Treasures does a fine job of making you feel like a bandit king.
When I spoke to several teams making games in the Left 4 Dead lineage, they each had some unique thoughts on why the game, and its resulting genre, works. But they also each echoed one similar thought: Pacing reigns supreme. Horde shooters, like Warhammer 40K Darktide, can live or die on the flow of its co-op missions. Aided by an AI director, missions must be tuned to reliably challenge, but not necessarily overwhelm the player. Impressively, Darktide gets this aspect of its grimdark missions exactly right, though the ways in which the game adds new layers don't work quite as well.
Darktide is not just a Left 4 Dead-like, it's also the spiritual successor to Fatshark's previous series in the genre, Vermintide. Moving the experience out of the base Warhammer world and into the far-flung and grimdark future of Warhammer 40K comes with a major makeover both cosmetically and mechanically. The biggest new addition comes in the form of an arsenal of firearms that have no place in the hard fantasy of traditional Warhammer. But in the 40K era, things like hand cannons, assault rifles, and electricity-infused projectiles not only fit right in, but also dramatically alter the flow of combat by adding more range-based considerations.
This massive shift is well-implemented, as enemies will match you blow for blow. Fighting from a distance will see them trading shots and taking cover, and if you--or they--are able to close the gap, they'll quickly swap to melee combat. When this happens, Darktide leans into the still-great crowd-control elements first seen in Vermintide, where both nuanced swordfighting and mindless hacking and slashing are usually viable techniques--though on higher difficulties, the former naturally becomes more crucial.
Gunplay is a bit uneven, but I suspect it's sometimes intentional. The recoil on some low-level guns, like one I was given in the tutorial, is wildly powerful, but it feels like a deliberate penalty for having such a lackluster weapon, albeit also a weird first impression. Other guns, like a revolver I equipped as my witch-like Psyker character, was easier to manage but much less powerful, but she also boasts a ranged spell attack that is meant to disable or even decapitate singular enemies at a time, giving her more than one way to cull the herd from range.
Each class comes with trade-offs like this, demanding that you buff your allies with your own strengths to cover up their weaknesses, the way the great games of this sort should emphasize. Smartly, your armor doesn't replenish unless you're near your allies, which adds a great new wrinkle to the way this sort of game punishes lone wolves.
For the freshest experience for those coming over from Vermintide, the Veteran class is the best, as they're most adept with guns and thus feel the most different from the archers and axe-throwers of Fatshark's predecessor series. No class is without melee abilities, thankfully, as the blend of ranged and melee combat is key to what makes the game's combat loop work so well.
Darktide doesn't shy from tropes of the genre that have worked before, such as mini-boss enemies that often fit familiar archetypes. This includes a beast that pounces on and immobilizes you, or another big brute that charges after you and slams you into the ground. There's even a Tank analogue, which is the toughest of the mini-bosses. Because of the gunslinging, some more novel mini-bosses show up, too, like one that fires explosive rounds at you and your crew of "Rejects."
In each case, be it novel or cliche, they work because their arrivals in the fray are well-timed and adhere to the game's exemplary pacing also demonstrated in the steady stream of common enemies, which pour in by the dozens at a time. I don't think it's a bad thing that players who are well-versed in the genre will recognize some of these enemy archetypes. Mechanically, their ability to pin players or dismantle team cohesion is critical, so it feels like there are only so many directions in which to take mini-bosses when designing a game like this.
Where Darktide adds its own depth is in its metagame of leveling up your created character (or characters). Not only do you give them a lengthy backstory which helps contextualize their history for you, but it also colors how the squadmates talk to each other, eliciting banter among the strange bedfellows as they slash and shoot through each horde. That's a fun detail that may not even be picked up by some players, but no one could overlook the loot system, which adds layers not typically seen in games like this.
Completing missions and challenges will earn you currency and materials, and with them, you can buy new weapons, even dramatically altering your character build by switching to new weapon classes--you can only equip two weapons, after all--which works well in tandem with the skills and perks you'll unlock as you improve each character to level 30. I created a very satisfying build that allowed me to ignore ammo reserves entirely, as neither my axe nor my staff, which fired projectiles that relied on my Psyker powers, depended on ammo.
This allowed me to lead from the back, as I'd clear hordes and target mini-bosses before they ever got close. Other times, and with another character, I'd go more in the guns blazing direction, with high-capacity firearms and swift swordfighting that invited a style in which I was more front-and-center with the hordes, cutting through them quickly and gunning them down in deliberate bottlenecks. When paired with creative teammates, the game's tactical elements really shine. This works well even if your group features some class overlap, but works best when one of each character class is represented, as you'll have the full range of strengths available to you, masking weaknesses nearly to the point of non-existence.
But no matter the roster, the game really relies on such cohesive squads, as just jumping into a game with randomized teammates makes anything above normal difficulty a struggle. Damage taken skyrockets, so it becomes a situation where you almost have to operate like a well-oiled machine or else you won't get far. Thus, as is often the case in games like this, it can be satisfying with friends and frustrating with strangers. This issue is exacerbated by the lesser rewards you unlock on lower difficulties. Without a reliable team, you may find it best to play on normal or easy, but the currency and other rewards you'll get for completing missions on those difficulties are not generous enough, and drag the unlock and upgrade system way down. At least when I've had enough money or supplies to improve my character's inventory, the changes have been evident, doling out that reliable sense of progress and improvement that video games are built on.
The free, earned in-game cosmetic pricing is more noticeably out of order. For roughly the cost of two or three weapons that are better than those with which you'll start the game, you can buy, for example, an alternate colorway for your pants. This creates a two-part issue where the prices are too steep and the rewards are not so desirable. There are other cosmetics, too, but so far they're mostly lackluster. The best stuff on offer is in the real-money shop, and in there, prices are roughly what you might be used to--full head-to-toe outfits will cost you $8-12. However, those prices are usually seen in free-to-play games, whereas Darktide is a fully-priced game that currently has too few interesting cosmetics available for free. The game has intentions of a live-service game, and in its defense, many live-service games open with too few enticing cosmetics, but the pricing for what's there compounds the issue.
Speaking of cosmetics, the game's look as a whole is unappealing, though I admit your mileage may vary as this feeling stems from my personal disinterest in its source material. Warhammer 40K is an ugly world, speaking both morally and aesthetically. Fatshark manages to give levels a general sense of scale and atmosphere that I expect is faithful to the IP, but the combination of ubiquitous rusted steel on vaguely church-like venues, albeit a neat, metal music video-style juxtaposition enhanced by great original music, fails to separate any one mission from another. Thus, they all quickly blend together. Missions are selected on an overworld map within a shared social hub a la Destiny, or you can jump into quickplay according to your difficulty settings, and several times when I was thrown into a mission, it took me a surprising amount of time to realize that I'd already played a particular level before. Outside of major set pieces, none of them do well to stand out.
This also affects the story, as you'll likely play it out of order given how matchmaking seems indifferent to your story progress--though you can override this by choosing specific missions with possibly longer queue times. As a result, the story feels like little more than background lore, even as the game likes to throw you into cutscenes at times. For players bringing Warhammer fandom into the experience, I bet they'll get more out of it, but for others, it's going to feel out-of-context and skippable.
Darktide feels like both the natural progression of Vermintide's best parts as well as an exemplar of some growing pains in the live-service world. Things like combat, pacing, and team builds are expertly considered and crafted, but metagame elements such as chasing loot and cosmetics have some issues that are admittedly common when a team tries to create a new game with a long tail. It's both a promising Left 4 Dead-like and a flawed live service, but its issues are fixable, and the growth of Vermintide suggests that Darktide will also enjoy a long shelf life as one of the better games of its kind.
The first thing that jumps out when starting Need for Speed Unbound is its vibrant art style. At a time when most other racing games are striving for photorealism, EA's latest distinguishes itself from the rest of the grid by adopting a stylized mix between reality and comic books. While its cars land on the side of realism, the characters behind the wheel are cel-shaded and its open world falls somewhere in between the two aesthetics. Vivid graffiti-style flourishes also pop up when you activate nitrous or fly off a ramp, and drifting kicks up colorful tire smoke that looks hand-drawn, with all of these effects punctuating the action with a unique sense of style.
There aren't any modern racing games that look quite like it, yet the rest of Unbound feels like a continuation of 2019's Need for Speed Heat. From the distinction between day and night races to the cat-and-mouse chase that occurs when you have to outrun the cops and make it to a safe house in order to bank your money. Unbound doesn't attempt to reinvent the wheel, but what's here maintains the series' recent quality, even if there are some wrong turns along the way.
As is now customary in Need for Speed games, Unbound features a rather forgettable story about getting back at a former friend who stole your ride. There's little point in delving into details because, ultimately, it's inconsequential. Cutscenes are sprinkled in every now and then, but for the most part, the story is just sort of there, happening in the background as you drive around the city, so at least it's unobtrusive. There's some fun incidental dialogue every now and then, including one mission where you're traveling with a "weeb racer" who spends the whole journey telling you about the history of anime and how it definitely isn't a cartoon. Rapper A$AP Rocky also makes an appearance (because why not?) and it feels like he was given a microphone and free rein to say whatever came to mind. It's a moment that stands out in a game that's filled to the brim with ancillary dialogue. Aside from this, the story is relatively easy to ignore, but it does succeed in giving impetus to the game's structure.
Unbound takes place across four in-game weeks. At the end of each week, there's a series of qualifying races that eventually lead to a grand finale where your aim is to exact revenge by winning the whole thing. There's a buy-in for each qualifier, so you'll spend the days leading up to each one taking part in various races and events in order to earn enough money to enter and upgrade your car along the way. Aside from racking up stacks of cash, each of these events also catches the attention of the local police force. If you're busted by the cops before making it back to a safe house, you lose all of your winnings and must move on to the next day, adding tension to each run-in with the law.
Need for Speed Heat adopted a similar structure, but while that game featured legal street races throughout the day and illegal street races at night, Unbound takes the illicit route 24/7. This means there's no respite from the police's attention, and any money you make during sunlight hours needs to be banked at a safe house before you can transition to the evening's races. Your heat level carries over, too, and only resets once you're done for the night, so it's up to you how much police presence you want to accumulate throughout the day before the sun disappears over the horizon. Night events tend to feature significantly higher payouts, but they often require a particular level of heat or a sizeable buy-in if you want to participate. You can still earn money taking on smaller events, but the increased risk of the larger events comes with big cash prizes. You're forced to weigh up your options when deciding what to do on a day-to-day basis.
These decisions are more impactful during the early game when the cars you're driving aren't quite up to snuff. Unbound is surprisingly challenging in its first few hours, and I appreciate how hard it makes you work to achieve victory. You're competing against drivers that are simply faster than you, racing in souped-up cars that your initial junker can't keep up with. You begin by butting heads with those at the back of the pack, but you can place a bet at the start of each race that you'll finish above a certain driver, giving you the chance to earn some extra cash while setting a target to beat even if you're not competing for first place. Eventually, as the money starts flowing in and you're able to afford more vehicle upgrades, you can see the gap close as you start achieving higher finishes and picking up victories. You're made to work your way up and the end result is a palpable and satisfying sense of progression.
Unbound's driving model is also flexible enough to allow for a couple of different racing styles. Each car's handling falls into one of three categories: drift, grip, and neutral (which sits in the middle of the other two.) If you love careening around corners sideways, a car that emphasizes drifting will make life easier. On the other hand, if you prefer slowing down and hitting the apex of each corner, a grippy car is advantageous. Whichever style you choose rewards you with a chunk of nitrous for pulling these cornering techniques off successfully, which makes both viable. No matter which car you choose, however, they're all afflicted with a severe case of understeer. This makes it feel like you're trying to steer a bus around the city, but I found that you can alleviate the issue somewhat by going into each vehicle's handling settings and moving the slider for steering sensitivity to "high." It's not an ideal solution but does make the handling feel more responsive and precise.
Like other arcade racers of its ilk, Unbound is built around accumulating NOS by performing different actions such as drafting behind other racers, driving into oncoming traffic, and getting airborne. You have a standardized nitrous meter that can be consumed in one go for a lengthy speed boost, but Unbound also introduces another type called Burst Nitrous. As the name implies, this lets you activate a short burst that operates off of its own charge system. Drifting, for instance, will fill up this separate meter, letting you explode out of a corner with a rapid surge of speed. It's a fun new addition that gives you more opportunities to take advantage of nitrous while also incentivizing risky driving.
The only downside is that the AI doesn't always play fair. Other drivers have a tendency to match your pace whenever you deploy nitrous, whether they themselves are boosting or not, which dilutes the delight that activating NOS should invoke. The leading AI car will sometimes zoom ahead as well, finishing the race more than 30 seconds faster than everyone else. This happens seemingly at random and feels like reverse rubber banding, giving you no chance of catching up.
Other frustrations revolve around the police, particularly early on. You have little recourse when it comes to fighting back, so police chases can last for a good long while when your car's not the fastest. This ramps up the tension even further and the pervasive feeling that you're severely outmatched isn't a negative, but it's disheartening when you finally evade capture only to enter another protracted chase when a police car spawns in front of you. Undercover cops feel particularly cheap as well, since they don't appear on your radar. Even later on, when escaping becomes much easier, Unbound floods the streets with additional cops which makes getting from race to race a tedious affair.
Some of these issues were also present in Need for Speed Heat, doubling down on the notion that Unbound is a lateral move rather than one that pushes the series forward. It's no worse nor better than its predecessor, making for another exciting arcade racer that's still held back by a few annoyances. It's another positive outcome following the low point that was Need for Speed Payback, but Unbound is unlikely to emerge from the shadows of the genre's most popular games.
A remake of the 2007 PSP exclusive Crisis Core: Final Fantasy VII, Crisis Core Reunion is a faithful retelling of Zack Fair's story with dramatic visual upgrades, full voice acting, and several quality-of-life changes. Considering the game was already heralded as a fantastic prequel and one of the best titles on PSP, it comes as little surprise that this version is triumphant in making Crisis Core into a modern day must-play for Final Fantasy VII fans. Not only does Crisis Core Reunion port the once fairly difficult-to-find game to several new consoles, allowing for a greater audience to experience the title, it transforms the game from feeling like a smaller, handheld experience into something that can proudly stand beside Final Fantasy VII Remake as a worthy companion.
Crisis Core: Final Fantasy VII Reunion follows Zack Fair, a skilled young man who quickly moves up the rank of soldier--Shinra's elite fighting force--to stand beside other legendary heroes like Genesis, Angeal, and the later-notorious Sephiroth. However, once information regarding the various experiments Shinra conducted on these elite warriors begins to surface, the four colleagues quickly find themselves at odds with each other. Inevitably, these tensions set into motion the events of Final Fantasy VII, including Sephiroth's turn toward madness, the burning of Nibelheim, and Cloud's involvement in the whole ordeal. However, Crisis Core doesn't solely exist as a precursor to something bigger, as it succeeds in weaving an engaging, intimate, and emotionally impactful narrative of its own.
A lot of this is due to the game's protagonist. Whereas Final Fantasy VII's leading man, Cloud Strife, has a tendency to be soft-spoken and a bit moody, Zack is exuberant and extraordinarily likeable. Throughout the game, Zack's mentor, Angeal, likens the fighter to a puppy and affectionately teases him for his hyperactivity and eagerness. However, when compared to the other SOLDIER members--like the stoic Angeal, dark and poetic Genesis, and no-nonsense Sephiroth--Zack is a breath of fresh air who is widely idolized within the SOLDIER program (particularly by Cloud) for his proficiency, zeal, and encouraging nature. Outside of Shinra, these qualities also endear him to our favorite flower girl, Aerith, who shares a brief but powerful love story with Zack, complete with long-distance phone calls and tender letters.
In Crisis Core Reunion, the emotional impact of all these events is amplified thanks to the entire game now having full voice acting. While some voices might take getting used to, as they differ from the original Crisis Core's performances, the new voice actors do a fantastic job in making the story more engaging than ever before. This voice acting also profoundly impacts how we view Sephiroth as the story progresses--Tyler Hoechlin's performance makes him even more sympathetic as the truth about his birth is slowly brought to light and his downward spiral becomes more heartbreaking. On that note, I was delighted to hear several of the series' new voice actors lend their talents to the characters who appear in Crisis Core Reunion, including Tifa, Aerith, Tseng, Reno, Rude, and several others. This is all a part of Square Enix's push to make Crisis Core more cohesive with Final Fantasy VII Remake, which it ultimately does with gusto.
This feat is also accomplished by how much care the team put into visually upgrading Crisis Core. Every location is lush, intricate, and has been adjusted to more closely resemble the world we see in Final Fantasy VII Remake, which makes the game's trips to Junon, Costa Del Sol, Nibelheim, Shinra Manor, and Gongaga--areas that we're yet to venture to in the remakes, but will see in the future--a bit surreal. In Crisis Core Reunion, we're presumably getting our first look at just what lies ahead for us in Final Fantasy VII Rebirth, which, if you're a die-hard fan, makes the game well-worth playing in itself. As someone who has spent the last few years yearning to see what wandering throughout Shinra Manor will feel like, or how grand the streets of Junon might feel as Cloud is tasked with parading down them, it was an emotional experience to see even a less graphically intensive glimpse at what's on the horizon.
Crisis Core's gameplay systems remain intact, albeit streamlined and remapped in fantastic ways. Those not familiar with the gameplay will find it to be unusual but exciting. Rather than Final Fantasy VII's turn-based system, Crisis Core Reunion features fast-paced action-style combat. While the game's simplistic hacking, slashing, and blocking is a fun time by itself, with challenging enemies requiring fast reflexes and quick planning, Zack can also equip up to six pieces of materia, which grant him spells and abilities he can use in battle. In the original Crisis Core, cycling through all these combat options could be daunting, as you were forced to use R1 and L1 to scroll through them all, then hit X on which one you wanted to use. In Crisis Core Reunion, this has been completely overhauled, as you now can hold R1 and assign all these abilities to various buttons to make combat less frustrating and more efficient.
Crisis Core Reunion also improves one of the original game's most notable features: the Digital Mind Wave. Also referred to as the DMW, it's a constantly spinning, slot machine-style combat enhancer that lurks in the upper left corner of your screen during combat. The icons featured on the slots are characters and summons you meet throughout the game, with characters providing you with limit breaks based on Zack's relationship to them, and summons granting you the ability to, well, summon them. As your relationships with certain characters are altered, you become more or less likely to see them make an appearance in the DMW. In theory, it's an incredibly strange feature, as this slot machine is responsible for allowing you to dish out your hardest-hitting moves as well as level up. In execution, however, the DMW is extremely fun and satisfying, generally working out fairly well for players while also introducing an element of randomness to battles that keep them fresh.
In the original Crisis Core, this feature did earn some criticism for its "modulating phase," which would grind battles to a halt as the slots took up the entire screen. These phases no longer exist, though Crisis Core Reunion will still interrupt battles to show brief cutscenes when the slots land on certain characters. Considering the time we get with Zack is so brief, I found these cutscenes not only fascinating to watch, but needed. As an extroverted person who is supremely devoted to the people around him (just take a look at how many text messages the guy gets), having this mechanic where Zack's relationships play a role on his mental state--and subsequently the way he battles--is a brilliant choice that tells us a lot about him without adding hours onto Crisis Core's story. All these unique qualities create a tangible difference in Final Fantasy VII and Crisis Core's gameplay, which drives just how different Zack and Cloud truly are.
Crisis Core also features materia fusion, which allows you to take leveled up materia and combine it with other types to create new and more powerful spells and abilities. While grinding materia out in Final Fantasy VII was arguably already fun, the implementation of this fusion system makes it even more satisfying. Rather than simply raising how powerful your Fira becomes, materia fusion allows you to create entirely new spells all together, such as combining said Fira with Assault Twister to create Fira Blade, an ability that inflicts magic damage while not using MP. Additionally, you can add items during fusion that, when equipped on Zack, alter his stats. I spent a lot of time managing and fusing my materia while playing Crisis Core Reunion, and despite being someone who doesn't necessarily love crafting, I enjoyed every minute of it.
However, not all of Crisis Core Reunion's grinds have aged quite as well. For starters, the game has far too many random battles. At times, I found myself sprinting with Zack pressed up against the game's walls to avoid being in the centralized areas that trigger them. Additionally, Crisis Core Reunion has a lot of side missions. Considering the game was originally created to exist on a handheld console, it is understandable: Each of these missions last for a few minutes and would be ideal to play through if you have a few spare minutes while out and about. Removed from that context when played on a console, these missions are not as satisfying. And, considering how similar they are even if the background stories are slightly different, they quickly grow repetitive.
That being said, Crisis Core Reunion is marketed as a direct remake, so it makes sense it's all there and I can't fault the studio for carrying over pre-existing content too much. Even so, the game would have greatly benefited from finding ways to make this content more worthwhile and less outdated in feel. Really the only feature I would argue was woefully neglected by the studio is the game's dialogue, which can come across as awkward and very "early 2000s JRPG" in feel. This is exacerbated by just how incredible the dialogue changes and additions were in Final Fantasy VII Remake, which enhanced already-fantastic characters as well as made the overall story deeper and more comprehensible. While Crisis Core Reunion did not set out to expand or reimagine the same way Remake did, a few alterations--and less awkward pauses from Aerith--would have gone a long way.
Ultimately, if you go into Crisis Core Reunion expecting a one-for-one remake of Crisis Core, quirks and all, you will not be the slightest bit disappointed. It is a greatly improved version of a great game, one that all Final Fantasy VII fans eager for more story would benefit from playing. While you shouldn't expect any new content or story revisions (sincere apologies to all of you who were hoping, I'll admit I was too), you can expect a powerful ode to the kindest man you'll ever meet and the legacy he passed on.
Despite releasing a full 15 years later, you could argue that The Callisto Protocol is the spiritual predecessor to Dead Space, given the original pitch from director Glen Schofield was for Visceral Games' survival-horror title to be set within a prison, not a mining vessel. And in a lot of ways, The Callisto Protocol similarly dazzles with its incredible art direction and sound design, even emulating Dead Space's over-the-shoulder third-person perspective and integrated HUD. However, The Callisto Protocol goes its own way by focusing on melee strikes and dodges, utilizing a combat system that feels great at first but isn't suitable for the game's more action-focused latter half. Plus, lengthy death animations compound the frustrations of surprise difficulty spikes, creating an experience that feels like an uneven mix of horror and action that fails to adequately commit to or excel at either.
In The Callisto Protocol, you play as Jacob Lee, a freight transporter contracted to ferry cargo for the United Jupiter Company, moving supplies from the UJC-operated Black Iron Prison on Callisto to the colony on Europa. On a routine trip back to Black Iron, Jacob's ship is boarded by Outer Way, a group blamed for a recent terrorist attack on Europa. In the ensuing struggle, Jacob and Outer Way leader Dani Nakamura are the only survivors, stranded on Callisto. They're both picked up by Black Iron security head Captain Leon Ferris and incarcerated in the prison on orders from warden Duncan Cole. Jacob awakes in Black Iron hours later, discovering a mysterious infection has been released into the prison, transforming the prisoners and guards into biophage monsters. Escaping from his cell, he teams up with fellow prisoner Elias Porter to find a way out.
The Callisto Protocol doesn't devote too much time to storytelling and worldbuilding. None of the characters (save for Elias) are especially likable, and though the main villain has an intriguing motivation--you can clearly see how The Callisto Protocol was originally intended to fit into the PUBG: Battlegrounds' universe once you find out what the bad guy is up to--it's only revealed right as the game is concluding. I wish it had been revealed far sooner because, though the ramifications of it are interesting, there's not enough space in the plot for those ramifications to be explored. The game fleshes out the world up to that point with optional audio logs to discover, but most don't actually reveal all that much, and those that do aren't very interesting to listen to. It's ultimately not worth going off the path in pursuit of these collectibles.
The Callisto Protocol features a combat system heavily focused on melee attacks and dodging while also keeping a careful eye on resources and health. This encourages a hyperaggressive fighting style where getting within clawing range of the threat and overwhelming them with a quick but controlled beating is the key to success. Dodging is fairly simple to pull off, though curiously assigned to the same stick used to control Jacob's movement. Not only do you use the left stick on a controller to move Jacob, but pushing it to the left or right as an enemy attacks you is how you dodge in either direction. In one-on-one encounters, this isn't too much of a problem--you're facing the threat at hand and moving or dodging accordingly. But it becomes unmanageable when confronted with larger groups of enemies. When you're surrounded by multiple biophages, turning to keep track of an enemy could cause you to dodge an attack from a different enemy instead, potentially repositioning you into a disadvantageous corner and twisting the camera away from the threat you're trying to track. It doesn't happen every time, but it happens enough to be frustrating, and in a game as difficult as The Callisto Protocol, losing track of your positioning even for a moment can result in taking game-over-inducing damage.
The integrated HUD works against The Callisto Protocol's combat in this regard. Much like Dead Space, The Callisto Protocol doesn't feature a traditional user interface. Instead, Jacob's health is conveyed via the life support system grafted to the back of his neck. And instead of an ammo counter in the bottom corner of the screen, it's displayed as a holographic projection on whichever gun Jacob is holding. In a game like Dead Space where protagonist Isaac Clarke is battling necromorphs from a controlled distance, it's a lot easier to quickly glance at the displays on Isaac's armor and keep an eye on the approaching necromorphs, weighing the situation against your current health and ammo count. It also helps that Isaac doesn't really move when firing any of his weapons, managing to keep all his systems in clear view at all times. But in The Callisto Protocol, Jacob is moving around a lot more, twisting his body as he dodges attacks or swings his stun baton within the throes of close-quarters combat. It's difficult to keep track of your resources because not only is the threat at hand more immediate, the displays detailing the relevant information are moving around more.
If you happen to miss that your health bar has devolved from a healthy green to a flashing red in the midst of a fight, you'll be unaware that the next hit you suffer will likely be your last. On any difficulty, the biophages hit hard and fast. Most of The Callisto Protocol's horror comes from the unskippable death animations you're subjected to when Jacob dies, all of which are gruesome. But after the second or third time one happens, these death animations lose their shock factor and become tedious--and if you're stuck on one difficult combat encounter or challenging boss fight, they're quite frustrating. The first time I saw Jacob's head getting caved in, I grimaced, but by the third or fourth time, I just wanted the game to load the encounter again. I've seen Jacob die. It's gross. I get it. Don't waste my time and just let me try again, or at least allow me to skip any death animations I've already seen. The most egregious of these examples occurred when an autosave checkpoint locked me into a fight against a miniboss where Jacob only had a sliver of health, and so I had to watch him get stomped to death almost a dozen times as I tried to just understand what I was supposed to do to overcome the threat. Thankfully, nothing that bad ever happened again, but it's irksome that The Callisto Protocol really only horrifies through failure. There's nothing about the actual experience that's all that scary or horrific save for the gruesome nature of how Jacob can die, which only curates irritation, not fear.
The Callisto Protocol opts for cheap jump scares way more often than it should, even repeating the same scares numerous times. Some of these I do like--hearing a biophage rummaging through the vents and desperately turning every which way in a vain attempt to track its movements, only for it to burst out of the floor behind me is a thrill. But having a little screaming slug burst out of a closed locker a dozen times across the entirety of the game is a bit much. Having it happen once or twice would have been enough to make me weary of opening lockers in search of ammo, but their actual frequency only ensured I expected it to always happen. And a scare isn't all that scary when you're already expecting it.
As you continue to explore Black Iron, you find blueprints for new firearms, allowing Jacob's arsenal to evolve through the magic of Black Iron's futuristic 3D printers. Alongside the stun baton, Jacob acquires a host of firearms and the GRP device (a gravity-manipulating gauntlet used by Black Iron guards to control prisoners that Jacob repurposes as a weapon). Right around the time you acquire the GRP device, The Callisto Protocol's combat is at its absolute best. During those early chapters, you're repeatedly threatened with two or three hard-hitting enemies at a time, and your trusty sidearm and GRP can give you great crowd control when your dodges won't cut it alone.
New avenues of combat open up with the addition of these weapons, too. Landing several melee attacks on an enemy in a row will temporarily stun them, for example, opening them up for a precision shot from your firearm that deals extra damage and can carve off the arms or legs of your foe. This can significantly alter your situation--a biophage without legs will have to slowly crawl its way toward you, for instance, while one missing an arm doesn't have as much offensive potential. Alternatively, the GRP can be used to pick up and launch biophages into environmental hazards like spinning fan blades or spike-lined walls. There's an especially cool moment where Jacob has to fight his way down a hallway as enemies steadily approach from the other side one-by-one, and methodically pushing through them with murderous swings of the stun baton, a few well-placed shots, and the occasional use of the GRP is exhilarating. The game sadly never quite delivers on the thrill of that moment ever again, but it's a shining example of what The Callisto Protocol could have been throughout its runtime.
Instead, about midway through The Callisto Protocol, you start facing much larger groups of enemies in wider spaces where biophages come at you from multiple sides, and the game's carefully curated combat quickly devolves, reducing your options in combat to mindlessly swinging and quickly blasting off a precision shot whenever the indicator pops up. As enemies grow more plentiful, Jacob starts finding firearms with wider and harder-hitting bullet spreads, like a shotgun and railgun, encouraging you to abandon precision even further in favor of just dealing damage as quickly as possible in order to survive. It's not especially challenging to simply swing with abandon, dodge when you can, shoot your gun without really aiming, and hope for the best, and it's not very fun either.
As the game races towards its finish, The Callisto Protocol ratchets up the action, not the tension it had so carefully curated in its opening moments, fully distancing itself from horror and embracing the violently absurd. It all culminates in two final chapters filled with challenging miniboss fights (sometimes almost back-to-back) and a frustrating final battle so detached from where The Callisto Protocol started that it feels like you're playing a completely different game. As Jacob was pumping energy blasts into the face of the two-story final boss with his assault rifle and explosive rounds shotgun, tanking acid spit thanks to his power armor, I had to pause and wonder how I'd arrived at such a situation. Not once did I have to swing the stun baton in that fight--The Callisto Protocol had just become a third-person action shooter, abandoning the core concept it originally built its combat around. Any of the enjoyable fear and tension I'd experienced in the early chapters had been gone for hours at that point.
To be fair, The Callisto Protocol does change things up for one level in the latter half of the game, trapping Jacob in a series of tunnels filled with biophages who are blind but sensitive to noise, thus encouraging you to approach encounters with stealth instead of the usual swinging and shooting. It's a somewhat enjoyable change of pace--The Callisto Protocol's stealth mechanics aren't anything to write home about, but having a level exclusively focus on them does at least satisfyingly break up the high-octane action for a spell. The level only lasts for a short time, though, and soon you're back to the less entertaining action-focused set pieces from before.
The Callisto Protocol is a very pretty game when you pause between the biophage smashing to take a look at it. When Jacob gets his first good glimpse at Jupiter, I was struck by just how beautiful the view was, the planet's striking image suspended imposingly over the tiny moon of Callisto, much like the UJC's massive influence hangs over what's happening in Black Iron. Character models are rendered in incredible detail as well, especially the main cast--when Jacob is talking to Dani, it looks like their actors, Josh Duhamel and Karen Fukuhara respectively, speaking to one another. The mocap work is at its best in Sam Witwer's performance as the antagonistic Ferris, whose face twists with malicious glee as he abuses Jacob, or takes on a cold air when discussing concerns that don't impact him. Witwer's portrayal of Ferris's slow descent into madness is easily one of the best parts of the game, and I wish the corrupt prison guard had shown up in the story as a recurring villain more often than the three times he did.
The sound design is also impressive, with 3D sound mapping the noises of a space so that you can hear an enemy winding up for an attack and identify every biophage type by the distinct noises they make--a huge advantage given how dark or foggy most of The Callisto Protocol's environments are. Jacob's weapons crunch against the enemy bone with a twisted snap and melt skin with a crisp sizzle as well, providing a welcome auditory cue for when you hit your mark. In the frantic melee of most fights, the sound design saved me on more than a few occasions.
Overall, individual elements of The Callisto Protocol are just at odds with one another too often. The enemy design and melee-focused combat mechanics lend themselves to these incredibly tense and fun close-quarters brawls when you're only fighting against a couple of targets at a time, but the game regularly locks you into frantic moshpits or frustratingly difficult boss fights instead. And despite the vocal talent and mocap skill on display, The Callisto Protocol's story isn't all that interesting, save for an intriguing final twist. Some genuine horror might have improved the experience of this survival-action game, but The Callisto Protocol instead leans too far into absurd high-octane spectacle, dampening the tension and adulterating the narrative core of the experience.
Marvel's Midnight Suns begins with the Avengers in a tough spot--the prophesied return of an eldritch god is on the horizon, having been brought about by Lilith, who now leads an army of HYDRA soldiers and demonic children in a war against humanity. The Avengers aren't adequately prepared to tackle such a supernatural threat, so they turn to Doctor Strange and his newest apprentice, Scarlet Witch, for aid. After their first attempt at fighting Lilith goes sideways, Strange introduces the world's mightiest heroes to the contingency plan: the Midnight Suns, a group of young heroes who each wield magical, supernatural, or demonic powers.
That's where your character, The Hunter, comes in. As the child of Lilith, you possess incredible magical abilities, which is what helped you defeat her 300 years ago. That final duel left both you and Lilith dead, but just as HYDRA managed to bring your mother back to life, the Midnight Suns are able to do the same for you. Not content to leave the fate of the world up to others, the Avengers also decide to set up shop in the Midnight Suns' headquarters, The Abbey, to join the fight against Lilith.
The major conflict in Marvel's Midnight Suns is explored through the tried-and-true formula of, "What happens when the old guard meets the new kids?" In Marvel's Midnight Suns, the Avengers have already overcome the likes of Ultron, Galactus, Thanos, and other would-be apocalypses, so they're not particularly eager to get input from a newly formed team of much younger heroes. And the Midnight Suns believe the Avengers are a bloated waste of space for the mission at hand, as the older team is ill-prepared to tackle a magical threat with the science they've relied on for decades.
Marvel's Midnight Suns doesn't do anything new with this kind of storyline, but it does create plenty of interesting moments throughout its 45-hour runtime. Heroes like Iron Man and Captain America find solace in their struggles with their figurative demons from the perspectives of those who have dealt with literal ones all their lives. What does it look like when Tony Stark, who's fully cognizant of his alcoholism and believes he's come to terms with all of the bad life choices he's made through the good he's accomplished as Iron Man, meets Robbie Reyes, a Ghost Rider directly impacted by the sins of Stark Industries that Tony has wilfully ignored? These are the types of questions that Marvel's Midnight Suns asks and answers, and the storylines are regularly intriguing if a little straightforward.
More enjoyable complexity is found in the combat missions the team embarks on to fight against Lilith and her army. Each mission is structured around a turn-based tactical combat system in which you guide the positioning, attacks, and defenses of your characters before the enemy has a go at you, and then you respond in turn. Firaxis Games' work on the XCOM series is strongly represented here, with Marvel's Midnight Suns trading in soldiers and aliens for superheroes and demons. However, it's not exactly a one-to-one replication. Unlike XCOM, character attacks and abilities always hit their mark--there's no way for an enemy to lower the chance of you hitting them. This ensures that the superheroes you're playing as always feel as powerful as they are depicted in other media and that, within the scope of a single turn, your actions will play out as you intend.
Removing XCOM's frustrating percentage system--which could cause even the most well-planned strategies to inexplicably fail--makes the turn-based tactical combat in Marvel's Midnight Suns a lot more fun. It's rewarding to see a plan come together as intended. In its place is a deckbuilding card system, ensuring that even if each individual turn plays out as you planned, you don't know what you'll be able to do on your next turn until it begins and you draw your hand. In this way, there's still an element of challenging randomness to every encounter, encouraging you to think strategically through every mission, but it's being used to test your ability to think and plan on the fly. That's way better than having to trust in an unseen dice roll that may screw you over and see you somehow miss shooting a bad guy who's two feet away because the hit percentage was only 98% and you just got unlucky.
There's one exception to the use of unseen dice rolls and that's knocking enemies off the map, whether it's over the side of a skyscraper or into one of Ghost Rider's pits into hell. If you try to push an enemy off the map, the game will inform you of the percentage chance of that happening. I can understand the intent, as successfully knocking an enemy off the map counts as an instant knockout, so giving players a way of cheesing tough encounters would have been a bit much. Instead, this one part of the game acts as a last-ditch effort lifeline. If your back is against the wall, you might be able to clear the field a bit with a few lucky shoves, but if you want a sure thing, it's better to strategize with the cards you've been dealt and rely on your heroes' abilities.
And Marvel's Midnight Suns gives you a solid lineup of heroes right out of the gate, feeding you new faces (and more cards for the existing roster) at regular intervals--your available strategies evolve at a steady pace and no character feels useless if you want to experiment. Each character fulfills a distinct role--Captain Marvel's cards allow her to build up shields and taunt enemies with powerful bionic attacks as an incredible tank, for instance. Ghost Rider, meanwhile, is a risky DPS with plenty of attacks that damage both enemies and himself, but also has cards that allow him to replenish health from the enemies he defeats. Missions have a variety of structures too--you may be tasked with saving civilians while also holding off enemy attacks, or told you to need to destroy wave after wave of enemies that are escalating in strength. Between the different mission types and numerous characters (all of whom possess dozens of cards you can put in or leave out of your deck, upgrade, or modify), Marvel's Midnight Suns doesn't get repetitive.
Each character can only bring a deck of 10 cards with them into battle. This keeps each individual character deck small enough to manage but large enough to diversify with a few different strategies so you can better adapt to the mission. Some cards allow you to build Heroism, which can be spent to play powerful Heroic cards. Cards can be upgraded to deal more damage or modified with different effects, allowing for even more customization. One of the best secondary effects a card can have is knockback, which allows you to push an enemy. That can be used to knock one enemy into another, damaging both, or to send an enemy into an environmental hazard like an explosive container or fuse box. Certain parts of every environment can also be used by spending Heroism--a loose rock can be thrown, for example, or a hanging stack of crates dropped onto a group of unsuspecting enemies. There's a great deal of choice in how you use your cards and the battlefield to your advantage, with dozens of potential combinations and configurations based on who you're bringing to the mission and what cards you have in their deck.
The game does a great job ensuring you're switching things up, too. Heroes can get injured if they take too much damage on a mission or suffer repeated wounds on several missions in a row, meaning it's best to constantly rotate who you're bringing into the next operation. And even if you don't and just want to muscle through with who you like (which is totally viable; it will just be challenging to only use injured characters), an auto-leveling system ensures that the heroes you don't use as often never get left too far behind. So if a story mission requires you to use a character you haven't played as much or you just want to try using someone you haven't played as in a while, they'll still be viable picks. The game ensures that all characters are at the minimum level required for the next story mission.
There's another interesting wrinkle to combat: The Hunter's morality. Throughout Marvel's Midnight Suns, The Hunter's morality will be questioned and certain cards in The Hunter's deck can cause it to shift, pushing them more towards Light or Dark. As you swing towards one or the other, you'll unlock new abilities and cards associated with those different moralities. Light cards are aimed at healing and buffing allies while Dark cards all tend towards dealing a lot of damage or twisting an enemy's mind against them. This gives you a tremendous amount of agency over The Hunter's deck, which features more cards than any other character's. The Hunter can be your squad's best support character, its most dangerous damage dealer, or some mixture of both. The choice is yours, and it's awesome to see how your decision to use certain types of cards unlocks more cards of that type. Similarly, you'll more quickly unlock new cards for whichever heroes you bring on missions to fight alongside The Hunter, meaning you're always earning cards for who you want to play.
Between missions, you spend most of your time at The Abbey, dividing the experience of playing Marvel's Midnight Suns into an easy-to-understand loop of activities. You wake up in The Abbey, talk to allies and make evening plans, find out what new cards you've earned, upgrade your deck, select and go on a mission, return to The Abbey for your evening plans, go to bed, repeat. There are enough steps to the cycle that no one aspect becomes repetitive, and it helps create time clearly devoted to learning more about the heroes on your team. The Hunter is promoted to an intriguing place within the hierarchy of the heroes--the members of both the Midnight Suns and the Avengers look to them for leadership given their role in Lilith's first defeat. Still, The Hunter is largely regarded as an outsider at the start of the game, with everyone initially looking at you with cordial respect, not casual friendliness. To change that, you need to spend time with each hero or sign up for casual group activities like Blade's book club.
When hanging out, you're regularly presented with dialogue options for The Hunter in conversation. How you speak to others will determine how The Hunter's relationship with them develops--speaking in a way a character finds favorable will boost your friendship score with that hero, while saying something they find disrespectful or foolhardy will lower your score. This means you have to take the time to get to know a character to best boost your relationship with them. Nico won't be a fan of yours if you tattle on her secret research to the adults, for example, liking you a lot more if you encourage her to work behind the Avengers' backs instead.
This method of building friendships with certain characters doesn't feel artificial at all, largely for how Marvel's Midnight Suns also ties The Hunter's morality to dialogue. Of the handful of dialogue options you have in every conversation, two or three are typically associated with Light or Dark, allowing you to influence The Hunter's morality outside of combat. And in most situations, those Light and Dark choices are what defines whether you raise or lower your friendship score with the hero you're talking to. Your teammates in The Abbey don't collectively view the world in black and white, so if you want to raise your friendship with certain characters, that could mean picking a Dark morality option when you're striving for a Hunter that embraces the Light, and vice versa.
The heroes exist on a spectrum of morality--Magik is the Dark extreme, Captain America is the Light extreme, and all the others fall somewhere in between, favoring Light or Dark choices depending on the situation. But you don't always want to pick the optimal option in every scenario to raise your friendship with a hero. It's not in your best interest to be a people-pleaser to everyone, as you'll neither grow especially Dark or Light and miss out on acquiring some of The Hunter's best cards. With friendship and morality mixing together, Marvel's Midnight Suns cleverly reflects how relationships work in real life, encouraging you to find your people, and in doing so, those characters' moralities rub off on The Hunter and inform the type of hero and person they become. If you want to get closer to Spider-Man and Doctor Strange, The Hunter will naturally achieve a more Light-focused morality, for example, and their morality will become Dark if you prefer hanging out with the likes of Ghost Rider and Magik.
It's in these smaller interactions between The Hunter and the individual members of their team that the game manages to squeeze out those genuinely incredible moments. Building up your friendship with certain heroes unlocks additional cutscenes and conversations with them, many of which culminate in heartwarming reveals or devastating discoveries. Magik, in particular, is one of the best-written characters in Marvel's Midnight Suns, and her friendship arc with The Hunter--which sees the two bond over their respective struggles with their innate darkness--is my favorite part of the game. Laura Bailey should be applauded for how she brings the troubled Russian mutant to life, and someone needs to make a Magik or New Mutants video game with her in the lead role, ASAP.
In the story it tells, Marvel's Midnight Suns loses a bit of its emotional punch given the uncanny stiffness of the faces of every character model. Regardless of the emotion of a scene, every character's facial expression is only a small departure from their default--eyes slightly widen in surprise or curve down with grief but the rest of the face won't adjust to match, for instance. It's often unsettling and can ruin what would otherwise have been an especially touching or emotional scene. The vocal performances from the incredible cast save the story, though, especially for those who bring to life the members of the Midnight Suns team. Michael Jai White brings the badass attitude and hidden warmth that we expect from Blade, for example, and Lyrica Okano has effortlessly slid back into the role of the magically-gifted and brilliant Nico Minoru, a character she portrays in live-action on the TV show Runaways. Magik may be my favorite character in Marvel's Midnight Suns, but Nico serves as the heart of the game and the soul at the center of the Midnight Suns team, and Okano's performance elevates the emotional prominence of the blood witch. She steals practically every scene she's in--especially the more emotionally fraught moments near the end of the game.
The Avengers and other non-magical heroes' side of the equation feels a bit boring in comparison, and maybe that's an intentional choice to further highlight the mystical and demonic personalities that make up the Midnight Suns' side of the game. Of the lot, the Avengers you recruit early on in the game, like Iron Man and Captain Marvel, have more room in the story to grow and evolve, and their arcs are far more interesting as a result. Most of the Avengers are mid- and late-game additions to the team, however, and that doesn't leave much room for their arcs to develop into anything intriguing enough to pursue.
There are a bunch of nice gameplay incentives for investing in these friendships regardless of their quality. As The Hunter's friendship level with a character reaches specific tiers, you'll unlock passive perks for those characters. Befriending Captain Marvel gifts her the ability to regularly counterattack any enemy who damages her, for instance, which pairs well with the cards that allow her to taunt enemies. And upon reaching a character's maximum friendship level, you unlock the ability to earn a unique legendary card for that hero. You don't need these cards to beat the game--I'd only unlocked five ahead of the final mission--but each one is incredibly powerful, spurring you to take the time to befriend your favorite heroes and unlock more fun goodies to play around with and incorporate into your strategy. For example, Magik's legendary card, Darkchylde, sees her chuckle with demonic glee, taunting every enemy to only attack her, and gifts her temporary invulnerability--an outstanding card for late-game encounters, especially on the harder difficulties. There's been more than a few times when I just needed one more turn to bring my well-orchestrated plan together, and Darkchylde ensured my whole team survived long enough for that to happen.
Without spoiling the specifics, Marvel's Midnight Suns also cleverly rewards the friendships you've put the most time into in a narratively cool way in the final battle. The game tracks who you spend the most time with, creating a final scenario where every hero on the team gets a chance to participate in a multiple-phase-long battle, but your closest allies get the limelight in the epic conclusion--a strong final note for the game to end on.
There's a lot to love about Marvel's Midnight Suns. The combat offers a rewardingly tactical experience, with a deckbuilding card system ensuring that randomness challenges the player, not frustrates them. Plus, the mission variety and cast of diverse playable characters keep combat fresh across dozens of hours. But I most enjoyed the role-playing elements and giving The Hunter a chance to connect with the members of the Midnight Suns and Avengers, forging friendships that resulted in powerful abilities I could take back to the combat side of the game.
Evil West asks a simple question: What if cowboys fought vampires? It's the kind of off-the-wall thinking that gets a Daniel Craig and Harrison Ford movie greenlit, and developer Flying Wild Hog certainly gets a lot of mileage out of its whimsical concept. Set in an alternate version of 1890s America, Evil West is the Wild West at its wildest. A familiar backdrop of swinging-door saloons, rolling tumbleweed, and abandoned gold mines are interwoven with Nikola Tesla-inspired electro-steampunk technology and an assemblage of ravenous bloodsuckers. Evil West shines in the heat of battle when that initial question can be answered, but its strengths are often diminished by the dated design wrapped around them.
The story is a fairly by-the-numbers affair, pitting a vampire-hunting organization against a vampiric enemy force threatening the continental United States. You're strapped into the spur-clad boots of Jesse Rentier, a typically gruff protagonist with very few emotions beyond mild indifference. His occasionally pragmatic response to the absurdity occurring around him is slightly endearing, but it's telling that I had to look up his name before writing it here. The narrative does periodically broach some interesting themes; for instance, one of the Highborn vampires is concerned by humanity's ever-expanding technology and the threat it will pose his fellow sanguisuge--but these threads never really go anywhere. The only one that does revolves around a smarmy and misogynistic government official, yet his comeuppance isn't as satisfying as it deserves to be.
Ultimately, these one-dimensional characters and cringeworthy dialogue replete with strained expletives are easy to ignore. The story is little more than a vehicle for its chaotic combat, propelling you from dusty town to murky swamp in search of new monstrosities to extinguish. The most surprising thing about Evil West is that it's more of a brawler than a shooter. The behind-the-back third-person perspective is reminiscent of the most recent God of War games, letting you get up close and personal as you pummel enemies to a bloody pulp. Jesse is equipped with a metal gauntlet that adds extra heft to each punch, while a charged uppercut can be utilized to launch smaller enemies into the air where you can follow up with a cannonball strike to send them careening into a conveniently placed spike trap or stack of TNT. Jessie's melee strikes feel suitably weighty, and the gratuitous gore that coats each arena in blood and crimson viscera really sells the power fantasy at Evil West's core.
Eventually, the gauntlet is infused with electricity, further expanding upon your repertoire with a voltaic variety of new moves. You can pull enemies towards you or you to them, sending volts coursing through their bones and giving you a short window to lay waste to their helpless husks with a flurry of blows. This has dual uses, too, as you can latch onto distant enemies to zip away from danger or yank one out of a pack to deal damage before their pals arrive. Most of Evil West's challenge comes from the large number of foes it throws at you at one time, so having this kind of mobility is key to survival, alongside the typical dodge move and a kick that can interrupt certain attacks. There's also an electrical ground pound that evaporates multiple enemies at once, and a shockwave attack that stuns multiple enemies, giving you a brief moment of respite or the opportunity to focus on a specific target while the rest are locked in place.
It's not just about melee fisticuffs, either. Jesse is still packing an arsenal of deadly firearms that gradually expands throughout the game. Rather than constantly swapping between weapons on the fly, most of these vampire-killing tools are each assigned a button. Pressing shoot on its own will fire Jesse's six-shooter revolver, while aiming down sights will automatically switch to a rifle for dealing with long-range threats. Another button fires a quick blast from the boomstick shotgun, and there are a few other special weapons that I won't spoil here. There's no ammo to collect; instead, everything works on cooldowns. It's a lot to remember, but combat feels both intuitive and fluid. You can launch an enemy into the air, use the revolver to suspend them with lead--revealing Evil West's Devil May Cry DNA--before zapping over to another enemy and blowing them apart with a close-range burst of buckshot. It's the type of game that would benefit from having a combo meter, just to keep track of how proficient you are at slaughtering everything in front of you, but sadly doesn't have one.
The enemies you come up against are initially a varied bunch, too. From leaping werewolf-like creatures and bulbous humanoids that charge at you before exploding, to bulky shield-bearing foes with leeches for appendages and creatures that burrow underground when they're not chucking boulders at you. Each one presents a unique challenge, but they also have moments of weakness when executing powerful attacks, indicated by a glowing circle and notable chime. Shooting their weak point with your rifle deals massive damage and produces an oftentimes-vital health drop, although the sheer breadth of enemies on screen at any one time does lead to some frustrations when trying to execute techniques such as this. It can be difficult to line up a clear shot when there's so much traffic in the way, and with so much going on, there are some readability issues with knowing when enemies are attacking from blind spots.
Despite these issues, Evil West is at its best when at its most turbulent. It doesn't take long before mini-bosses are reintroduced as regular enemies, becoming another part of the supernatural furniture. You need to utilize everything at your disposal to survive as you're pelted from all sides by an ever-expanding swath of monstrosities, and it's hard not to smile when emerging from another scrap by the skin of your teeth. Unfortunately, this feeling begins to fade by the time the third act rolls around and the well of new enemy types dries up. At this point, the game resorts to throwing the same familiar combinations of creatures at you over and over again. There are only so many times you can defeat the same group of shielded opponents before repetition sets in.
Part of the problem also lies in Evil West's formulaic design. Combat generally takes place within boxed-in arenas denoted by spike traps and TNT. The dull and predictable layout of these areas isn't a significant issue since juggling all of the abilities at your disposal is more than engaging enough, but it's outside of combat where it falters. The main path connecting the game's combat arenas is marked with a glowing silver chain. You can duck into barely-hidden side passages to find money that's used to upgrade weapons, but this constitutes the lightest of exploration. Most of the time, you're simply moving from one shiny object to another, where you'll then watch Jessie climb up a ledge or squeeze through a gap. It occasionally breaks from the norm, putting you in a perilous mine cart ride or impeding your progress with a rudimentary block-pushing puzzle, but these moments are few and far between and are incredibly mundane anyway. There is one level that presents a whole town for you to explore as you hunt down and destroy a few monster nests. It's not an especially large space, but its newfound freedom does make for slightly more interesting navigation than usual.
Technical shortcomings are another nuisance that rear their ugly head. I encountered a few glitches, including a few moments where one sound effect would suddenly overpower the rest and continue playing even after combat had ended. There were also a couple of instances where I found myself stuck in the floor and another where the aiming reticle was knocked off center, meaning I had to aim up and to the left of a target to hit it flush. None of these issues were game-breaking, but that might be due to luck more than anything. I managed to unstick myself from the floor the first time it happened, and the second time was during a boss fight, so the resulting cutscene saved me from being stranded there forever.
In a lot of ways, Evil West feels like a relic of the past. It's the kind of game you could envision playing back in, say, 2010 or perhaps even earlier. This simplicity could've been somewhat refreshing when so many modern games are overly bloated by comparison, but it comes across like a game short on aspiration. Combat is robust, relishes in gore, and constantly delights with its weighty and satisfying action. It stumbles into tedium towards the end, though, both as a result of enemy oversaturation and because it's forced to carry the load, but it's the one aspect that makes Evil West worth playing. The rest of the game is formulaic and mind-numbingly dull, actively diminishing its high points as you saunter from one combat arena to another. I didn't always enjoy my time with Evil West, but I hope a sequel is in the pipeline, if only to see if Flying Wild Hog can expand and improve on its promise.
Although Call of Duty: Warzone 2 introduces the new Al Mazrah map, it integrates both new and iconic locations together to serve as a crucible for the battle royale's big overhaul to a lot of core features and the introduction of Modern Warfare 2's mechanics and movement. The end result is mixed, with some of Warzone 2.0's new additions making the moment-to-moment action feel fresh, while updates to other classic Warzone features feel like a step back for the battle royale title.
Warzone 2's 150-player skirmishes of solo, duo, trio, and quad combatants are played out on the new Al Mazrah map. The fictional desert region in Western Asia does a great job of combining new Modern Warfare 2 multiplayer maps with several nostalgic locations that longtime Call of Duty fans will recognize. Your adventures in Al Mazrah will take you through Rust, Terminal, Highrise, Afghan, and Quarry from the original Modern Warfare 2, and every location--old or new--blends together to create a vibrant and beautiful environment.
In comparison to Modern Warfare's Verdansk map, Al Mazrah feels more diverse, with its mixture of arid desert, large bodies of water, tight cities, and exposed small towns. Water was very limited in the original Warzone because Modern Warfare lacked swimming mechanics, but the sequel brings over all the features and mechanics of Modern Warfare 2, which means that large bodies of water, boats and swimming are now added to the mix, and they're meaningful additions that give you fresh ways to take on fights in Warzone 2. Being able to dive away from a bad gunfight or use it for stealth to flank an opponent in particular adds a new kind of dynamism to engagements.
There's also a much better balance with how the map is designed. Although vast, Verdansk's Stadium and Caldera's Peak weighted the focus to those massive landmarks, making them choke points of sorts. Al Mazrah, however, doesn't have a similar focal point that's hard to traverse around like the aforementioned locations. Instead there's a great mix of environments with buildings for close-quarters action, but also a lot of open sight lines for sniping. Thankfully, the spacious areas don't leave you too vulnerable when passing through them, as there are plenty of large rocks and other things to use as cover, so rotating from point to point doesn't always feel like a struggle.
Vanguard's Caldera wasn't a very popular map, as it launched with tons of visibility issues and bugs. I haven't encountered any Caldera-like texture bugs or demon gun glitches on PS5 in Al Mazrah--the map is vibrant and doesn't seem to suffer from any glaring lighting or visibility issues. While I think it's going to be hard to top the nostalgia of the original Verdansk map, I do think Al Mazrah is a strong and well-balanced map for Warzone's sequel.
One of the major gameplay changes Warzone 2 introduces is a brand-new circle mechanic. Instead of one large circle, there are multiple "micro-circles" appearing at once. There can be up to three of these smaller circles active in any given match, but, eventually, these all merge back together for the final circle.
Although unconventional for the battle royale genre, this approach does add a bit more spice to the mid-game action of Warzone matches. On Verdansk or Caldera, matches could quickly turn into players camping, to wait out further circle collapses. Al Mazrah's micro-circles force players together into condensed locations earlier to offer you more engagements leading up to the final circle collapse. This simple change ensures matches feel engaging and like something is always happening.
While micro-circles are a smart and welcome change, the same can't be said of Warzone 2's revamped Gulag. Sadly, Al Mazrah comes with an overly-complex and much larger Gulag arena, which often puts your fate in someone else's hands. The Gulag is no longer a simple 1v1 arena and, instead, your first death will transport you to a multi-level arena where you fight in 2v2 matches while temporarily paired up with another random player. The original Gulag was an exciting way to give you a second chance, provided you had the skills to win a 1v1 fight. But this new 2v2 twist leaves your fate partially in a random player's hands. Although this Gulag does utilize the game's proximity chat feature, someone like me who sits in party chats with friends or squadmates will find themselves struggling to communicate with a temporary duo partner. And if they--or you--die, the odds of survival become much more grim for the surviving player.
There's also the addition of an AI opponent known as the Jailer,'' who lurks around the arena with a minigun. He'll drop into the fight if the match is taking too long, but defeat him and he'll drop a key that allows you and any other surviving players to exit the Gulag. This means you can choose to avoid him and fight your opponents as intended, or you can choose to fight the Jailer and hope for an alternate escape. However, the Jailer is a bullet sponge and it will likely take at least one other person to help you defeat him, which in turn can actually drag out the length of the matches. The risk versus reward proposition with this mechanic feels unbalanced right now.
Overall, Al Mazrah's home for second chances feels like it takes a few steps backwards. Out of all the changes that this sequel brings, this Gulag is one of the few I really hope gets some revisions.
Al Mazrah also features the addition of the new Stronghold and Black Site loot locations. At the end of the first circle collapse, Strongholds are activated on the map, and there are 77 random locations that the Strongholds can appear. However, there will only ever be three on the map at once. Strongholds are marked on the map as a large castle icon, and the first team to reach one must defuse a bomb there before a timer expires. Otherwise, the objective for the remaining Strongholds is to clear out a specific number of enemies. Completing these will reward you with items like your loadout, killstreaks, gas masks, and such.
You can go for an even greater challenge with Black Sites, which are basically an even more dangerous form of Strongholds. A Black Site is marked on the map with a skull icon and contains considerably tougher armored enemies, including a Juggernaut boss.
It's also an enticing place to conquer for the in-game loot you receive for use in the match itself. Tools like a minigun, durable gas mask, a loadout drop, Advanced UAV, or a permanent UAV to ping enemies in the area surrounding the Black Site can be critical to success. The UAV lasts until the area becomes lost to the circle collapse, which means it can turn this location into a major power point with all the high-end loot and intel it offers.
Strongholds and Black Sites are both a positive addition to Warzone. They are completely optional, but given how contested control of them can be, they serve as great locations for those who prefer a bit more action in their battle royale. These areas are tough to clear out with just the AI enemies, but you'll almost always find other human players there looking to either secure the items they offer or ambush you to capitalize on your efforts. Since their locations are randomized each match, they are a good way to keep players on their toes, too.
Looting feels more natural to the environment in Warzone 2. Cash can be looted from cash registers, while health supplies are found in places like first-aid kits in bathrooms and ambulances. It's much easier to find the item you need because you can look in specific places that make sense, instead of relying on the randomness of supply crates.
Warzone also adds a simplified backpack system that feels like a hybrid of Black Ops 4's Blackout battle royale and the original Warzone. You keep your typical Warzone loadout with a primary weapon, secondary, and tactical and lethal equipment, but now you have a backpack that allows you to carry extra items you couldn't tote around before. You start with a small pack that has six inventory slots, but you can loot or purchase a pack that has more.
At first, having a backpack to stow and pull items from seems like a hassle,because you can often find yourself hiding somewhere rummaging through your pack to drop or add items, feeling vulnerable in the process. However, it's actually really convenient to be able to carry more supplies. It's nice to know you can lug around an extra stack of armor plates for yourself or that one teammate who never loots well enough. However, this approach does pave the way for some potentially annoying situations too, such as having a backpack full of nothing but self-revives or a pack loaded with just UAVs or a specific killstreak. There are opportunities to spam certain items, if you're able to collect enough of them, and this could have a negative impact in late-game scenarios.
Just like Blackout, there is now a rare three-tier armor item. By default, you'll only be able to equip two armor plates and will now need to loot a three-plate vest to equip a third one. This is a bit disappointing because the original Warzone steered away from having the rarity levels of armor to keep everyone on an equal playing field, with the option for anyone to have three plates at any given time. Now, whether or not you can have three plates depends on your luck of looting or purchasing the three-tier upgrade at a Buy Station.
Loadout drops return for Warzone 2, and they can still drop at any time between the second and sixth circle collapses, but they are no longer specifically reserved for a specific player or squad. Anyone can grab any loadout drop that hits the map. On one hand, you can no longer see your specific loadout and gauge how many enemies might be in the area, as before you knew if your loadout drop was stacked near three or four others, you were in greater danger than if your loadout dropped alone. On the other hand, I think it's more important to have the freedom to pick and choose what drop you want to grab, especially when your specific loadout could drop in a location that wouldn't be safe or reachable.
Warzone's Buy Stations now have their own unique collection of items to purchase, as opposed to every station having the exact same items. You can even buy your custom primary weapon at a Buy Station, and while the purchase doesn't include a full loadout with a secondary weapon, lethals, and perks, it's nice to be able to at least get one reliable weapon in your hands.
It's great having a bigger selection of items to purchase with more lethal and tactical items, but be careful of your reliance on these items, as there is a limited quantity of items that can be bought at each station. This means someone could come along with tons of cash and buy all the UAVs or armor before you can get what you need. Even in early game situations I found myself at a Buy Station already sold out of UAVs. This definitely can make late-game scenarios a bit awkward, especially if a previously dead teammate just returned to the fight and wants to get geared up at a Buy Station.
There is also a new user interface for Al Mazrah's Buy Stations, as there are multiple menus to tab through now. Moving away from the more simplistic list of items and prices means it takes longer tabbing through a series of menus with large icons to find what you are looking for. And this is also a crucial time that leaves your character vulnerable on the map. The menus could definitely be streamlined to be more convenient and safer to use.
It's also worth noting that vehicle play is better than ever in Warzone, thanks to the addition of Modern Warfare 2's maneuverability options. It's so easy to squad up and hang on the sides of vehicles for a quick ride (you'll now need to refuel to keep using vehicles). Just like the fun of Ground War matches, you can hop on over to an enemy's ride and cause havoc, or just stand at a distance and toss a drill charge onto the vehicle's exterior. Drivers can be quick to panic when a shock stick or drill charge hits their ride making for some really interesting moments. Overall, vehicle combat feels less daunting and more exciting and situational here with these new ways to counter them.
Warzone 2 adds the brand-new Unhinged mode and completely changes squad dynamics by using the game's new assimilation feature, which allows players to join other squads in a match. This is an interesting trio mode unlike anything we've had in Warzone's past, but Unhinged will mostly cater to you if you're an aggressive player who likes to go for high-kill games and chaotic gunfights. It mostly functions as a standard battle royale, but with the opportunity to make temporary alliances. I didn't have a lot of luck getting paired up with other teams, and it can be awkward getting into a gunfight and realizing you're fighting more than just a trio. On one occasion, my trio ended up in a 3v6 situation, as a gunfight with two players ended with four others rolling up in a vehicle to assist them. There are definitely going to be players who want the chaos of this mode, but it'll be a certain kind of player that truly thrives in that environment and excels.
Getting into some granular changes with Warzone 2, Al Mazrah does undo some of the advancements Caldera made to Warzone's HUD. It was nice being able to see your teammates' killstreaks, armor plates, and the squad's total cash count, but we're back to the simplified squad information with just the ability to see things like how many plates your teammates are wearing and if they have a self-revive available, which could be another nudge to encourage communication between teammates. It also removed Caldera's popular redeploy balloons, which added an extra way to traverse the map.
Pinging is back, and it's always a helpful communication feature to have, but it's really hard to see your or your teammates' pinged locations as the marker is white and easily gets lost on the map. It would be great to have pings be the same color that is assigned to names, or at the very least give the pings a color that stands out. This is such an important tool in general, but especially for players like me who don't like to get chatty on the mic with strangers.
Finally, Warzone 2 also pairs Modern Warfare 2's movement with the same fast time-to-kill in multiplayer. I really enjoy the dialed-back and classic feel to the movement this year, but the quick time-to-kill means there's considerably less time to react to situations. It's so easy to peek your head out of a building or come around a corner and get deleted by an enemy. Warzone's gunfights often felt best after the health cap or armor was slightly raised to give players more of a fighting chance, when there could be a push and pull between combatants.
Thankfully, most of my complaints about Warzone 2 are things that could easily be adjusted in future updates. Al Mazrah comes out of the gate as a balanced and diversified map that feels like a huge step up from Caldera, and dare I say it, even from Verdansk. With the fresh circle mechanics and Strongholds being paired with the solid gunplay, mechanics, and movement from Modern Warfare 2, this could be a really great year for Warzone.
Another major addition for Warzone 2 is DMZ mode, which puts a Call of Duty-style spin on the extraction shooter genre. This mode has a max of 66 players in trios on Warzone's Al Mazrah map, where they're tasked with fighting, looting, and extracting. There are objectives you can complete for XP and cash but ultimately the fun of DMZ is getting to choose how you want to play. You can load into a match with the intent of looting cash and weapons, playing aggressively and seeking out gunfights, or you can try to complete specific objectives for extra XP and rewards.
While DMZ doesn't have the overall tactical feel of other extraction shooters like Escape From Tarkov and Hunt: Showdown, it still has the thrills of a high-risk for high-reward game mode. You keep all the weapons and loot earned from a successful extraction, while also losing everything if you die before extracting. You're also limited to how many items you can carry, so it can quickly become a game of deciding what items to keep in your backpack and what loot should be left behind before extracting.
Al Mazrah is a solid Warzone map, and the design also makes a great diverse landscape for all of DMZ's objectives. At the end of the day, DMZ still feels much like playing objective-based Warzone matches, so don't expect the world to visually change outside of battle royale matches. Apart from the extra junk loot scattered about, this is still the same Al Mazrah with just more AI to fight.
DMZ utilizes many features and mechanics from Warzone 2, including the new Stronghold locations, Buy Stations, AI, and more. AI enemies are found all throughout the map, but they feel more appropriate here in this objective-style mode than they do in battle royale. There are recruit (easy)-level AIs that can be found scattered around in buildings and various locations, but the AI opponents at Strongholds or objective areas are often armored and much more challenging to fight for the high-tier loot. I don't think a battle royale needs AI outside of locations like Strongholds, but it really works well for DMZ, as the various levels of bots keep you engaged in the action from objective to objective, and they help fill out the world a bit more.
The Buy Stations generally look and work the same as they do in Warzone 2, but in DMZ you can sell items you scavenge for extra cash, with the onlycomplaint here being the Buy Station's new interface.
DMZ also utilizes Warzone's new Stronghold feature, but this one is a bit different than the battle royale version, as these require locating keycards to fit the questing nature of DMZ.
While most of DMZ's features and mechanics are from Warzone, one convenient addition that's exclusive to DMZ is an easier way to get your squadmates back into the fight. You can revive eliminated squadmates at their death location at any time in the match, meaning there are no trips to a Buy Station to purchase their return. Dead teammates are marked as a blue health icon, and there is no time limit or any additional steps needed to return teammates to the match.
DMZ also allows players to complete Contracts, Faction missions, and random activities that can happen through the match. Contracts are given by one of three factions in DMZ: Legion, White Lotus, and Black Mous. These faction missions have increasing levels of difficulty and a wide variety, so while a huge grind to complete them all, they're very rewarding and assure you always have plenty to do.
Regardless of whether you choose to complete faction missions or you have another goal planned for your time in DMZ, there will be random occurrences and activities happening during the match, and some of the mode's charm comes from these. For example, you can use drills to open safes to score tons of cash and useful items like UAVs, but it comes at the risk of making a ton of noise and alerting nearby enemies. Or you can trigger a SAM turret, which will shoot down a cargo crate claim, but again, it's at the cost of enemies hearing the action and wanting to fight you for the loot. Activities like these seem simple, but they can quickly turn dicey.
DMZ is definitely an interesting and enjoyable sandbox mode, and it gives you more ways to play, unlock guns, and level up with XP. Activision never marketed this as a Call of Duty take on Escape from Tarkov or any other extraction game, but those comparisons were quickly drawn by the community. However, you don't want to go into this mode with that expectation, as it doesn't quite have the same grittiness and tactical feel of those other games. DMZ plays more like an objective-based Warzone LTM with the option to exfil at any time.
The overall success of this mode depends on what future updates bring. As is, the world feels alive and objectives are mostly fun to complete, but I can see DMZ getting old unless we see seasonal updates add new missions, features, special events, and other layers to the experience and keep DMZ feeling fresh. This is definitely a mode that definitely leaves tons of room for expansion.
My time with both battle royale and DMZ was played on PlayStation 5, and this was a much smoother launch than I experienced with Modern Warfare 2's crashing and freezing. However, other players have reported experiencing crashes, freezes, and stuttering issues.
Warzone 2 comes out swinging with the strongest map yet, as Al Mazrah's design is both visually appealing and well-balanced to encourage more moment-to-moment action and player movement. The sequel tosses in enough new features and changes to make gameplay feel fresh and give a dramatic change to the game's pace to set Warzone 2 apart from the original, and these battle royale matches are still a blast, despite the setbacks to classic features. Packaged with DMZ, which feels like a sandbox hit, free-to-play Call of Duty players have so many more ways to jump into the action and level up this year.
While Pokemon Legends: Arceus dipped its toes into what an open-world Pokemon game could be, Pokemon Scarlet and Violet fully embrace it. This new approach to the tried-and-true Pokemon formula reinvigorates the mainline series and delivers one of the most challenging and rewarding Pokemon adventures to date. Where they really shine, however, is in non-linear progression. Scarlet and Violet make some subtle efforts to guide you to specific locations, but ultimately, how you forge your own path through the vibrant new region of Paldea is what makes it so memorable.
Scarlet and Violet start off like most mainline Pokemon games: You wake up at home, meet your rival, pick one of three starters, and before long you're exploring the world and catching a wide range of monsters. While the tutorial might still feel a bit overbearing for longtime fans, it moves at a brisk pace. Before long, Nemona, your peppy, battle-hungry rival, turns you loose, and you're free to explore a hefty chunk of the map, battle trainers at your discretion, and catch wild Pokemon. It does slow down a bit as it introduces characters and the three main questlines, but soon after that, you are free to explore Paldea in its entirety.
Scarlet and Violet's strength lies in their freedom, and that freedom extends beyond its open world. At the outset you are given three different paths to follow: The Path of Legends, which has you hunt down and defeat abnormally large Pokemon; Operation Starfall, where you deal with this generation's Team Rocket; and the familiar Victory Road, in which you take on eight gym leaders. Unlike previous games, there is no predetermined path through the story. Although trainers and wild Pokemon get tougher the further you get from Mesagoza, Paldea's centermost city, there's nothing outright stopping you from marching up to one of the toughest gym leaders in the game and challenging them to a battle. In fact, Pokemon Scarlet and Violet doesn't even tell you how tough a specific area is until you are actually there.
That lack of transparency might seem odd in a level-based RPG, but it encouraged me to travel off the beaten path and scout out areas a traditional Pokemon game would have gated off. The lack of random encounters also fosters this type of exploration. Pokemon are crawling over every square inch of the map. Pawmi, the adorable new electric-type rodent, travels in packs; Psyducks will saunter through fields, occasionally taking a dip in a nearby stream; and Pichus can often be found napping under shady trees. Like in Arceus, I often found myself chasing new Pokemon I spotted off in the distance until I ended up in an area I wasn't quite ready for. Occasionally, these spontaneous adventures would end with a team wipe, but sometimes I'd walk away with a powerful new Pokemon to join my roster.
In many ways, it feels like Game Freak has finally taken the training wheels off of Pokemon. Throughout most of my adventure I felt like I was constantly punching above my weight against gym leaders, Titan Pokemon, and Team Star bosses. In most cases, my Pokemon were lower levels than the competition, which forced me to think beyond the familiar rock-paper-scissors type matchups. Natures, abilities, and held items--things I rarely consider during a Pokemon game's main story--would often give me enough of an edge to narrowly beat a trainer I would have otherwise lost to.
Terastallizing adds another wrinkle to the challenge. Most key trainers you go toe-to-toe with will Terastallize their final Pokemon, which can alter a Pokemon's typing. Every Pokemon in the Paldea region has a Tera type along with its standard type or types. In most cases, the Tera type matches one of the Pokemon's standard types. However, some Pokemon you come across will have a Tera type different from their standard type. For example, the Grass-type gym leader Brassius uses the Rock-type Pokemon Sudowoodo, but his Sudowoodo has the Grass Tera type. Once this Sudowoodo Terastallizes, the Water- or Grass-type attacks you’d usually use against Sudowoodo won’t be very effective. Most gym leaders use Terastallizing to cover their weaknesses, making the final push a tad more difficult if you aren't prepared or are underleveled.
Of course, you don't have to play Scarlet and Violet the same way I did. You can seek out challenges you are appropriately leveled for and stick to safer areas while you train. This approach is still far more compelling than the traditional Pokemon structure because there are plenty of areas to explore, a wide variety of Pokemon to catch, and a handful of main objectives to complete wherever you choose to go. And even when I was underleveled for some of the tougher points of interest, I rarely felt like my only option was to grind out levels by repeatedly battling wild Pokemon.
Grinding is far less tedious than it used to be thanks to the "Let's Go" mechanic. This allows the first Pokemon in your party to auto-battle wild Pokemon. Auto-battling doesn't net you as much experience as a standard battle, but because auto battles are decided within seconds, you can battle a high volume of Pokemon in a short amount of time.
Auto-battling also ties into TM crafting. Unlike in previous games, once you find or receive a TM, you can craft copies of it at Pokemon Centers. When you knock out a wild Pokemon, it drops crafting materials, and you can earn those crafting materials far more efficiently by auto-battling. However, while auto battles make TM crafting much easier than it would be otherwise, I'd much prefer an option to buy the ones I want. All TMs require components from specific Pokemon, meaning that you have to make an effort to track down that Pokemon and battle it a few times.
The good news is that you can swap out your Pokemon's moves at any time. If you accidentally replaced a move, you can go into a Pokemon's summary menu and relearn it. This is also true for TMs; if you use a TM on a Pokemon, that move will always be available in its move pool. It's a small change, but a welcome one that makes it much easier to experiment with movesets on the fly.
Scarlet and Violet also shake up breeding for the first time since it was introduced in Gold and Silver. Although breeding the perfect Pokemon can still be a time sink, both games have done away with Pokemon Daycares entirely. Now, if you set up a picnic with two compatible Pokemon in your party, they will leave multiple eggs in a basket. Unhygienic, yes, but this saves a ton of time. Eggs collected during a picnic will automatically populate in your boxes, meaning you don't have to frequently reorganize your party to make room for a new egg. Within 15 minutes of idle time in a picnic, I had over a dozen eggs that were automatically transferred into my Pokemon box--a much easier and more efficient method than riding a bike around a daycare and waiting for eggs to appear.
The streamlined breeding process also means it might be easier to grind for shiny Pokemon. While I haven't figured out how to maximize my shiny odds yet, it seems like the overall process could be far less painful than in the past.
It's hard to discuss the competitive scene without touching on battling. Terastallizing will certainly shake things up, but it's difficult to say exactly how at this stage. In theory, a competitive team could cover far more weaknesses thanks to this mechanic. With six Pokemon to a team and potentially three different types per Pokemon--each Pokemon’s two standard types and a third, different Tera type--you could represent all 18 types in one party. My hope is it will result in a far more diverse lineup of viable competitive Pokemon and new, inventive strategies, since typing is such an important part of the team-building process.
As excited as I am to test out these strategies, Scarlet and Violet lack a Battle Tower. There are some exciting post-game challenges, but the absence of a proper Battle Tower makes it very difficult to experiment with different teams and test out new strategies in a low-stakes competitive environment.
The omission of the Battle Tower is likely due to Scarlet and Violet's expanded suite of online features. The big addition to Scarlet and Violet is cooperative play. You and up to three friends can explore Paldea together. You can battle trainers, catch wild Pokemon, and complete story quests while your pals are on the other side of the map. If one player starts up a Tera Raid battle, every other player in the session is notified and can join with the touch of a button. It’s a welcome addition, but it feels superficial. You can’t walk up to another player and interact with them to initiate a trade or battle. Instead, you need to open up the Poke Portal menu and start a trade from there. You also can’t catch Pokemon from the other version, even if you join their game. It seems that cooperative play also opens the floodgates for bugs and glitches. My experience, apart from a few connection issues, has been smooth sailing, but that could change the more I play over the coming weeks. It’s nice seeing your friends run around in your world, but it doesn’t add a whole lot to the experience.
The level of freedom found in Scarlet and Violet comes at a significant cost, though, particularly in their presentation. These games look rough. There's a moment early on where you follow your rival to the top of a lighthouse. Whether intentional or not, it feels like it's supposed to be that moment in every open-world game where you can appreciate the vast expanse of the world before you. Unfortunately, the muddy visuals undercut the moment. Mesagoza looks like a collection of off-white shapes in the distance, the trees look more like green blobs than trees, and the rotating Poke Ball above the Pokemon Center moves at only a few frames per second.
While the Pokemon and key characters are well-rendered, not much else is. Textures are missing, objects in the distance are pixelated and jittery, Pokemon and NPCs are constantly popping in and out due to poor draw distances, and battles on uneven terrain will frequently cause the camera to clip through the ground.
Between Xenoblade Chronicles 3 and Bayonetta 3, the Switch has really shown its age this year, but Pokemon Scarlet and Violet feel as though they are being crushed by the hardware. Pokemon Legends: Arceus had its fair share of visual shortcomings, but not to this extent. Whether you play handheld or docked, Pokemon Scarlet and Violet are difficult on the eyes.
Fortunately, Scarlet and Violet run pretty well. Don't expect a buttery 60 frames per second, but during my time with the games, I haven't experienced any slowdowns or significant dips to the frame rate. Of course, a game like Pokemon doesn't demand rock-solid performance, but it is comforting to see that, despite all of the visual rough patches, performance holds up decently.
While undercooked presentation and visual issues hold the games back, Pokemon Scarlet and Violet are still the best mainline Pokemon games in years. They build off Pokemon Legends: Arceus's open-ended design in some thoughtful and surprising ways, and retain that same level of depth that the mainline series is known for.
When The Dark Pictures Anthology was revealed, its promise was immediately obvious: Take the team that gave us the excellent Until Dawn and have it tackle new horror subgenres at a clip of about once per year. Results have been mixed across the four released games, but on a steady upward trajectory that does not falter with the latest effort. The Devil in Me is Supermassive's latest slasher, and it outshines its predecessors--with a more cohesive plot, best-in-series characters, and a bit of clever gamification injected into the cinematic experience.
The Devil in Me takes us to Chicago, first at the turn of the 1900s to introduce--or, for horror fanatics, more likely remind us of--H.H. Holmes, sometimes dubbed "America's first serial killer." Holmes' "murder castle" was in fact a hotel that he had outfitted to operate as more of a maze of horrific contraptions that could make Jigsaw's works look like Mouse Trap. After a short flashback, the game jumps to the present day and follows an indie film crew making a documentary about Holmes.
To their excitement, they're invited to a scale replica of the killer's ghastly hotel that doubles as something of a museum where they're promised footage and exclusive background information. As it turns out, the curator of the grounds is less than well-hinged himself--who could've guessed?--and what unfolds from there is roughly five or so hours of quality slasher material.
Each game in the series has put a familiar face in its small cast, and for The Devil in Me, it's Jessie Buckley, fresh off the polarizing Alex Garland body-horror film, Men. While that could be called "elevated horror" by those who like the term, The Devil in Me is--like all of The Dark Pictures--a more traditional blood harvest, and it works because Supermassive understands that.
The Devil in Me solves for many issues its predecessors struggled with to varying degrees. Its characters are likeable, which hasn't always been the case, and more important than that, they're given time to breathe early on in the story. By the time their lives are threatened, I found myself caring for them for reasons that went beyond just wanting to pass the game's many quick-time events. The game's demanding decision points carry more weight as a result. It's one thing to unlock a Trophy for keeping everyone alive. It's more interesting and rewarding to persevere because you genuinely wish them well.
The Devil in Me also expects you to keep in mind what you've learned about each character in ways that bring you closer to them. One character's asthma is used to great effect several times and in different ways, always demanding that I reminded myself of her ailment and understood how that might uniquely change any given life-or-death situation for her. There are some really clever kill scenes in this game, and Supermassive continues to make them feel fair. A good horror story probably doesn't see everyone surviving, so when I did lose characters, I was glad to feel as though they were my mistakes, not the result of murky win scenarios.
Another improvement comes in how The Devil in Me unexpectedly takes a step back from the series' normally stringent movie-like qualities. It's still a highly cinematic game where the bulk of the gameplay comes in making choices with little time to think things through and succeeding at blink-and-you'll-miss-it QTEs where failure often means death.
However, there are a few puzzles mixed into this one that give it more traditional gameplay, and there's variety in how you solve problems, like scavenging for items that might save lives at some point in the unknown future. Each character even has one or more unique items, like the audio technician being able to use a portable boom mic and headphones to hear things better, or the camera guy who can photograph crime scenes to--ideally--turn into the cops when he survives.
The series took a half-step away from its movie-like origins with last year's House of Ashes when it moved to a typical over-the-shoulder camera, so this year's installment in the creepy series feels like the other half of that step, embracing more video game-like qualities without losing its filmic intentions. However, it's starting to show its age. Given the visual feat that is The Quarry, Supermassive's 2K-published horror game from earlier this year, The Devil in Me is certainly less stunning to look at, so it's hard to go back to The Dark Pictures' less-detailed world. That's not to say it looks bad, but playing on PS5, only the option of a higher framerate gave me the impression that the game is current-gen. For its second season, The Dark Pictures would benefit from a technical upgrade.
This is true not just in how it looks, but how it plays. Simple actions like opening a drawer using a lockpicking minigame newly seen in this latest sequel are almost comically slow in how they break down actions into a series of smaller movements. Opening a drawer, for example, involves grabbing the drawer's handle, then pulling on it to find that it's locked, then slowly equipping the unlocking device, using it, then returning to a free hand, then pulling on the drawer again. It makes me feel like a laundry-folding robot carrying out blatantly segmented directions.
Sometimes hesitating is necessary, like when your best method to survive is actually inaction, but these sluggish interactions are all too common. Supermassive wants to make its characters feel weighty, and I think that's the right call because with it comes vulnerability, but there's a middle ground that can salvage that necessary vulnerability while still making the game feel better to control overall.
While this sequel doesn't fix those long-standing issues, it does tell a better overall story than those that came before it. I've enjoyed each of these games so far, but the Devil in Me certainly has the best lore of the series. As usual, you can miss a lot of that if you don't tread down peripheral pathways before mainlining it to the next killing stage, but players who do find themselves picking up every frantic note, police report, or cryptic recorder they can find will come away with an added layer to the story that elevates it beyond a simple slasher. As a big horror fan, I love that.
With so many branching pathways, I've found that some games like this, even within this series, can feel disjointed by the end, like the game's modular parts aren't always sufficiently versatile, and your ending can feel like it comes out of nowhere as a result. While I haven't gone down every path, I was happy to find that this wasn't at all the case in my time with the game. A few lingering threads I left behind feel more like lore I overlooked, whereas in past games, it was entire character arcs or motivations that often had me scratching my head.
The Devil in Me is the best game in the series. Supermassive delivered a great script this time out, and while it's more straightforward than some others that tend to lean on a mid-game twist, it's not without surprises. I strongly feel the second season of The Dark Pictures both needs and deserves a technical overhaul, and I think if that can align with another story as fun as this one, The Dark Pictures will have finally achieved its full potential. For now, it's still climbing toward that peak, but it's going in the right direction.
And, unfortunately, the gameplay in Spider-Man: Miles Morales (which I will hereafter refer to as SM:MM because I'll be damned if I try to write a full review that cleverly tries to make a distinction between Spider-Man/Miles Morales the game and Spider-Man/Miles Morales the character; I won't do it) never quite manages to break free of that feeling. That isn't necessarily a bad thing--I like 2018's Spider-Man for its engaging combat loop, so I'm glad SM:MM emulates it. It's just that sometimes SM:MM can feel too similar to what's come before, which can get in the way of establishing Miles as his own brand of superhero. Regardless, the familiar trappings of SM:MM are used to tell an entirely fresh story with a few brand-new faces. And it's that narrative and those characters that manage to distinguish SM:MM as an open-world action game that's compelling to play.
Like its predecessor, SM:MM throws you right into the action. After a short intro, Miles suits up and joins Peter Parker in escorting a convoy transporting supervillain Rhino, who's being taken back to prison after his escape in the previous game. Things don't go according to plan, but Miles manages to step up in a big way during the mission, proving to his mentor that he's capable of watching over New York City on his own for two weeks while Peter goes on a vacation with Mary Jane.
I love this opening. There's a frantic pace to it; the game tosses you straight into its combat and traversal mechanics, immediately having you fight some escaped convicts before sticking you to the back of a rampaging Rhino. You need to steer the hulking brute around obstacles and pedestrians in a crowded shopping mall, and then you're flung into the open world to chase after the villain through the twists and turns of the city streets. And that's just the first 10 minutes. So even though the first few mechanics you learn are fairly straightforward--despite his inexperience, Miles controls just like Peter in the first game so web-slinging is practically effortless and combat isn't much harder--the sheer whiplash of needing to constantly adapt to different types of gameplay in such a short time puts you right into Miles' headspace. You can complete the level in one go because it's the prologue and it's easy, but it feels like Miles is just getting by and that Peter is doing most of the work anyway (he even covers for you when you make a mistake, like missing a quick-time prompt).
Tinkerin' With The Narrative
In moderation, I think this would have been a great way to convey to the player how stressful Miles' newfound responsibility is. But SM:MM never lets up. It's high-key set piece after high-key set piece for most of its 11-hour runtime, with very little time reserved for quiet moments of reflection. Miles acquires a series of gadgets and abilities at a fairly steady pace as well (including his trademark venom sting and camouflage superpowers, which I'll get to in a bit), several of which emerge in unsatisfying ways as seemingly random bouts of deus ex machina. At times, it can feel like SM:MM is almost rushing towards its conclusion, desperate to deliver on the promise that Miles ends the game as a seasoned Spider-Man without really slowing down to show you how he manages to earn the respect and appreciation of a city that already knows and loves a Spider-Man.
The main plot of SM:MM sees Miles simultaneously try to garner the favor of New York by fulfilling requests left by random New Yorkers on a smartphone app and stop the escalating conflict between Roxxon Energy Corporation and a gang called the Underground. Roxxon is buying up bits and pieces of Harlem to make room for reactors that will run on a brand-new energy source. Meanwhile, the Underground want to make a name for themselves, and thanks to the advanced arsenal of weapons they now have thanks to their new boss, the Tinkerer, the gang is setting its sights on destroying the prominent Roxxon.
The story is your standard superhero affair with betrayals and ramifications that are familiar to the genre but still exciting to watch unfold. If anything, it's the characters who manage to keep SM:MM from feeling formulaic--the Tinkerer, especially. It's difficult to hype up how good of a villain they are without spoiling the best moments from SM:MM's campaign outright. When pressed, I've just been telling people that SM:MM does for the Tinkerer what the movie Spider-Man: Homecoming does for the Vulture. The game humanizes a classic but somewhat bland member of Spidey's rogues' gallery and gives them a compelling reason for why they turned to a life of crime, reinventing the character into more of a tragic figure. In a certain light, the Tinkerer's actions could be construed to be almost heroic (in an anti-hero sort of way), allowing the character to exist as a dark foil to Miles' Spider-Man. And at the center of that comparison between Miles and the Tinkerer is the two's shared life experiences.
Prior to Miles' regular interactions with the Tinkerer, his evolution as a hero is primarily seen through his closest friends and confidants. Miles is surrounded by heroes, so a small but significant part of SM:MM is his musings about who he should be taking inspiration from. His friends serve as two sides of a coin, playing the roles of angels and devils in the debates that will define Miles. Ganke, for example, knows that Miles is Spider-Man and understands what Miles wants to get out of the role, but can't really empathize with Miles' Black or Puerto Rican heritage. Other friends and allies, however, more closely relate to Miles' cultural identities and struggles but don't understand the extent of his secret identity. Miles regularly talks to key members of the supporting cast throughout the first half of the campaign, and you get to see him coming to an understanding of what type of hero he wants to be through these conversations. It's awesome, and so when he dons his traditional black-and-red suit and emerges as a brand-new Spider-Man for the first time, one similar to but also altogether different from Peter Parker's Spider-Man, you can understand how he's grown to this point. You got to see it; you got to live through that internal turmoil with him.
A Different Side To The Same New York
The child of a Black father and Puerto Rican mother, Miles is a wonderful mixture of cultures and languages. His building is adorned with the Puerto Rican flag, his family has an old collection of jazz and R&B vinyl records, and he seamlessly transitions between standard English, African-American Vernacular English, Spanish, and American Sign Language based on who he's talking to (occasionally even mixing together one or two of them). The way he leaps off of rooftops and flips backwards to face the camera before falling into a headfirst dive is just full of the exaggerated swagger of a Black teen--it gives me goosebumps every time he does it, especially as the music begins to swell.
Speaking of, we've got to talk about the music in SM:MM. When Miles begins swinging, the orchestral score grows louder, but there's a nice synthetic hip-hop undercurrent to the whole thing. The music isn't as bombastic as that heard in 2018's Spider-Man. It instead crackles with a soft percussion--it reverberates in your ears with a steady crescendo that stops just short of overtaking the sounds of the city. It allows Miles (and to an extent, the player) to remain clued into New York even while soaring through the air at breakneck speeds to the sound of bomb-ass beats. I also need to shoutout SM:MM's use of Jaden Smith and Kid Cudi's "On My Own," which is used perfectly in an introductory scene--it fits as well into the game as Post Malone and Swae Lee's "Sunflower" did in the movie Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse.
Unfortunately, SM:MM can't slow down enough for you to really immerse yourself in the music that plays in the open world. If Ganke isn't calling to direct Miles to his next objective, then it's Miles' mother checking in or his uncle offering some advice or J. Jonah Jameson ranting about the new web-swinging menace or someone else. The game is constantly cutting off the music to deliver a new waypoint for you to follow or a conversation to listen to before the new waypoint appears. And thankfully, you can turn some of these voices off, but many are tied to the story--so you'll have someone almost always yapping in your ear. I'm enjoying traversal in the game far more now having finished the campaign, as I can just appreciate the rhythmic beat of the music while marveling at the beautiful murals, busy parks, and other aspects of New York culture that are on display in Harlem.
The game does look better on PS5, but the difference isn't drastic enough to fundamentally change the experience.
Speaking of, outside of Harlem (which has gotten a little bit of extra aesthetic love in order to better capture the culture of the area), SM:MM's New York is largely the same as the one in 2018's Spider-Man; the city is now just covered in snow and holiday decorations. I played the game on PS4 Pro and found SM:MM's graphics to look a lot like 2018's Spider-Man. A few of my coworkers have played SM:MM on PS5 and report that the game does look better on next-gen, but the difference isn't drastic enough to fundamentally change the experience--the game is sharper, reflections of characters in windows are far more clear, and load times are faster. The technical features provided by PS5's DualSense controller don't add anything essential to the gameplay either; there's trigger resistance to represent the effort Miles need to put in to shooting webs when soaring through the air, and subtle vibrations in the controller for whenever a phone vibrates or a train moves along a track. They're cool bells and whistles, but you're getting a similar experience whether you're playing on PS4 or PS5. You can read our PS5 review for a more detailed breakdown.
Regardless of where you're playing, SM:MM's buildings are a lot more stunning while in motion--really, the whole city is. Taking a break from web-swinging or fighting crime to walk on the city streets and high-five pedestrians reveals somewhat drab NPC designs and no meaningful way for Miles to interact with his fellow citizens. Given that one of Miles' biggest motivations in the game is to connect with the people of his city, it's disappointing that there's no way to do so--the only choice you have when trying to help the people of New York is how exactly you want to beat up the problem they're facing.
There are a few side missions that aren't about Miles fighting crime, though; these are found in the new app request side activities. Between chapters, Miles typically muses aloud that he should take a moment to respond to requests for help on his app. And it's in these bite-sized stories that you get to see Miles interacting with his community, albeit with shallow, forgettable characters save for a man who needs you to rescue his cat and a girl who's deaf and might have a crush on Miles. And honestly, I think it says a lot that I can only remember the cat's name, and that's only because it's "Spider-Man," which is very memorable. But you have to purposely keep selecting these missions, otherwise Ganke calls after you complete one to let you know where to go next for the main campaign. Sometimes he doesn't even wait that long. He's called me on the way to responding to app requests to tell me about the very important story thing that Miles needs to do next. So you can either disrupt the overall flow of the main campaign to do side activities or keep up with the pace of the main story, which largely means rushing forward from chapter to chapter. It's a rather annoying pacing issue--I felt like Miles wouldn't do things like take a picture with a fan, track down lost toys, or break icicles off a crane when he has a lead on the Tinkerer.
Brand-New Moves, Same Ol' Swing
And so the difficulty of SM:MM remains fairly flat throughout the campaign, only spiking for boss battles--one of which I do really like because it forces you to constantly switch up between Miles' normal and venom attacks to chip away at the boss and use web-swinging or Miles' camouflage to safely maneuver around the small arena. But you can't just spam Miles' abilities because venom strikes, gadgets, and camouflage are necessary for controlling the crowd of normal enemies that are also present. It's such a cool battle of attrition and crowd management, one that encourages you to embrace Miles' powers and fight in a wholly different way to most of the campaign. The whole fight is very representative of how SM:MM could have benefited from more combat encounters that incorporate Miles' unique powers and highlight how his fighting style is different from Peter's.
Home Is Where Harlem Is
Like I said at the top of this review, SM:MM feels a lot like a missing chapter to 2018's Spider-Man. The gameplay is so similar, and the environment is largely the same. It's in the characters (especially Ganke and the Tinkerer) and the story that it tells that SM:MM manages to break free of what's been done already to deliver something that you'll want to see all the way through.
It's a bit of a bummer to see Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales trip up at certain points, but thankfully, that doesn't happen often. The game wastes little time jumping you into Miles' story and rarely lets up on the brakes, packing the young wall crawler's first solo outing with more super powers and radio chatter than the game needs. And yet, despite its frantic pace, Spider-Man: Miles Morales is a compelling open-world action game that helps highlight why Miles is so special: his culture. It's Miles' unique differences and earnest attempts at figuring out how to protect his community that make him into such a wonderful hero, not the mask he wears and superpowers he wields.
Miles On PC
Like Spider-Man Remastered before it, Nixxes has delivered a PC port for Spider-Man: Miles Morales that improves upon the visual features offered by the console version, allowing you to put your additional processing power to use while also supporting a wide range of PC-specific features that cater to all brands of GPUs out there. It also shows off some of the work Nixxes has done since the release of Spider-Man Remastered just a few months ago, with performance and hardware utilization noticeably better but not without room for further improvement.
Spider-Man Miles Morales supports all of the features that Remastered does, including ultrawide displays, ray tracing, Nvidia DLSS (Deep Learning Super Sampling), AMD FSR (FidelityFX Super Resolution), and Insomniac's own upscaler, ITGI. New to Remastered, and by extension Miles Morales, is support for DLSS 3, which requires a new RTX 4090 or 4080 from Nvidia to make use of its AI-generated frame insertion. This creates a completely new frame after every traditionally rendered one to help boost framerates, with several caveats (strange visual abnormalities during repeated animations or poorly reconstructed frames, for example)that numerous deep dives have explored in exhaustive detail. It's not the star of the port given its reliance on cutting-edge new hardware, but it's good to see support here at launch.
Ray tracing has previously been confined to reflections for Spider-Man: Miles Morales, but the PC version extends that to ray traced shadows. The difference this makes to overall image quality is far more subtle than that of reflections, but there's no question that it's an improvement when you stop to observe shadows being cast during a golden sunset, or along a snow-slick street bathed in lightning at night. There's a performance cost associated with having them on, so it should be one of the first things you toggle off if you're looking for more frames, but it's a nice addition for those with the hardware to support it to further accentuate this game's eye-catching visual details.
In many ways, Miles Morales acts as a much better visual showpiece on PC than the previous Remastered entry does. Its winter setting allows for more wet puddles to populate streets and rooftops, bouncing light in all directions with blissful detail if you're dialing up the settings. The neon purple attacks of enemies and the way they reflect off the glossy coating of Miles' suit looks better here than it does on PS5 and leaves a greater lasting impression than the majority of the visual splendor of Peter's own adventure.
Nixxes has done a lot of work since the original release to alleviate some of the issues with CPU bottlenecks, and if you haven't checked in since that launch, you might be surprised to see how far it's come. Swinging through the streets of New York, this time with ray-traced shadows added to the mix of the high preset and using the same hardware, I was able to maintain a frame rate consistently between 60-70fps. That's still relatively low for a game running at 1440p on an RTX 3080 Ti, but it's around the same average that I achieved in Spider-Man: Remastered just a few months ago without the additional strain of ray-traced shadows. With this setting off, performance was noticeably higher, while utilizing DLSS at its Balanced preset allowed me to enjoy the action without a dip below 80fps. These were scenarios around the game's open world, with indoor sections exhibiting the same jumps in performance as last time.
This means that Spider-Man: Miles Morales is still quite CPU-limited when you're swinging around the city, but it's a noticeable improvement all around nonetheless. With that said, GPU and CPU utilization were still lower than desired, with the CPU (the same AMD 5600X as before) quickly standing out as the limiting factor. It's an improvement, but Miles Morales would benefit from more work here to run better with slower CPUs. In spite of that, Spider-Man: Miles Morales is as fantastic a port as Spider-Man: Remastered while also benefiting from the additional time Nixxes has had since the original release. If you've been waiting to play this since its debut nearly two years ago, there's no reason to wait any longer.
Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales is featured as one of the best PS5 games.
Despite aliens existing as one of the most prevalent enemies in video games, seldom do we get to experience them from the vantage point of ants beneath their shoes we may well be. So often, we're tasked with shooting aliens in space battles or gunning them down on the back of military vehicles, and the lack of a proper alien invasion story in the vein of Signs or Invasion of the Body Snatchers has been a personal annoyance for years. For the most part, Somerville finally gives us such a game, but that uncommon setup I've so looked forward to is ultimately hampered by both story and gameplay decisions that keep it from feeling impactful.
Created in part by a former Playdead (Inside, Limbo) developer at a new studio called Jumpship, Somerville feels similar to those milestone puzzle-adventures. The color palette favors darkness, the story unfolds without dialogue of any sort, and you'll explore by moving through a world full of threats, solving puzzles to overcome each obstacle and outrun unassailable enemies.
In Somerville, you play the patriarch of a family of four which also includes your wife, baby, and dog. It doesn't take long at all for the story to pick up; within minutes, you go from passing out on the couch on a typical evening at home to scrambling for shelter as otherworldly pillars rain down from the sky. Separated from your wife and child, the nameless father and his four-legged friend embark on a quest to reunite with the others.
Early on, Somerville feels exactly like what I was hoping for. A filmic opening credits sequence trails the family's car from high above to the tune of emotive music like the first few minutes of The Shining. Going 0 to 60 in a heartbeat feels like the right way to introduce the game's alien threat, too. The characters have no comprehension of what's going on, so neither do you. And the driving force behind the story--reunion and safety--are easy to latch onto. It starts strong.
But one of Somerville's early differences from games like it quickly begins to leave it trailing behind predecessors. The game looks like a 2D (or 2.5) adventure, but there's often a lot more space to explore on the Z axis than you might expect, allowing you to move toward or away from the screen. This, in tandem with sometimes unclear pathway design, creates routine issues with depth perception, causing you to bump up against stuff often.
In quieter moments, this just means fumbling around a bit inelegantly, but during chase sequences, it often means game over, as such scenes are often designed with the idea that you perfectly squeeze through, over, under, or around each obstacle.
A low number of puzzles feels detrimental at times. At four hours long, I was surprised to find the last hour or so is largely void of puzzles. Much of the game is built around a special ability with which the protagonist is imbued--a way of manipulating the alien matter that corrupts the world, allowing him to either liquify or solidify the earth around him. The possibilities for such a mechanic feel obvious as soon as you're given this magic touch, but the game oddly ignores using it in any clever ways for large portions of the game. When it is used, no one puzzle or section of puzzles does much to elevate the mechanic's earliest usages.
It's oddly structured in other ways too, though more successfully. The extraterrestrials are varied in shape, size, and function, and as a result they feel collectively unfathomable to human eyes. The game does well to make them feel intimidating by way of their unknowable intentions. While single beings may clearly telegraph they mean you harm, understanding their greater purpose feels like trying to teach a spider to read. It's in this way that Somerville best delivers as an alien game unlike virtually any other in video games--where it aligns with Chiang's Story of Your Life more than Insomniac's Resistance.
The game also uses the god-like presence of these beings to mess with spacetime and perception in clever ways I ought not spoil here. Suffice it to say, sometimes what you think you're seeing is not the truth of the matter, and lifting the veil to rediscover reality is a choice that is yours to make more than once in the game.
These story beats, uniquely structured and difficult to talk around, are Somerville's greatest attributes. On the contrary, I was surprised to find the more intimate family drama doesn't land as well. Being torn apart from his loved ones early on, the ensuing journey should have been a gutpunch, but reunion winds up taking a backseat to a bigger picture that feels harder to relate to, telling a more familiar story of fomented resistance. At least to that end, the game offers a few sneaky alternate endings--I found three and I suspect there may be more.
Tucking away secrets that change your fate provides a satisfying, if unwieldy, layer of player agency in a story where the threat is virtually indecipherable as a species. You can't understand their intentions, and thus, you almost stumble into better or worse endings for yourself. Thankfully, the game allows you to easily see alternate versions of events, which collectively help paint a more vibrant picture of what Somerville is trying to say, even as that message feels only partially delivered by the game's true endpoint.
Short games aren't inherently flawed, but Somerville needed a bit more time to convey its major themes. The scope of the alien invasion story looks at both macro and micro relationships among people in ways that only end up scratching the surface of saying something interesting, and though it builds up an interesting universe that leaves me with questions regarding its alien overlords, I was surprised to find in myself an indifference toward finding the truth that's out there.
Tactics Ogre is a landmark game in the evolution of the strategy-RPG genre, yet it's never quite received the appreciation it deserves outside of Japan. Part of this has to do with the long shadow cast by its directly-inspired and much-beloved younger sibling, Final Fantasy Tactics. Despite receiving an incredible remake in 2011, PSP exclusivity once again limited the audience for Tactics Ogre. Now, with the release of the HD and massively revamped Tactics Ogre Reborn on every platform under the sun, Square Enix is taking steps to correct a long-standing injustice--though some quibbles with presentation and gameplay changes keep this from being the definitive version of the all-time classic.
Our story follows young Denam and his sister Catiua, two siblings of the Walister clan. The Walister have suffered under the oppression of the ruling Galgastani for years, and a resistance movement has begun to form among them. What begins as a plan to avenge the death of the siblings' father snowballs into a mission to rescue Duke Ronwey, leader of the resistance. But as Denam becomes part of the growing resistance force, he discovers the lengths that Duke Ronwey will go to advance his cause, forcing him to make very difficult choices. As the struggle expands to involve neighboring states, Denam will need to find his own way to put an end to the conflict.
If you're familiar with previous works by director and writer Yasumi Matsuno (Final Fantasy Tactics, Vagrant Story, Final Fantasy XII), you'll find similar themes here: intertwining politics, moral quandaries, class struggles, and idealism gone awry. Depending on the choices you make (including some absolutely gut-wrenching, life-or-death decisions) the story's path--as well as which special characters you can recruit--will change dramatically. There are plenty of twists and surprises to experience, enhanced by a combination of a superb English script from famed localizer Alexander O. Smith and the addition of voice acting for cutscenes. The World Tarot system from the PSP remake also returns, which acts as an enhanced New Game+: Upon completing the game, you can go back to previous points in the story, exploring different outcomes and routes while keeping your current character roster.
Gameplay is similar to other grid-based strategy-RPGs: You cultivate and deploy a carefully selected mini-army to battle against a CPU-controlled squad by moving around the battlefield and using attacks and skills to gain the upper hand. When each character gets their turn and how far they can move is determined by a multitude of factors, including stats, gear, buffs/debuffs, and how many actions they took in their previous turn. The effectiveness of attacks and skills is similarly affected by a wide degree of variables: stats, elemental affiliations, attack type, and even which direction you are approaching from are just a few of the things that factor into crucial decision-making.
What makes combat fun is the sheer amount of options at your disposal and variables to consider--do you go in swords swinging with your big bruisers to draw the enemy towards you, or hold back until your MP resources build up first? Do you go for sustained smaller attacks on a target, or try to weaken your foe with status ailments before going in for a massive killing blow? Should you kill the monsters you encounter to obtain rare items, or attempt to train them to use their unique powers in battles moving forward? Figuring out a way to approach each fight and executing your plans (or at least attempting to) is tremendously rewarding. And if mistakes are made, there's a way to take back particularly boneheaded moves: the Chariot Tarot is an optional feature you can activate to "rewind" turns in battle and try a different course of action.
But all the rewinds in the world aren't going to save you if you don't have a strong army to begin with, and building up a platoon of heroes to your liking is one of the most engaging and rewarding parts of Tactics Ogre. There are a myriad of classes to discover throughout the game--from genre staples like mages, knights, and archers to fear-inspiring Terror Knights, undead-controlling Necromancers, and the projectile-specialist Fusiliers. Each class has specific skills they can learn and equip, but only four can be assigned per character. You're not stuck with a specific weapon type in each class, either: all classes have at least a few different weapons they can equip, and specific classes can utilize magic spells, too. This flexibility means it's possible to have multiple units of the same class with wildly different builds--for example, you could make a ninja unit focused on a combination of ranged bow attacks and ninjutsu magic alongside another ninja character built for dealing debilitating damage with dual-wield melee attacks that inflict status ailments. Exploring the classes and playing around with different configurations is tremendously fun, and it's easy to spend hours micromanaging your virtual soldiers.
Adding to this experience are some revamped gameplay mechanics that are brand-new to Tactics Ogre Reborn. The systems for learning and utilizing skills have been streamlined tremendously, making it easy to keep track of what characters have learned and equipped. New skills have been added, such as a skill for some classes that triggers a follow-up pincer attack when an opposing unit is surrounded and attacked. In addition, instead of the confusing and cumbersome class-based leveling system of the PSP remake, characters now gain levels through a more typical individual EXP system where each unit gains levels through EXP that carries over even after changing classes. Another new addition, charms, are single-use items that can boost characters' stats, raise their levels, and change their elemental affiliations, giving you even more control over their customization. And if you want to build up the levels and skills of a few units, you can choose to enter training battles where the risk of permadeath is mitigated. That also means no more random battles when roaming around the map.
There are copious other changes and quality-of-life upgrades to Tactics Ogre Reborn: a trajectory viewer to see exactly where ranged attacks will hit, the elimination of item-crafting failure, a revival system more akin to Final Fantasy Tactics with a countdown timer on fallen units until permadeath, and being able to scout the battlefield before combat. Most of these alterations are for the better, but there are a few that are debatably worse. The addition of randomly appearing buff and debuff cards to collect (or try to force upon foes) on the battlefield is a neat idea, though it can wind up making battles more chaotic (not to mention messy when they’ve sprouted all over the arena). Skills and Finishing Moves that used a resource called TP in the PSP game now all use MP instead. This makes resource management slightly easier, but also makes managing MP resources much more challenging for certain classes like the healing/tank hybrid Knights.
Finally, one of the biggest changes is the introduction of a party-wide level cap that only increases once you've cleared particular parts of the story. This is done to prevent you from over-leveling to beat story battles. While it helps keep the challenge level consistent, it prevents a player that is having trouble in a particular encounter from grinding to help overcome it, which they should have the freedom to do if they please.
The other major issue is the visuals. While the high-resolution character portrait artwork looks fantastic, the upscaling of the sprite art leaves something to be desired as it looks like a particularly bad filter has been applied. I got used to it after a while, but compared to amazing HD-2D reworkings like Live A Live–another Square Enix title–Tactics Ogre Reborn feels plain by comparison. Certain music selections have been redone, as well, but the emphasis on heavy orchestration takes away some of the intense, melodic qualities of the previous renditions. The ability to switch to more authentic, pixely graphics or use previous soundtracks would have been a great addition, but alas.
Tactics Ogre's intense tactical combat, in-depth character-building, and excellent storytelling makes it a must-play for strategy-RPG fans. It's wonderful that this game is much more widely available now, and most of the updates and upgrades make the package even better. While some might balk at the $50 price tag for a remake with an iffy graphical and sound overhaul, the superb strategy gameplay and branching story paths will keep your attention for a very long time. While it might not be a perfect remake, it's a damn good one.
In Pentiment, you play as artist Andreas Maler, who is attempting to finish up his masterpiece while working for the Kiersau Abbey, which overlooks the Bavarian town of Tassing. A visiting baron draws the ire of both the farmers and craftspeople in town, as well as the Christian nuns and brothers of the abbey, but no one is prepared when he winds up dead. With Andreas' mentor--a man too old and feeble to have possibly overpowered the baron--pinned for the crime, the young illustrator vows to conduct his own private investigation in hopes of bringing the true culprit to justice. In doing so, Andreas is drawn into a strange conspiracy of cryptic notes and unspoken secrets, and his actions shape both Tassing and Kiersau Abbey in a story that spans a quarter of a century.
Your actions have consequences in Pentiment. Most conversations can branch in a number of ways depending on the choices you pick, and Andreas' relationship with those around him is further shaped by the resulting consequences. Oftentimes, these consequences are felt immediately--a worried wife catching you in a lie might not offer information on her husband, for example--but there are quite a few with much longer-reaching effects. During the second act of Pentiment, the game kept telling me that choice after choice I was making would "be remembered," but it wasn't until the final minutes of the act that the results of my actions were revealed. And in a twist of fate, my decision to repeatedly be nice to someone in the hours up to that point meant that they wouldn't abandon me during a dangerous situation.
Pentiment often delights in these shocking outcomes in the latter half of its story, making for a far more exciting Act II and III in comparison to the rather meandering start. It certainly doesn't help that the moment-to-moment gameplay isn't all that exciting. Exploration is tediously slow, as fulfilling quests for folks can see you having to run from one side of Tassing to the other. Though Pentiment is depicted in a beautiful artistic style meant to emulate illuminated manuscripts and printed books of 16th-century Europe, the design of the world only changes between acts, and even then it's not by a substantial degree. Until the story starts getting interesting, there's not much to the experience beyond walking around and meeting people.
Talking with characters to learn more about Tassing and the case you're trying to solve is a lot of fun, but the game frustratingly limits how much of that you can do. Each day is divided into sections, with slots of time reserved for working, praying, and eating. Longer conversations will take up all of your available time for any one slot, meaning you're unable to meet and talk to every single person over the course of your investigation.
All Pentiment entails, however, is meeting with and getting to know the interesting characters or pursuing leads for the case at hand. That's the extent to which you interact with Pentiment's world. Putting a limit on how much of that you can do isn't inherently bad on its own--lots of visual novels and RPGs utilize something similar so players are encouraged to best use their time and get to know the characters they like more. But within the scope of a mystery, too much of a limitation gets in the way of the fun. You just can't dig enough into the people of Tassing within the confines allowed, leaving a lot of stones unturned when it's time to present your evidence.
In theory, this system seems designed to push you to commit to one suspect, maybe two, and put any and all time you have into figuring out their motive. But many lines of investigation in Pentiment lead to clear realizations that the person you thought might be the killer is, in all likelihood, innocent, and all the time you spent considering them a suspect was for nothing. So if you commit to probing the wrong person, you're left with no time to scrutinize someone else upon realizing your mistake. But if you spread your investigation too thin, you might not have enough time to finish looking into anyone in depth. A system like this helps differentiate one playthrough from another, giving repeat playthroughs some variety, but it can make your first time through the game feel like you're being needlessly taxed for wanting to conduct a detailed examination of every available suspect. I'm also not a fan of the fact that grabbing dinner with someone can eat into your limited time as well, punishing you for wanting to learn more about the town and the characters unrelated to the case at hand.
There's some fun to be had in how you approach situations at least. Early on, you construct Andreas' backstory--deciding what he studied in school, for instance. I opted for a man who had spent a bunch of time in Italy, had a knack for public speaking, the law, and the forbidden occult, and wanted to jump into the skirt of every woman in Tassing. And it was fun to have extra dialogue options that allowed me to flirt or talk about getting drunk in every other conversation or tell spooky ghost stories to the kids in town. And I used my knowledge of the law to aid the peasants in their troubles whenever I could. Pentiment goes a long way in rewarding the ways you shape Andreas, especially in how it allows you to get a better idea as to how people are feeling about what's going on in the world. I just wish the game had allowed me the space to interact this way with everyone instead of cutting me off from all but the few I had time to deeply engage with.
As it takes place in the early 16th century, Pentiment sees you exploring a Bavaria that is undergoing a great religious and social transformation--Martin Luther is becoming a well-known name in Christian circles across Germany at this time, and more and more peasants are being taught to read. For a town like Tassing, built upon the ruins of Roman cities and with a history of druidic paganism, this has resulted in a great variety of people with different beliefs and morals, all striving to live together in relative peace.
Pentiment makes this history quite approachable, even if you know very little about what was going on in Germany and the rest of Europe in the 1500s. At the push of a button, the game will pull back and detail any significant person, place, religion, or event mentioned in the conversation at hand, scribbled out like a student's notes in the margins of a reference book. It's never enough to bore, but just enough to give you an idea as to why something or someone is relevant. Thankfully, the system extends to the characters who live in Tassing and Kiersau Abbey as well--even featuring pictures of what they look like--so you can always know who folks are talking about.
And you'll want to know who's who. The characters and their stories are the best part of Pentiment, whether it's watching them grow older and mature over the course of 25 years or witnessing how the ever-changing perception of religion and economic class influences the dynamics of a town. There's a lot of intriguing history to learn and witness within Pentiment's story, especially as the game delves into the events that--though memorable in hindsight--don't seem like anything more than a tragic series of misfortune at the moment.
This, of course, lines up because there's an inherent tragedy to history, which is basically just a collection of stories, legends, and folklore about the past that those in the present do all they can to preserve as some semblance of truth, so as to inform the future and encourage new generations to be better. History is tragic because so much of it is pure malarkey--much of history is he said versus she said ad nauseam, an assortment of memorable hearsay that masks otherwise far more boring truths. It remembers the murderer but oftentimes glosses over the effects of the crime; it immortalizes the ideals of a revolution but too quickly forgets the initial cause and the cost. In the ever-ticking clock of history, the truth of what happened so quickly gives way to what people want to believe.
This is the core narrative theme of Pentiment, playing out over the course of several decades as Andreas' choices influence the lives of those who inhabit the small town of Tassing and the nearby abbey. Regardless of how your investigation in Act I plays out, Andreas will return to Tassing years later in Act II to find much has changed. Even the most flimsy of reasonings years prior can pass into gospel over the course of years, and the accusations levied against the condemned will become truth accepted by all. Most fully believe that the person accused of killing the baron actually did it, and the ripples of that assumed truth have affected the lives of those who are left--some for better, and others for worse. And in the same way, your choices in Act II build into a perceived truth in Act III.
The idea that history is but a series of causes and effects is not a particularly novel observation, culminating in a twist that--though earned--isn't all that interesting. It's left Pentiment as an intriguing conundrum for me. If you asked me whether I liked the story Pentiment told, my answer would be no, as you don't get to see the effects of the concluding revelation play out. And in a game where my choices matter in the moment-to-moment, I want to know how my handling of the final moment affects the lives of the few characters I got to know, if at all. And yet, despite my frustrations with how narratively unsatisfying the ending of Pentiment is, the game so clearly captures the essence of what history ultimately is within that final moment--a collection of tales and retellings so twisted together that there's really no definitive resolution for anyone. And I respect developer Obsidian Entertainment's commitment to remaining true to that.
More than anything, I love the developer's commitment to stylized fonts throughout the game. Pentiment utilizes an assortment of fonts, with messy and curved letters used for the peasants' simpler way of speaking while something more highly stylized is used for those with an education. The brilliance in this style of characterization is best seen when a person's font changes. After Andreas learns that a simple farmer knows how to read, the farmer's letters are erased and rewritten in the more structured font of an educated, literate person, for example. It's such a fun and clever way of showcasing how men like Andreas judged people primarily on their station and appearance, but that perception could be changed on a dime upon learning whether or not someone is educated--one of the only times in any game I've played where I think literally spelling something out actually carries some intriguing narrative weight.
There's not as much narrative complexity to the visual style of Pentiment, but it's striking all the same. The illustrated character models convey a great deal of detail and further carry the idea of history resembling a painting that an artist adds to over and over, with the underlying pentiment--the original image in a painting that reemerges when the top layer fades or is scrubbed away--occasionally shining through. The characters in Pentiment are just pictures being painted over again and again, and you could argue that they aren't even the original image, seeing as Tassing is built upon the ruins of the Romans. It's an interesting concept that Pentiment unfortunately only touches upon in snippets throughout its runtime, saving the intriguing questions posed in comparing history to a pentiment for the final moments of the third act. I wish it had pulled those elements to the forefront much sooner.
As is, Pentiment strives to exist somewhere between a history book and historical fiction, not quite committing to a detailed look at history or fulfilling a narrative arc. This is a detriment to the game's conclusion, dampening my memories of the game save for the stories of individual characters. I retain a soft spot for the wise Illuminata and her conversations with Andreas about literature and religion, and I have a parental fondness for a young peasant girl who I watched grow from a gurgling toddler to a young woman. Witnessing their lives play out is a narrative delight, only enhanced by the creative use of Pentiment's different fonts to better convey a person's societal station or education. But limiting how much time the player actually has to engage in the game's best parts hurts the overall experience too much.
From the moment it was first revealed, it was clear that Sonic Frontiers is quite unlike any of its predecessors. Sonic's 3D adventures have been more miss than hit throughout the blue hedgehog's 31-year existence. For every Sonic Generations, there's been a Sonic Boom or Sonic '06 leaving behind a bitter taste and further diluting the speedy mascot's appeal. Each new game has offered some variation on the Sonic formula, hoping to catch lightning in a bottle and finally give the series a consistent direction moving forward, but none have succeeded--at least until now. Sonic Frontiers is that game.
It certainly has its flaws and still maintains many of the familiar elements you'd expect to find in a game starring the eponymous hedgehog, but it's in the differences where Sonic Frontiers stands out and occasionally excels, making it the best 3D Sonic game in more than a decade.
The biggest and most notable change is the shift to a semi-open world. Sega calls Frontiers "open-zone," meaning the game is split into multiple islands that Sonic is free to explore. Each zone has its own aesthetic, from verdant rolling hills to arid desert plains and a simmering volcanic island floating above the clouds, meshing together natural beauty with ancient alien temples, grind rails, and bounce pads. It's a curious amalgamation but one that works well enough within the game's sci-fi conceit. The environments are also part of a striking tonal shift for the series. The vibrant primary colors of classic Sonic levels like Green Hill Zone have been replaced by a color palette that's low on saturation and high on pastel hues. The obvious inspiration here is The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, not just in the way Frontiers looks, but in its use of music and the shift to open-ended world design. It doesn't play anything like Link's five-year-old adventure, but you can see how Sonic Team was influenced by it throughout.
Progression across each island adheres to the same basic gameplay loop. You defeat mini-bosses to collect cogs, use these to open up Cyber Space levels, complete challenges within these more-traditional Sonic stages to earn vault keys, and then use these to unlock Chaos Emeralds so you can transform into Super Sonic and defeat each island's Titan in a massive boss battle. Along the way, you'll also discover bite-sized challenges that reveal more of the map and reward you with upgrade items, and short platforming sections that grant you the memory tokens you need to free Sonic's friends and propel the story forward. All of this may sound a tad convoluted, but there's a satisfying flow to how exploration and progression work, to the point where you don't even need to think about the bigger picture on a moment-to-moment basis.
There's an in-game map complete with a plethora of various markers, but it's not something I ever felt compelled to look at. The game does a fantastic job of gently guiding you toward points of interest, whether it's a structure on the horizon or a set of conveniently placed ramps and boost pads leading to a platforming segment. Advancing the story requires you to collect a certain number of memory tokens at different intervals, but grabbing them comes naturally while traversing the world so they never feel like something you need to go out of your way to track down. The same is true of the quick-fire challenges you'll find dotted around each island. These range from short time trials to Tetris-style puzzles, and each one concludes with a few hopeful piano notes that would feel right at home in Breath of the Wild.
Tedium is a potential downfall of this formulaic approach, since you're going through the same repetitive gameplay loop with each new island you visit. It's not something I felt until reaching the fifth and final island, mainly because the bite-sized nature of each activity helps stave off any monotony, as does the degree of variety that's present in almost everything you engage with--be it enemy types, environments, challenges, and so on. It's still not quite enough to sustain the entire game, though, and it's disappointing that it runs out of steam toward the end.
Combat is infrequent but has at least been expanded upon so you're not just using Sonic's homing attack to lay waste to everything in your path. You start off with a basic one-button combo and a stomp attack, plus you can dodge and parry incoming attacks. Gradually, however, you'll begin to unlock more abilities via Frontiers' skill tree. You can argue that a character like Sonic doesn't necessarily need a skill tree, and its inclusion here does feel rather superfluous considering you simply unlock every move as you progress through the game. There's no deliberating over specific skills to suit a particular play style, so the skill tree comes across like it was added because that's the contemporary thing to do, even if it doesn't quite fit.
The moves you unlock are fun to use, though, frequently giving you more options when engaging enemies. The first ability you gain access to is called Cyloops, which lets you draw circles around your foes and inflict damage on all of those inside. This can also be used to penetrate and remove armor on certain enemy types, letting you finish them off with a flurry of strikes once they're vulnerable. There are other, more flashy moves, too, allowing you to fire shockwaves from a distance, follow up a successful dodge with a zigzagging attack, or pummel enemies with a flying kick. All of these moves are easy to pull off so you can build up lengthy combos without much effort. This could get tiresome fairly quickly, but what makes combat enjoyable is the variety of enemy types you'll encounter. Each one forces you to think about how you're going to defeat them, and this is especially true when facing off against one of the many Guardians roaming each island.
There are dozens of these mini-bosses, all with self-explanatory names like Spider, Tank, and Sumo. For the most part, these battles are grand in their spectacle and scale, pitting Sonic against huge foes that dwarf his tiny frame, but their quality is uneven. At their best, you'll be grinding around circular discs while avoiding obstacles to reach a weak point, or bouncing off the fences of an enclosed cage to generate momentum and send the Guardian careening into an electrified hazard. But others are protracted, designed around dull mechanics and a flimsy lock-on system. Targeting enemies only works at extremely close range, despite the fact you're regularly fighting in open areas. This makes it difficult to keep an enemy in sight as you close the distance and attempt to avoid the many projectiles they're firing your way. At times, you'll also need to target specific body parts, but this is another lesson in frustration as you fight against Frontiers' cumbersome lock-on.
Cyber Space levels similarly vary in quality. You'll find teleportation points scattered across each island that transport you to these short, traditional Sonic stages. They run the gamut of familiar styles, with some geared towards hitting every boost pad, while others are grind-heavy or shift the perspective to 2D with a focus on more deliberate platforming. Readability in the latter is difficult, however, especially since the camera is zoomed in tight, and Sonic's floaty movement and imprecise jumping aren't particularly conducive to enjoyable platforming.
You can finish most of these Cyber Space levels in a minute or two, but their terse length does lend itself to how replayable they all are. Each level has optional sub-challenges for you to complete, with one of them rewarding you for completing a level under the S-rank time limit. I spent plenty of time going back to find the optimal route through a stage to complete it as fast as possible, and doing so feels like a well-earned victory. It's disappointing that there isn't more variety from a visual standpoint, though. Most of the Cyber Space levels pay homage to classic stages from Sonic's past, with themes based around the likes of Green Hill Zone, Chemical Plant Zone, and Radical Highway, but it doesn't really deviate so levels near the end of the game still look the same as those at the start.
Running around at the speed of sound might be a mantra of the fleet-footed hedgehog, but Sonic Frontiers is at its best when you're given time to simply explore. The music is calming and also solemn at times--even if it knows when to burst into life with a punk rock energy--and there's even a fishing minigame that lets you earn rewards while slowing down the pace a step further. It's easy to fall into a zen-like flow as you traverse each island, rattling off objectives as you happen upon them. There are frustrations that arise and break the flow, whether it's a middling mini-boss or a struggle with Sonic's floaty movement, and it's a big departure from what Sonic fans are used to. I'm fully on board with this new direction, though. Sonic Adventure set the template for the last 24 years of 3D Sonic games, and I'm hopeful Frontiers will do the same for the next generation. It has its flaws, and there's definite room for improvement, but the spiky mascot is finally moving in the right direction.
As a whole, Modern Warfare 2's multiplayer is the fast-paced shooter you expect it to be. The standard maps are scaled down for 6v6 matches this year, so there are less quiet and campy moments, and you're almost always finding yourself in the thick of the action. Modern Warfare 2 does dial back the overly fast-paced movement of recent years too, but that doesn't mean you can't choose a run-and-gun playstyle. The gameplay is just a bit less twitchy too, as the movement feels more on par with the original Modern Warfare series than the 2019 version.
Sliding doesn't quite feel as fast and fluid as Modern Warfare 2019 and the bunny-hopping movement has been nerfed a little since the beta. You can still hop around a corner, but there's not a build-up of an overly-aggressive speed that lets you start hopping all over the map. This makes the multiplayer movement feel more grounded and slower-paced than the last few entries of the franchise, which is a great change. The last few years of Call of Duty has left the majority of the casual player base at a disadvantage in trying to counter the hopping and sliding frenzy.
Modern Warfare 2 launched with the typical modes, perks, and killstreaks, but there are a few notable features missing from this year's game at launch. Call of Duty usually gives players a barracks section of the menu with leaderboards and a combat record to see how they're performing, but the barracks is completely absent in Modern Warfare 2. This is really disappointing because I've had several good games and some fairly awful ones, but I don't have any way to see my overall performance. Not having stats to judge my progress makes matches feel increasingly less rewarding over time. Yes, it's just an arcade shooter, but it's still nice to be able to see if I'm improving, or gauge my success at various game modes. Call of Duty games also usually have a whole section of boot camp and milestone challenges that can be viewed and completed for XP and calling card rewards, but they are also not included.
Another fumble for Infinity Ward is that Modern Warfare 2 is alienating a huge chunk of the playerbase at launch with the lack of a hardcore playlist, which the developer has renamed as "Tier 1" mode and says will now release on November 16 with the launch of Season 1 and Call of Duty: Warzone 2.0. There is an entire community of hardcore players that always get to play this mode at launch, who had no idea their preferred playlist wouldn't be available. All of these missing features and lack of a hardcode playlist are a bummer, because this is an otherwise refreshing return to classic Call of Duty.
One of Modern Warfare 2019's biggest flaws was the map pool being designed around massive spaces that could be utilized for all modes, various player counts, and playstyles. This was an issue because Call of Duty's multiplayer doesn't work well with a one-size-fits-all approach. Thankfully, Modern Warfare 2 provides standard maps that are better designed with the core 6v6 experience in mind, while Ground War has "battle maps" for the large-scale mode. There are a few standard maps that are also a piece of a larger Ground War map, but the standard version of the map still feels appropriately sized for core multiplayer. For example, Mercado Las Almas is a solid 6v6 map for all game modes, but the location can also be found tucked away in the Las Almas setting of the Guijarro Ground War map.
There are 10 standard maps and five battle maps. Standout maps include Mercado Las Almas, which features a small marketplace with fast-paced routes. No matter the mode you choose, there's always some action happening on Mercado. Another strong map is Crown Raceway, which is a nighttime map set at a Formula 1 racetrack. This layout doesn't quite feature a classic three-lane map design, but it's not overly complex, and the map flows really well across all game modes.
Of course, almost every Call of Duty has one unpopular or controversial map, and this year it's Santa Sena Border Crossing. This has an awkward layout, as it's just a long strip of highway congested with cars. There are a few small buildings along both sides of the highway, but the map leaves much to be desired in terms of variety. Most of the fighting takes place with nothing but the traffic jam of cars, many of which will explode from damage. It only takes one grenade or killstreak to set off a chain reaction of exploding cars, which can quickly turn deadly.
Unlike the previous Modern Warfare, which featured mostly drab maps with washed-out color palettes, Modern Warfare 2's maps include more colorful environments. These maps are much easier on the eyes than its predecessor, and the variety of map locations as well as the pop of color help avoid any overload of monotony, making the vibrancy of maps like Crown Raceway and Mercado much appreciated.
Modern Warfare 2 features 10 game modes to choose from in standard multiplayer. This includes the staple game modes like Team Deathmatch, Domination, Hardpoint, Search and Destroy, and Free-For-All, and all of these can provide a great time in Modern Warfare 2. Sadly, there are only two new modes being introduced here called Prisoner Rescue and Knockout, and they leave much to be desired in terms of objective gameplay.
Prisoner Rescue is a 6v6 mode that requires players to take turns either trying to defend or rescue two prisoners on the map. Knockout is a very similar 6v6 round-based mode, with fast rounds in a best-of-five match, where both teams fight to hold a bag of cash. Both Prisoner Rescue and Knockout are no-respawn modes, but players can revive their fallen teammates to get them back in the match.
Both new 6v6 modes are underwhelming, and it's a shame that both new modes added this year are so similar to one another. Knockout or Prisoner Rescue both play out similarly, usually devolving into rounds of Team Deathmatch with very few teammates ever bothering to play the objective, which can often happen in Call of Duty modes. Unless there are measures in place to entice players to play the actual objective, matches can often lead to becoming a kill fest that goes to time instead of score. Both modes seem to be meant to introduce a non-respawn mode that plays faster than Search and Destroy, but both lack any real creativity compared to some of Call of Duty's past modes, such as Black Ops 4's Counter-Strike-like Heist mode.
Conspicuously absent are any new 2v2 or 3v3 objective modes, such as Modern Warfare 2019's 2v2 Gunfight mode or Vanguard's Champion Hill. Gunfight was one of the most pleasant surprises of Modern Warfare, and it provided a much more adrenaline-fueled and tactical challenge than you get in the higher player count of Knockout or Prisoner Rescue. Not only does Modern Warfare 2 not introduce a new mode like this of its own, but Gunfight is absent–at least at launch.
Ground War returns for those who want a bigger fight than 6v6, again providing 32v32 large-scale warfare played on sprawling maps. There are two Ground War modes available with the choice of standard or Invasion mode. Standard Ground War is much like Modern Warfare 2019's successful mode, serving as an oversized Domination match with five control points to capture and hold for points. This standard mode is chaotic fun, with tank battles, air support, boat fights, and underwater combat. This truly feels like Call of Duty's sandbox mode, and there's something for everyone here. Ground War has a really strong map pool, with each featuring plenty of building variety and verticality to cater to all playstyles and weapon types. Ground War: Invasion, meanwhile, is a Team Deathmatch-style mode with a point system that goes beyond just getting kills to rack up a score. You're also awarded points for shooting down enemy killstreaks or destroying their vehicles. Unfortunately, this feels like the weaker of the two modes.
Invasion is a scaled-down 20v20 experience, with Ground War maps shrunk down accordingly, cutting away the areas of water and much of the open ground. This leaves you to primarily fight through the streets and buildings at the center point of the map. Taking out the swimming and extra vehicle opportunities is a bit of a bummer because the water combat is a blast and works so well for Ground War. Another low point is that Invasion is also padded with bots. Each team has a set of AI soldiers, and this doesn't really add to the experience. The AI is a weak opponent, and those fights feel so unrewarding. It's also a bit jarring to easily take out a bot, but then immediately get smoked by the human player rushing up behind them. This will be a game mode that best serves new players just dipping their toes into Call of Duty, but otherwise, it is a place more seasoned players will likely come to just bot farm and level up their weapons.
Another major addition is the ability to play Modern Warfare 2's standard maps in third person. This is a separate playlist with mixed respawn modes. Previously, in our beta impressions, I mentioned finding myself with a bit of motion sickness while playing. Thankfully, the third-person mode has one of the most notable changes from the beta, as Infinity Ward has adjusted the perspective while aiming, so you'll only switch from third-person to first-person perspective when aiming-down-sights with scopes over 4x zoom.
The change in perspective does help, and I find myself now able to play and enjoy the mode without feeling queasy from the constant swap of perspective. There is still a slight character bob while in third-person, but nothing that's prevented me from playing. This is a much more enjoyable experience than the previous style of constantly switch between perspectives. With some closer to the traditional third-person perspective of 2009's Modern Warfare 2's third-person Team Tactical mode, this now feels like a playlist I can see myself revisiting just to break up the monotony of standard matches, and it will be nice to view the fancy operator skins I'll acquire from future battle passes.
Although Modern Warfare 2 takes us back to the past with classic movement and traditional map design, one component Infinity Ward pushes further is the Gunsmith weapon customization feature. This year's Gunsmith adds a new layer of complexity for unlocking weapons and crafting the best build. The Gunsmith's new Platform system is essentially created to eliminate the grind of unlocking the same attachment over and over for different guns, which sounds great in theory, but it actually ends up being a different type of time-consuming headache.
Unlocking guns and attachments is no longer a simple process of just leveling up and using the weapon you want. Instead, you're forced to use weapons in other classes just to unlock attachments and additional weapons. For example, I couldn't just level up and use the M4 to get everything I wanted for it. Some attachments were locked behind the use and leveling of a sniper rifle and battle rifle. For context, I'm almost level 48 of 55, and there are still so many guns and attachments locked behind other gun requirements. I would have most of my weapons already unlocked in previous games.
Overall, it's nice not to need to unlock the same attachments over and over again, but the complexity of how the entire Platforms system is designed could be overwhelming for new or casual players. I'm not a big fan of snipers or light machine guns, but I'm essentially being forced to level them up to get some of the attachments I want for my assault rifles and submachine guns. Additionally, some people are going to want to hop on with a preferred weapon or two and not want to use guns they don't like just to get the optic or barrel attachment they want.
Another Gunsmith complexity comes from Modern Warfare 2's new fine-tuning feature. Once you reach the max level with a weapon that can be customized, you unlock the ability to fine-tune each individual attachment. For example, you can choose to reduce recoil when using a specific attachment, but at the cost of reducing the weapon's handling. This could be overwhelming for a casual player, who doesn't want to worry about the hassle of building the "meta weapon," but this is great for the hardcore fanatics looking to make the most of their favorite weapons. On another note, Modern Warfare 2 is dialing the customization back with a limit of five attachments, which is down from last year's 10 attachments in Vanguard. So, this is one good regression in an otherwise overly-complex weapons customization feature.
The game also adds a shooting range, where you can now go to test out the guns you've spent time building. This is something the community has been asking for, and it's great to have the option to test out different attachments to better find something to suit your playstyle. Modern Warfare 2's guns also look and sound great, with the reload animations and gunfire audio up to par with Modern Warfare 2019's stellar quality.
As alluded to earlier, Modern Warfare 2 also adds new maneuverability mechanics, such as swimming, mantling, and hanging from ledges or the sides of vehicles. These new features are best utilized in Ground War, where mantling and ledge-hanging can be great for when you're parachuting down on a building and want to make a sneaky rooftop play. The new options can really make for some interesting plays, and it can be very useful to hop up and catch a ride on the exterior of an already full vehicle.
Spec Ops
Modern Warfare 2 also comes packaged with Spec Ops mode, which is a two-player co-op experience of large-scale missions taking place in Al Mazrah, the new map location for Warzone 2.0. There are three missions available with more to come post-launch. So far, my time with these missions makes the mode feel somewhere in between the original Spec Ops experience in 2009's Modern Warfare 2 and Modern Warfare 2019. These missions are a little more open-world than the smaller set pieces used in the fan-favorite 2009 version, but this reboot is not as buggy nor plagued with the same overwhelming enemy spawn system that Modern Warfare 2019 had.
Once nice throwback for fans takes place on the Defender: Mt Zaya. This is a survival mode that requires you to defend a location from increasingly difficult waves of enemies, and the map setting is a larger version of Modern Warfare 3's Dome map, which also features a survival mode. Beyond that, however, there's no particularly standout here, but it can be a fun co-op experience and a nice break from multiplayer matches.
Modern Warfare 2's version of Spec Ops also introduces a new layer to the mode with Kits, which is like having a set loadout of perks, field upgrades, and killstreaks tailored to fit the role you choose. For example, the Assault Kit lets you equip an extra armor plate, and leveling up the Kit will get you additional benefits, such as faster reload, stims, and additional armor plates. You can easily get through all three Spec Ops missions without having to utilize these Kits at all, but they are beneficial if you're going for fast completion times. Hopefully, the Kits will be more beneficial for the game's seasonal content, as they don't really feel worth the grind to level up, yet. Activision says the Kits will also be used for Modern Warfare 2's upcoming Raids feature, which the publisher described as a three-player cooperative mode with a mix of combat and puzzles, and maybe they'll be better utilized there.
I'm playing Modern Warfare 2 on PlayStation 5, and the first two days were rough with frequent freezes and crashes, but an update has dramatically reduced the number of crashes for me. Others have experienced various bugs, Spec Ops glitches, and features like pinging and the weapon tuning are currently disabled due to game-breaking issues. Taking all of this into account, I am still having a really great time playing Modern Warfare 2, despite the rough launch weekend. However, it just can't be ignored that the overall package is missing those core multiplayer features. It's definitely the gameplay and classic feel that saves the experience for me.
Modern Warfare 2's gunplay and the fast time-to-kill all feels very much the same as Modern Warfare 2019. However, Infinity Ward definitely improved a lot on what worked and didn't work in the previous game. The scaled-back maps definitely make for better pacing, the less hectic movement is not so overwhelming, and all the new maneuverability features make the game so enjoyable from match to match. No one should load into a match expecting this game to be anything like the original Modern Warfare 2, but all issues aside, this rebooted version's gameplay does serve as a positive successor to Modern Warfare 2019.
They say everything old is new again, and that's definitely been the case for survival-horror games lately. Full remakes, remasters, and reboots have made the headlines in one of gaming's more underserved genres, with no end in sight. So it's been an exciting change of pace to play Signalis, which is blatantly inspired by landmark franchises like Silent Hill and Resident Evil, but offers its own original horror universe to explore.
Signalis doesn't look exactly like the games that inspired it, but it only takes a short while before a veteran of the genre knows what they're in for. The top-down 2D pixel art isn't a precise callback to its spiritual predecessors, nor is its lack of voice acting, but as soon as you start finding door unlock codes on the back of photos you investigate in your inventory screen, memories of the Raccoon City Police Department or Brookhaven Hospital will inevitably come flooding back.
As its protagonist, the robotic LSTR (pronounced Elster), moves through darkened hallways and abandoned dorm rooms set aboard a futuristic space vessel seeking habitable planets for its dystopian "Nation" to conquer; she walks, runs, aims, and carries a gun just like Jill Valentine or another horror alum of the PS1 era. Searching behind every door that isn't "jammed on the other side" for her missing human companion, the story unfolds in a way you've likely seen before--as though you're perpetually falling into a world you might not be prepared for, but you can't turn back.
As a horror fan, I found it atmospheric and intoxicating, and it's often aided by the work of clever audio designers who know when not to fill the space with noise, and who have picked a pitch-perfect safe room song that somehow sounds soothing and spooky at once. Like Silent Hill 2, you'll even descend into several gaping holes in the world with no foresight of what might await you on the other side. Callbacks like these, which help form its original story in established territory, are subtle references, but other nods are more obvious.
It's a game where you encounter monsters in hallways with barely any room to run past them, hardly enough ammo to take them down, and seldom a clue as to where you need to go next. But, like the genre's titans, the devil is always in the details, and the game rewards a cautious but ultimately decisive playstyle. It doesn't take long to learn that evading enemies is usually better than pumping your only few bullets into them, and even when you must resort to combat, you'll want to burn the bodies with flares, or else watch as they eventually come back to life to haunt you once more.
Managing your limited inventory space means prepping for the immediate moments when you leave a safe room, because with just six slots to wrestle with, you won't want to discard precious ammo in order to store a quest item, such as an odd key or a mysterious stone tablet, so it makes no sense to pack for the long haul. With a bit of progress, you'll find respite in another safe room.
Whenever a puzzle would halt my progress, it always felt like I was just overlooking something. Maybe it was a note in my inventory that hinted at the keycode I lacked. Maybe it was an item I hadn't found yet because a back alley of assailants stood in my way. Thanks to the game's helpful map display, which tracks quest items and puzzle areas in familiar but subtly more detailed ways, I was often lost figuratively, but never literally. I always had a rough idea of what I needed to do, which makes the puzzles feel fairer than many of those we've seen in games like this.
In this way, Signalis builds on the games it strives to evoke without betraying their vital way of scrambling your brain. That sense of confusion is key to creating the feeling that the walls are closing in around you, like you don't know where to turn for safety and you're doomed to walk the halls with the dead forever. Signalis proves that an experience can still be tense without being indecipherable.
To the seasoned horror player, these experiences are surely familiar, but because they're executed well and supplemented by an engrossing slow-burning story and universe, I find Signalis, in most ways, comfortably stands among the games its two-person team so blatantly adore. When you're not finding clues in notes or objects, you're often learning new lore regarding Signalis' futuristic dystopia, where civil wars, a humanoid-robot working class, and the occult collide to present a world that feels steeped in history even as you'll see so little of it as Elster. Aided by an unnerving lofi soundtrack, the game's story and atmosphere land as some of its best, most original feats, and help Signalis stand out more than its purposely tropey puzzles and combat do.
Signalis is owed plenty of praise for all of these stated reasons, though it's not without faults. Its third-person aiming mechanics can get frustrating at times, as even the soft auto-aim feature on by default is too liable to miss--a save-scum-worthy error when ammo is so low. Maybe this is the game's way of also mimicking the faulty combat controls of the genre's progenitors, but to me it just comes off as inadvertently clunky.
Still, it does wind up instilling some fear in the game, which you may be surprised to learn is actually generally lacking. I've called the game tense and unnerving, and it is certainly both of those things, but I've not called it scary because, unfortunately, it isn't. I think that particular distinction matters a lot. In tight quarters, enemies will raise your heart rate, but it stems from a will to not reload a save, not from the enemies' ability to actually scare. Perhaps more than most elements of games, this attribute is highly subjective, but I do expect other similarly versed horror players will agree. I'm tense when I can't find my wallet. I'm unnerved by getting my picture taken. Being scared is something different, and though I love Signalis for so much of what it does well, it never does feel scary.
But Signalis is great in spite of its lack of true scares and deserves to be played by anyone who enjoys games like it. I've enjoyed many horror movies and books that don't scare me because I like the subject matter, the settings, the characters, or some other elements of them, and the same can be true for games. Signalis isn't a scary horror game, but it is a memorable one that borrows from the past while helping secure a future for games like this--and the small but talented team, with any luck. For me, atmospheric, tense, and creepy are adequate stand-ins for true horror, and Signalis has plenty to offer along those lines.
The advent of digital collectible card games has led to an explosion of different approaches to the genre. Mostly, though, new games have adapted the fundamentals of physical CCGs. With Marvel Snap, Hearthstone veteran studio Second Dinner has reduced the collectible card game to its most essential pieces and reimagined them, creating a combination of systems that are elegantly simple without ever feeling simplistic.
Like many other modern card games, Marvel Snap automates its equivalent of mana or energy, adding one unit per turn. But then it streamlines the genre even further: Each game lasts only six turns, and there is no direct combat between characters or choosing whether to deal damage to enemy scrubs or "go face" for direct player damage. Instead, your goal is to accumulate the most power across three locations. At the end of six turns, whoever controls two of the three locations wins the match, and ties are determined by total power across all three.
Those three locations are randomly selected from a massive pool, each introducing their own intricacies and elements, and the areas range from the straightforward to the silly. The symbiote planet Klyntar will depower every card played on it, while NYC's Central Park adds a 1-power squirrel to each other location. The locations are revealed from left to right over the first three turns. The random nature means you can be halfway through a match when a surprise third location completely shakes up your strategy, and sometimes you'll need to gamble by blindly playing a hero into an unrevealed location.
The locations are, as you might expect, inspired by famous locales from the Marvel comics and cinematic universes. Westview, taken from the Marvel Cinematic Universe, changes into another random location on turn four, an homage to the story of WandaVision. Bruce Banner's Gamma Lab turns every card into a Hulk, which can make for a big power swing if you manage to stash a lot of low-value cards there. These locations are some of the most inventive homages to Marvel canon, especially if you're familiar enough with comics to recognize something like The Space Throne.
The hero cards themselves are built around Marvel mainstays as well, with similar but occasionally less inventive concepts than the locations. The vast majority of the cards are clever, creative envisioning of how to express the famous power sets of these heroes inside the medium of Marvel Snap's mechanics. Iron Man, for example, doubles your power level at a location by equipping all your cards with an arc reactor. Captain America inspires his teammates, giving an ongoing boost to other cards wherever he is. And in a cute touch, Quicksilver always starts in your opening hand, as visualized by him arriving before all of your other cards. Half the joy of obtaining a new card is seeing how these famous heroes have been given a fitting power in the game. There are a handful of cards that feel like the game mechanic application came first and were then awkwardly mapped onto a hero, but those are rare exceptions.
And within those mechanics, Marvel Snap isn't afraid to break its own rules. One location makes the game last seven turns instead of six. Another location sets the goal for its area of control as having the least power, so you might win by simply not playing anything there at all if your opponent accidentally plays or generates a card there. And sometimes, the game will surprise you with a completely unexpected curveball. At one point my game’s starting location was Ego, a living planet that takes over the game and plays both players' decks for them. This essentially turned it into a two-sided A.I. match, and it was a hoot to watch. These wild situations seem engineered to come up only rarely, so they're a delightful surprise when they do.
By making the game center around locations that are randomly assigned, no two games feel exactly the same, and it encourages thinking on your toes. In a traditional CCG, you build your deck around a game plan or win condition, and most games revolve around fending off your opponent and executing your plan. Marvel Snap certainly maintains that level of initial planning strategy, but the conditions on the field can change on a dime. You might end up winning in a completely different way than you had planned, simply by adapting and anticipating your opponent's moves. And sometimes, for better and worse, the conditions on the field will render your plan functionally impossible to complete. I had built a deck around a big one-two punch on turns five and six--but found that's unworkable when I happen to play a match that summons the Time Variance Authority location, which ends the game after turn four.
Even when a bad draw or strange location costs you the match, losing never feels too punishing. This is partly because the games themselves are so quick and, pardon the phrase, snappy. With a match only lasting a few minutes at most, it's easy enough to shrug off a loss and queue into your next match, without having invested a significant amount of time. But it's also because of another element, which provides the game its namesake.
Though the game seems to ease you in with bot matches presented like real opponents, it isn't long before you're taking on real opponents and competing for rank. In this case, rank is represented by Cosmic Cubes. It takes 10 Cubes to level up a rank, and each win grants you two Cubes by default. But at any point during a match, you or your opponent can "Snap"--doubling the wager to bet on yourself to win. If one player snaps and the game continues, you're playing for four Cubes. If both players snap, you're playing for eight. This introduces an element of bluffing, as you may want to hide your big game-swinging play for the very end, to lull your opponent into confidence enough to snap back and earn you more cubes. But it also means that you can Retreat at any time you don't feel confident in the win. This is not just a standard concession--it actually saves you some cubes to retreat rather than continue with a match you'll ultimately lose. Getting away from a doomed match having lost only one cube when your opponent wanted to raise the stakes to four actually feels like a relief, rather than a loss.
Shorter games also means smaller decks--only 12 cards in total--which makes deckbuilding more inviting and less intimidating. Even as a years-long player of Hearthstone, I often find building a deck of 30 or more cards difficult to wrap my mind around. In Marvel Snap, the deck size is so small that it's easy to tinker with a deck, swapping out one less-used card for your latest find, sample it for a couple of lightning-quick games, and then tinker some more.
A similarly refined approach has been applied to its progression mechanics. The explosion of digital CCGs has by-and-large used the collection approach popularized by Magic, Pokemon, and similar physical card games years prior. You pay money for a random pack of cards and then use that to construct your deck. Marvel Snap breaks out of this paradigm in favor of a different form of CCG progression that is truly only available in a digital context. Instead of cracking open randomized packs of cards, you build your collection by visually upgrading your existing ones. You earn upgrade materials through play and then use those to upgrade cards with several tiers of visual effects: breaking out of the frame, a nifty 3D effect, an animated background, and so on. Upgrading those cards earns you "Collection Rank," which progresses you along a path that earns you more upgrade materials and, most importantly, new cards. Then you can begin upgrading those new ones, and the process starts over again.
It's a fiendishly compelling system that feeds into itself, and one that could easily have become predatory. So far, that isn't the case. While anything is possible with a live game that will continue to add content for the foreseeable future, right now you can't simply spend your way into all the best cards. Even if you had infinite money to spend, you can only purchase a handful of upgrade shortcuts per day, making it a fairly inefficient way to level up. The monetization strategy instead seems aimed mostly at purchasing variant art, like pixelated or baby versions of the characters. There's so many of these it seems impossible to gauge how long it could take to collect them all, but it's also a purely visual flourish.
The other monetization comes in the form of a season pass, which awards new cards, credits, and other bonuses for completing missions. In my experience so far, this is also surprisingly generous and low-impact. I was concerned that by coming in midway through the season I may not be able to finish the season pass in time and miss out on the best rewards. After only a few days I was already caught up and able to start pocketing the new missions as they progressively unlocked. Daily missions unlock on a regular timer every eight hours, and take just a few minutes to complete, and largely grant progress toward your season pass missions. This is a game that wants you to check in frequently for a little bit of time, not obsess over for hours at a time.
Though to be honest, it's too late for that--I've already lost hours to Marvel Snap and I am obsessed. The game is fine-tuned, well-designed, and so easily digestible that it’s difficult to put down. I keep finding myself continuing to play even after having completed my daily or season pass missions, just because I want to play another match, or try a new card. Second Dinner has built an incredible foundation here, and I expect Marvel Snap will continue drawing me in for years to come.
If Illfonic Entertainment set out to make an authentic Ghostbusters experience, it's done so in Ghostbusters: Spirits Unleashed. The game's look, sound, and feel is true-to-form, right down to the voices of Dan Aykroyd and Ernie Hudson as Ray Stantz and Winston Zeddemore, respectively. Manning a proton pack and PKE meter for the first time in order to track and trap ghosts is a shot of ectoplasmic adrenaline. As a video game, however, it falls into a devious trap of its own, one where excitement hastily shifts to monotonous repetition. Spirits Unleashed captures the Ghostbusters feeling well, but that authenticity belies a shallow, repetitive game that quickly wears out its welcome.
Spirits Unleashed puts you in the shoes of a new Ghostbusters recruit, a nameless grunt sent in to deal with the paranormal hauntings in New York City. The repurposed firehouse from the Ghostbusters franchise serves as your base of operations, and it features a workbench for upgrading gear, lockers to customize your Ghostbuster, and a training area to work out the kinks. Across the alley from the firehouse is an oddities shop run by Ray Stantz himself, where you can talk to the Dan Aykroyd-voiced character about the current goings-on.
The core gameplay loop is an asymmetrical multiplayer experience, where four Ghostbusters take on a single ghost; the Busters must trap the ghost with no chance of escape, while the Ghost must evade capture and scare NPCs through noise and possession in order to fill a "haunt meter." The ghost has three rifts that act as respawn points at its disposal, and when all three are destroyed, the ghost's next trip into a trap will mark victory for the Busters.
With a group of five human players, this approach is a ton of fun. Ghosts can wreak all sorts of havoc, from sliming Ghostbusters by dashing through them to summoning small AI minions to distract the team. The ghosts also have full range of motion in the 3D space, which allows the ghost player to stick to the ceilings to stay out of reach in some rooms. Conversely, Ghostbusters can tether a ghost by firing the proton pack long enough, pulling the ghost in whichever direction they choose. Furthermore, the PKE meter has a quick blast that can take out multiple minions at once.
That's the beauty of the gameplay system Illfonic has designed here: Every perk for one side of the battle can be countered by the other, and vice versa. Proton packs will overheat if used continuously for too long, so if a ghost can manipulate the tether long enough, it will break free. Should a ghost find itself in a trap, there is a "last chance" mechanic that will allow it to escape if done well. The push and pull of momentum in the heat of a match is done very well, and it makes for a ghoulishly good time… to a point.
I stress "a group of five human players" above because should any of the slots be filled by an AI companion/ghost, the experience buckles. The AI in Spirits Unleashed--particularly that of the Ghostbusters--is incredibly dumb, which sometimes results in decisions that actively hurt the team. In one match, I had a ghost tethered and was dragging it to an AI teammate's trap, and the instant I reached it, the AI picked the trap up, as if it decided "nope, this match has to go a little longer." The team eventually did capture the ghost, but I could not get over that moment. It's a good thing Podcast--that was his name, no joke--was only an AI teammate or I might have chewed him out.
No matter how many players are in a match together, the main issue with Spirits Unleashed--a deadly serious issue, unfortunately--is its longevity. Sure, it's fun in the heat of the moment, but those moments are fleeting and eventually give way to a feeling of tedium and monotony. Sometimes there's a literal lack of longevity, as one match played with four human Ghostbusters and one AI ghost lasted less than four minutes, but that's just a modicum of the real issue. There's an obvious lack of depth here, with the game's main game mode not offering enough of an experience to hold my interest for more than a match or two.
The main gameplay mode's loop, as fun as it can be, doesn't have much to it: Ghostbusters enter a building, hunt for the ghost, fight the ghost, and that's it. That's the only mode available right now, and as mentioned above there are times where a match can be over in a blink. This problem is exacerbated by each of the five maps--which include a museum, a microbrewery, and a cruise ship--doing very little to stand out from one another despite their drastically different themes. Because of this, after a while matches begin to feel repetitive, which in turn begins to put a strain on the novelty of being a Ghostbuster. I want to dive headfirst into this role, but the game's only letting me into the ectoplasmic kiddie pool.
That's not to say there aren't other activities in each match, but the ones that exist don't add enough. Talking bystanders down takes only two button presses. The collectibles to find in each map--including news clippings of the Ghostbusters' previous adventures and fungi of different sizes--are neat, but they don't serve any impactful purpose. The clippings fill a wall with readable journal entries, while the fungi contribute to a meter that gives extra experience at certain milestones. These small extras end up being inconsequential, and it's possible to completely ignore them while playing.
Speaking of inconsequential, there's an original story featuring Akroyd and Hudson that plays out as you bust ghosts. Every once in a while, you'll return to the firehouse and be greeted with a one-off challenge, which sometimes is as simple as "go talk to Ray in the shop." Once the unique scenes play out, it's back to the same gameplay loop. Other than brief respites from the monotonous main game--and admittedly great voice acting from everyone involved--the story adds very little to the overall experience.

What does add a lot to the game, however, is its customization system. As you bust ghosts, you'll gain experience, which will allow you to earn new upgrades for all of your gear. These upgrades allow for some interesting builds depending on the stat boosts given, which gives you a lot of wiggle room for experimentation. One of my group members preferred tethering and dragging ghosts, so they picked upgrades that focused on strengthening the tether and making it easier to pull the ghost around. I liked sniffing out hidden rifts and ghosts, so I built up the PKE meter as much as possible. Building my best Buster is very cool… I just wish I were able to do more with him.
Ghostbusters: Spirits Unleashed does a terrific job of capturing the feeling of being a Ghostbuster. Illfonic clearly put a lot of time, effort, and love of the IP into this game, and playing it with pals is initially very fun, whether you're playing as a Ghostbuster or a ghost. However, the game's shelf life is incredibly short, as the gameplay loop quickly becomes repetitive and stale. There are wonderful elements here--deep customization being a key one--but none of it feels impactful when the core gameplay so quickly stagnates. Ghostbusters: Spirits Unleashed may make me into a Ghostbuster, but the job has a disappointingly small shelf life.
There's nothing more attractive than confidence, and Bayonetta 3 developer PlatinumGames is well aware of it. From the way Bayonetta sashays about the screen--left hand cocked on her hip while the other clutches her gun--to the sheer bombastic nature of the game itself, every part of Bayonetta 3 is unapologetically self-assured. Like the titular witch, Bayonetta 3 feels as if it doesn't much care how it is perceived because it its own worth as a game that offers fast and fluid gameplay, jaw-dropping spectacles, comedy, and camp in a way very few others do. And it's hard to argue with that when it's true.
Like its predecessors, Bayonetta 3 is spectacular in the truest sense of the word. Though the game's core gameplay is familiar, it ups the stakes, sending players on a multi-dimensional journey across time to save the world. If that's not enough, this venture also comes with full-scale kaiju battles, exhilarating chase sequences, a new, sword-wielding character who is wildly fun to play as, and a series of 2D stealth-based chapters that follow Jeanne as she infiltrates enemy headquarters. All this, paired with the qualities that made Bayonetta 2 so beloved, make for a can't-miss entry in the action games genre.
Naturally, it falls upon Bayonetta to put a stop to these plans. Carrying over from the previous games are the basic kick, punch, and shoot abilities, which can be linked together to form complex and visually-delightful combos, as well as both Torture attacks and Climaxes for over-the-top flourishes. Bayonetta also still relies upon perfectly-timed dodges to enter Witch Time, a state in which all enemies are slowed down to a near-halt as Bayonetta rips through their defenses with bullets and beatdowns. Though performing combos (and avoiding taking damage) is still vital to winning battles and earning high-ranking medals, Bayonetta 3 pivots away from the previous games' dependence on weaving together masterful combos to fill your magic meter, instead allowing it to fill throughout combat in order to charge up Bayonetta's show-stopping abilities. Two such abilities are Demon Masquerade and Demon Slave, the former of which allows Bayonetta to take on the form of one of her demons to utilize part of their abilities, while the latter summons an infernal demon you can control in battle through risque dance. This adds an interesting bit of strategy to the action game, as you must ensure your dance is not interrupted by an attack, consider which demon works best in each battle, and manage your magic meter to ensure you're ready to summon a demon when the opportune time presents itself. At times, controlling these demons can be a bit chaotic, particularly the game's new train demon, Wartrain Gouon, which requires you to place down tracks while in battle before it emerges and dishes out massive damage. However, once you slow things down and get deliberate about your movements, they quickly become a blast to use.
The same can also be said about combat as a whole. Though Bayonetta 3 accommodates button-mashers, it is lightly punitive to such methods in a way that encourages growth. If you don't make the time to learn how to properly time your attacks, dodges, and use of abilities, the game's increasing difficulty will prove to be too much. Of course you can grind levels and invest in accessories, healing items, and items that grant you upgrades to your health and magic bars to sustain your button-mashing ways, but Bayonetta 3 gives you all the tools you need to learn and succeed the way it's intended, offering up visual cues that instruct you to interact with targets in unique ways and other helpful tips. However, this does not mean there's no room to incorporate your own style.
In Bayonetta 3, you can equip two weapons, each with their own unique kit of skills and combos, allowing for you to quickly cycle between them in battle. In fights with large, slow enemies, using a tankier weapon can help Bayonetta take them down quickly. Conversely, high-speed enemies require high-speed attacks, lest you want to spend the bulk of a fight chasing them down and swinging at air. Other weapons, such as my personal favorite, the Ignis Araneae Yo-Yo, excel at keeping you skyborne, which is a helpful skill when fighting enemies that deal close-range damage. Bayonetta can also cycle through three equipped infernal demons, each with their own fighting style. Though Malphas might have a fair bit of dexterity, monstrosities like Gamorrah are powerful yet slow. All this makes for a game that allows you to play how you want to play, which only adds to how powerful you feel while doing it, as well as the game's overall replayability.
In addition to standard battles, Bayonetta 3 also boasts stunning cinematic showdowns that feature enemies of staggering proportions and culminate in jaw-dropping moments. From swinging across crumbling buildings as a sort of hellish Spider-Woman to entering spectacular kaiju fights complete with devastating beam attacks, the game is unpredictable and relentlessly exciting. This is all made even better by the fact that Bayonetta 3 ensures the player stays in control throughout most of these sequences when they could just as easily cast that interaction aside in favor of quick time events. I can't think of many action games that feel as frenetic and fun as Bayonetta 3, or play with scale and framing to quite the same effect. Bayonetta 3 does a fantastic job of honoring its titular character with battles every bit as big, bold, and beautiful as her.
Outside of combat, the game is similar to previous entries in that it has light open-world sections where Bayonetta can traverse as she seeks out encounters, referred to in the game as verses. The environments range from Tokyo subway stations and collapsing skyscrapers to ancient ruins and historical landmarks, and feature hidden secrets, challenges, and areas where time has been distorted. In each of these zones, you play as a young Bayonetta attempting to rewind or fast-forward time in order to solve a puzzle and progress. While not too profoundly stylized or robust, these areas are enjoyable to search around.
However, even with all these abilities, saving the world is a tall task for one witch alone. Fortunately, Bayonetta has two powerful friends eager to lend her a helping hand. The first of these is longtime companion Jeanne, who adds her own unique flavor to the game in the shape of 2D stealth challenges. Though they're fairly simple and short, these challenges are a blast to play and add a sort of campy Katana Zero vibe to the game as Jeanne traverses floors silently, takes down enemies, crawls through ducts, and stumbles into some humorous interactions.
Bayonetta also finds help in a young and mysterious katana-wielding woman named Viola. Though Viola might project a devil-may-care attitude as she trudges around in her low-rise plaid pants, knee-high combat boots, and distressed leather jacket, this newcomer is a bit of a softie, a fact Bayonetta has far too much fun with. However, this doesn't mean Viola isn't tough as nails. Equipped with a katana and her own infernal demon called Cheshire, Viola is a fast-paced blast to play as. While she uses the same core mechanics as Bayonetta, there are a few differences between the two, chiefly that you don't have to control Chesire--the cat-like creature is confined in Viola's blade, meaning you simply throw the sword and then bare-knuckle brawl while he is out--and you are able to both block and dodge attacks, though only blocking at precisely the right moment allows you to enter Witch Time. Viola also carries herself quite differently than the graceful, contortionist we know and love. Rather than perform delicate acrobatic movements, Viola moves like a dextrous swordsman, shrouded by a youthful energy that is almost electrifying. Whereas Bayonetta's post-battle screen shows her arching backwards with a knowing smile, Viola's is accompanied by a power chord and punk expression.
The dynamic between these three Time Witches is both charming and chaotic, and another high-point in a game full of them. It also reinforces one of the Bayonetta series' most interesting themes: a woman does not necessarily grow more powerful the more masculine she is. Despite Viola being a lot more of a "tomboy" than the slender and large-busted Bayonetta, it's made very apparent that Bayonetta is an artist with a gun and someone Viola can learn a lot from on her journey of growth.
Bayonetta 3 is a leap forward from 2--particularly in terms of how Bayonetta and the main party look--and it makes good use of the Switch's hardware capabilities. Unfortunately, there are noticeable deficiencies, too, and as newer titles hit current-gen consoles, it becomes increasingly clear that the Switch is struggling to keep up. In the case of Bayonetta 3, this results in often barren locations, and NPCs that look severely outdated. The game does a lot to ensure your eyes are focused on the action, where it looks vibrant with colors and detailed with particle effects. However, allow yourself to look at the background and you'll be met with simple geometry, crude textures, and dull tones. Based on my playthrough, this seems to be a tradeoff that Platinum Games has made to ensure the game runs well regardless of if players are using the Switch in handheld mode or docked, but it's one that comes at a very visible cost.
What Bayonetta 3 lacks in visual fidelity, however, it more than makes up for with style. With bright colors and a jazzy feel to the game, it ventures closer to Atlus' prowess with style. The music is also fantastic. From dramatic numbers filled with operatic vocals to the fast-paced pop-punk bops that play when Viola is on the field, the game does not lack in tracks that are just as grand and as energetic as Bayonetta 3 itself.
I'm not sure whether it's because of the game's fantastic music, the use of the word "verse" to refer to encounters, or her over-the-top style, but when I think of Bayonetta I can't help but imagine her as a popstar. Bayonetta 3 feels like her Las Vegas residency: a lavish and spectacular show where each number is beautifully choreographed, every song is a banger, and the guest appearances are sure to delight. It’s a fast-paced and joyous adventure that achieves its goals with an abundance of charisma and style. While it might have taken the better part of a decade to get here, the queen is back, and she's ready to serve.
The Winters' Expansion includes Shadows of Rose, the first piece of story DLC for Resident Evil Village, which picks up 16 years after that game concluded and introduces Ethan Winters' teenage daughter, Rose, as a playable character. Rose has unique powers at her disposal that make her feel distinct from the many other protagonists in Resident Evil's long history, but it's the shift to a third-person perspective--along with changes in pacing, style, and tone--that set Shadows of Rose apart from Village's main campaign. It's more comparable to the recent Resident Evil remakes than either of Ethan Winters' misadventures, but for as much as I adore those games, I'm hopeful this switch isn't indicative of the series' future.
Shadows of Rose begins with the discovery that Rose's powers have blighted her formative years. The narrative is light on details regarding how her powers manifest, but sweating a white substance is enough reason for spiteful classmates to mercilessly bully her for being "different." Rose just wants to be a normal kid and rid herself of these debilitating abilities, so when she's offered the chance to find a cure she jumps at it with little hesitation. However, attaining said cure requires her to enter the consciousness of the Megamycete. This fungal root is not only responsible for the Mold and Rose's powers, but any humans who made physical contact with it have had their memories absorbed and stored within. This conceit allows for some fun surprises and also lets Capcom revisit iconic locations from Village's story, albeit with a few key differences.
The first locale you're dropped back into is Castle Dimitrescu. The resident Lady of the house is absent this time around, but the castle walls are now inhabited by a villainous version of Ethan's merchant ally, The Duke, who gleefully dispatches his own creatures to snuff Rose out. These grotesque monstrosities are similar in design to the Molded from Resident Evil 7, except they have a nasty habit of sucking Rose's face off whenever they get ahold of her. To combat these Face Eaters, Rose is aided by an unseen entity called Michael who can only communicate by conjuring written words that appear floating in mid-air and on various surfaces. Michael manifests a pistol early on, and he'll provide you with ammunition and healing items from time to time, as well as providing hints on where to go next. His presence is more crucial to the story than the moment-to-moment gameplay, but the floating words add a fun wrinkle to chase scenes as it feels like you're being guided by an omniscient being.
Despite Michael's aid, killing a Face Eater quickly burns through your finite pistol ammo, even if your headshot aim is true. The shambling eyesores soak up bullets, and although accurate hits slow them down, fighting a Face Eater never feels particularly satisfying, due in part to the fact they all share the same canned death animation. The delightful pop that so often accompanies fatal headshots in Village's main campaign is notably absent, so combat has a tame aura that wasn't present before.
Fortunately, one of your first tasks is to awaken a power that lets Rose focus on an enemy and freeze them in place for a few seconds. Using this ability is limited just like your ammo, but it gives you the chance to unload some lead on an easy target or use the opportunity to run away, adding a slim layer of strategy to some encounters. Freezing enemies isn't the most exciting of powers, but it gives you a rare advantage over your foes and livens up the stale combat a tad. Being able to halt the Face Eaters' progress is also key because the slow, deliberate pacing of Ethan's trip to Castle Dimitrescu has been replaced by a chaotic dash through the castle's halls. The layout is identical in both cases, but familiar paths have now been altered by the presence of undulating pools of black Mold that funnel you down specific routes. This makes navigating much more linear than before, but Shadows of Rose's frantic pacing makes the castle feel somewhat fresh again.
However, much of the DLC doesn’t offer a lot to get excited about beyond this. There's some light puzzle-solving in other locations, a few jump scares, and any interesting themes in Rose’s story are only ever explored on the surface level. Resident Evil is known for being campy and over-the-top in regard to its storytelling, so this shouldn't be surprising, but it's still disappointing that it doesn't delve deeper into some of the subjects it briefly alludes to. In a similar vein, a lot of what is there is never really explained, and the story feels very rushed, which could be a byproduct of its brief three-hour playtime. Mostly, Shadows of Rose is just forgettable.
Despite its short length, it's also a shame that Rose's powers don't evolve until a final boss battle that drags on for far too long. The second half of the DLC is mostly devoid of combat, so they don't have a chance to, but the earlier sections could've been improved by introducing a few more wrinkles to Rose's repertoire, especially since her arsenal consists of a decidedly weak pistol and shotgun combo. Some situations call for stealth but sneaking around is complicated by a frustrating element of trial and error. Trying to position yourself behind cover and keep track of enemies with the third-person camera is a tad cumbersome, mainly because the controls aren't quite fluid enough. This was never an issue when hiding from Lady Dimitrescu, so it comes across as one of the few areas where the over-the-shoulder perspective feels detrimental.
Aside from Shadows of Rose, the Winters' Expansion also adds a third-person mode to Village's main campaign. It works well for the most part, although it is a bit jarring when cutscenes and certain animations transition back to first-person. I would still recommend the original perspective for those playing Village for the first time, but third-person offers a significant deviation for those wanting a different kind of atmosphere when revisiting the game again.
The other new additions concern The Mercenaries mode, which adds a couple of new stages and a few more characters to its score-based, time-attack action. Chris Redfield is unlocked from the very start and comes equipped with a different arsenal of firearms than Ethan. The most notable difference between the two, however, is Chris's boulder-punching fists. Get close enough to an enemy and you can land a pair of devastating punches that explode heads in a shower of blood. Kill enough enemies and you'll fill up Chris's Onslaught Gauge, which, when filled, lets you deal more damage, move faster, and utilize a Target Locator to unleash an explosive blast from the heavens.
Karl Heisenberg and his massive hammer is one of the other new playable characters, diversifying the roster further with a slow but powerful melee build. Smashing enemies into a pulp with his signature makeshift weapon is always a good time, but you can also use his electromagnetic powers to gather debris and launch it as a deadly shrapnel projectile. You can also do the same with a sawblade as though you're visiting Half-Life 2’s Ravenholm, and even summon one of his hulking robot zombies to rush any nearby lycans.
However, the best of the new characters is, of course, Lady Dimitrescu herself. The gigantic mistress of Castle Dimitrescu slices through enemies with her grisly talons, unleashes a swarm of bugs to devour her foes, and even crushes enemies by throwing vanity tables at them. Similarly to Chris, she has a Thrill Meter that can be filled to deal more damage and increase her movement speed. She can also summon her daughters to help out in a pinch. Each of the new characters adds more variety to The Mercenaries with their distinctive playstyles and transforms it into a mode that's worth sinking your teeth into.
Shadows of Rose might be the most notable part of the Winters' Expansion, but it's The Mercenaries that provides the most bang for your buck. Rose's tale is an uneven and brief continuation of the Winters family story. It successfully makes familiar locations feel fresh again but doesn't do quite enough with Rose's powers to elevate its action or make the experience feel worthwhile. The switch back to a third-person perspective is noteworthy, and its inclusion as an optional way to play Resident Evil Village is a boon for those thinking of replaying the game. The new additions to The Mercenaries make the Winters' Expansion worth it, though, and while Shadows of Rose has its moments, it doesn't pack enough engaging material into its short timeframe to wholly recommend returning to the eponymous village.
This rebooted version of Task Force 141 features Price and the familiar faces of Simon "Ghost" Riley, Kyle "Gaz" Garrick, and John "Soap" MacTavish. However, Modern Warfare 2 introduces a new ally with Colonel Alejandro Vargas of the Mexican Special Forces. While this is a different story than 2009's Modern Warfare 2, it does reintroduce General Shepherd from the original campaign. Modern Warfare 2019's Kate Laswell and the PMC group known as Shadow Company all make a return as well.
Playing as members of Task Force 141, you are put to the test when a United States airstrike kills Al-Qatala leader General Ghorbrani, whose successor, Hassan Zyani, vows revenge and teams up with an international drug cartel to transport stolen U.S. ballistic missiles. Hassan plans to launch the missiles against United States targets and it falls upon Task Force 141 to stop this from happening. The campaign is a globe-trotting affair, sending you to fight in places like Amsterdam, Mexico, Chicago, and even parts of Al Mazrah, the fictional setting of Warzone 2.0's map. This gives a refreshing variety to the scenery from mission to mission, with nighttime stealth ops, desert battles, a prison break, and even an oil rig set piece that feels like a throwback to the original Modern Warfare 2's The Only Easy Day...Was Yesterday mission, without being a remake of it.
Modern Warfare 2 offers a bit more personality to the characters you play and fight alongside than in past games, as there are now dialogue options to speak to your fellow soldiers and ask questions. In the mission Recon By Fire, I could have Gaz make some small talk, and I chose to chat with Kate Laswell, which helped humanize the characters a little more. This is totally optional and you can choose to say nothing, but it's nice to have an extra layer of dialogue. I really enjoyed the chit-chat between gunfights, and it breathes more life into side characters who could easily fall flat. For example, Kate mentions her wife, a martial status that didn't seem to be revealed in the last game. There were also some lighthearted bro moments with Soap and Ghost during the quiet moments of an otherwise very serious survival mission.
Farah, a character introduced in Modern Warfare 2019, resurfaces as an ally in Violence and Timing, but it's a bit disappointing that she doesn't play more of a role in the campaign, especially since she was last seen teamed up with Price for Modern Warfare's post-launch story in Warzone. She was featured in the fight alongside Price as he slowly helped reassemble Task Force 141, which indicated that she would be a new addition to Price's force, but this doesn’t come to pass, sadly. However, Alejandro feels like a good addition to Captain Price's ever-growing team of allies. When he's recruited as Task Force 141's guide through Mexico, you quickly learn he's a man willing to risk everything to protect his fictional city of Las Almas from the corruption of the cartel, thus being the perfect guy to help you get the stolen missiles out of cartel hands. The writers do a good job of showing Alejandro's emotion through scenes of interrogating a former ally turned enemy, and he's easily a character you start to care about when shit hits the fan, and I'd welcome his return to the franchise if future stories permitted.
Without giving anything away, Modern Warfare 2's quest to locate the missiles and stop the terrorists is filled with twists and betrayal just like the original Modern Warfare 2. Infinity Ward does a solid job balancing the nostalgia of the original series, while also giving a brand-new and engaging narrative.
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 features 17 campaign missions, and these range from large-scale, movie-style action set pieces to dialed-back stealth sessions. It's pretty much everything you'd expect from a Call of Duty campaign. There's really not much added in terms of major innovation here to really wow you, but the missions pack a lot of fun and nostalgia as the campaign features several classic Modern Warfare missions with new twists. The game also provides some missions that feel more open-world than we've seen in the past, giving you more opportunities to explore different tactics for a fight. Some stealth missions let you scour the area for the perfect sniper point to line up a collateral kill, while other just give you multiple pathways to decide how you want to attack or sneak past your enemies. This freedom isn't as vast as playing an open-world RPG, but the added exploration and opportunities is a welcome change to Call of Duty's usual led-by-the-hand campaign style.
For example, the mission Close Air is very similar to Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare's Death From Above mission with the player-controlled AC-130 gunship sequence. In Close Air, you play as members of Shadow Company, who are providing air support in the AC-130 for Ghost, Soap, and Alejandro. This was a fan-favorite mission in Modern Warfare, and Close Air provides an experience that's just as satisfying as you destroy whole buildings with the power of the AC-130.
Another called Recon By Fire is very reminiscent of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare's iconic All Ghillied Up stealth mission. What sets apart Modern Warfare 2's version is the improvements in AI. You can no longer memorize enemy movement patterns and hide accordingly, as enemy soldiers more dynamically search the area for you, and they will spot you much easier than in past games. I criticized Modern Warfare 2's advanced AI in the multiplayer beta, but the campaign's enemy NPCs proved to be a much greater adversary. Unfortunately, I can't say your AI allies are quite as capable, so expect to do most of the work in taking down enemies.
Vehicle chase sequences are a staple of Call of Duty campaigns, and Modern Warfare 2 has one of my favorites. Violence and Timing is another instance of Modern Warfare 2 eschewing the usual linear feel of these missions in CoD games to offer variety and player choice. The mission hits a few fun and over-the-top moments, with a satisfying vehicle chase, a brief period of hanging upside down from an aircraft while in gunfights, and vehicle hijack shenanigans.
Part of the fun in Violence and Timing stems from Modern Warfare 2's new maneuvering mechanics, which give you the ability to quickly swap seats in a vehicle and even stand on the roof of cars to hop over and hijack an enemy's ride. All of these actions let you choose how you want to accomplish the mission. You can opt to stay in one vehicle, assuming it doesn't get demolished during the skirmish, or you can hop from one hijacked vehicle to another as you work your way through the enemy convoy. It's a level of dynamism that injects greater thrills into a sequence that is already a high-octane blockbuster set-piece.
While the game features mostly the same equipment as previous years, Modern Warfare 2 adds a new crafting layer to the game. Some missions require you to do some light scavenging to craft tools and weapons such as mines, smoke bombs, shivs, and a pry tool, which is used to open locked crates and doors. Finding supplies to craft pry tools does get a bit tedious after the first few times, and I sometimes wished I could just Incredible Hulk my way through more doors. Nevertheless, it was more of a minor annoyance than something that ruined the experience and, in its current form, it feels like experimentation for something coming in future Call of Duty content. In terms of brand-new equipment, the game introduces the new snake cam device to slide under a door jam and get enemy visuals from the other side.
As someone who plays all of the Call of Duty campaigns, starting on Regular difficulty and then completing on Veteran, I was surprised to find Regular offered more of a challenge than usual. Even with this default setting, you can die in just a few bullets, but some of my struggles may also be due to the advanced AI in Modern Warfare 2, as in some stealth missions I found that the enemy NPCs spotted me easily no matter how stealthy I tried to play. Although it felt like AI was more intuitive in their searches during stealth missions, there were times where I was confused how the enemy spotted me. Their eagle-eye vision might just be a little too good, to the point where it sometimes felt unfair. I died way more than I ever expected, which was quite a humbling experience.
That increase in difficulty highlighted one of the campaign's biggest issues, which is its handling of checkpoints. These were spread out pretty far in some missions, and I would have to replay a large chunk of a mission all over again if I died, while other missions saved my place at awkward points in the action. Several times I died and respawned right near the enemy who just killed me, and it made for a tough recovery, especially in the stealth missions. Sometimes I respawned only to die almost instantly, and there were times where it seemed I was only able to push forward out of sheer luck.
On PlayStation 5, the graphics were sharp and everything ran smoothly. Your personal experience could vary depending on your platform but I didn't run into any crashes, major bugs, or performance issues. The only weird encounter was during a building-clearing section in the Recon By Fire mission, where it took a while to find the remaining enemies to reach a checkpoint because all of the soldiers were stuck inside some crates that served as room decor.
The success of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2019 left big shoes for the sequel to try and fill, but overall, Modern Warfare 2 is a strong successor. In an early preview of Modern Warfare 2, I wasn't impressed with the new maneuverability mechanics, nor did expect the changes to make such an impact on the game. However, I was pleasantly surprised with how much I enjoyed the freedom to tackle scenarios in my own way, including all the carjacking. The variety of locations from mission to mission also ensured there was never a dull moment. My time with Modern Warfare 2 and Task Force 141 was a blast, and truly feels like Infinity Ward created this campaign as a greatest hits list for the series. My surprise enjoyment of the added open-world set pieces and new maneuverability gives me hope that these elements of freedom may become more of a staple for the franchise, and that’s a future for Call of Duty that I can get behind.
Against all odds, Mario + Rabbids: Kingdom Battle was a charmingly weird success, fusing Nintendo mega-star mascot Mario with Ubisoft's less-than-inspiring little rabbit oddballs and throwing them into a turn-based strategy game, of all things. It was an open question then whether Ubisoft, which took the lead on the project, would be able to capture the ineffable Nintendo magic while borrowing some of the company's most iconic characters. With that question now answered, Mario + Rabbids: Sparks of Hope sets its sights higher, managing to not only be a surprisingly good Mario spin-off, but legitimately be better than some of Nintendo's own recent games starring the plucky plumber.
Like the original, Mario + Rabbids: Sparks of Hope is very strange. It occupies a parallel version of the Mushroom Kingdom where Mario and his friends casually socialize with their Rabbid doppelgangers, and where many of them are packing heat--albeit in an abstract, bubblegum package. The Rabbids are a little obnoxious and off-putting, but Mario and his friends seem too polite to say anything. When they discover a Spark, a new life form that is obviously a Rabbid fused with one of Rosalina's Lumas, they immediately know something must be wrong because Rosalina would never allow that to happen to her babies. The implicit acknowledgement that being a Rabbid mutant is a terrible fate got a good chuckle out of me right from the jump.
This is indicative of how Ubisoft approaches the overall tone: reverent and respectful of Mario lore, such as it is, while cheeky and self-aware about its own Rabbids creations. Mario and his friends are video game royalty, and its cast includes a literal space goddess. The Rabbids were always made to be annoying; that was sort of the joke. These are not the same, and the game knows it, juxtaposing the two against one another to surprising comedic effect.
The existential strangeness extends beyond the characters themselves, of course. This is a turn-based strategy game, similar to other tactical series like XCOM but just barely recognizable in this presentation, where positioning your forces and choosing when to take cover or press your advantage is key. This time, though, the positioning gets a massive upgrade with the addition of free movement. Where Kingdom Battle used a grid-based movement system, Sparks of Hope lets you run around the environment almost as naturally as you would in any Mario platformer, complete with its familiar feeling of momentum.
This seemingly minor change has a huge impact on how the game handles, making it feel smooth and dynamic. You can move around as much as you'd like until you lock in place by performing an attack command, and within those boundaries is a liberating degree of freedom. You can slide-attack into enemies, organize a chain of jumps off the shoulders of your teammates, or even just double back if you think better of your positioning choices. The ability to swap between your party members means you can go back and forth between movement and action phases with incredible ease. It all feels so natural that I usually didn't even mind the lack of a jump button, heretical as that may be for a game that feels this much like a Mario platformer.
The other major gameplay enhancement comes from the titular Sparks themselves. These are swappable equipment types, granting the ability to outfit your troops with special abilities. These can range from major elemental attacks to area-of-effect buffs, or even more unusual traits.
Luigi is specced as a sniper, with the longest range and increased damage for faraway shots. I equipped him with Ethering, a Spark that lets you trigger a temporary cloaking device. This felt like a natural fit for him--Luigi's bow grows weaker when enemies close the gap and approach him, so turning invisible allowed him to better stay out of the fray and at a distance where he can deal the most damage. But I also found it useful for more than just attacking: The cloaking allowed Luigi to bypass smaller enemies to get a better vantage point for a high-priority target during boss battles. And when the goal was simply to stay alive, cloaking for a couple of turns bought me invaluable time to run out the clock.
Bowser, meanwhile, is best at mid-range, so he got Exosphere, a Spark that allows him to boost defense in an area-of-effect. Mario, as my de facto team leader, got Starburst to boost everyone's attack, and Oozer Master to generate a slime creature that effectively added an AI-controlled companion to our ranks. As in the best tactical combat games, some battles are lost and won in the decisions you make between rounds, as you tinker with different Spark combinations and plan how they can augment your strengths or limit your deficiencies. It's a flexible system that makes your decisions feel impactful while remaining simple and understandable, like a Mario game should be.
There is much more variety when it comes to exploring the world outside of combat as well. While Kingdom Battle's overworld was colorful enough and looked the part of the Mushroom Kingdom, it was essentially a straight path and not very interesting to explore. Sparks of Hope addresses this head-on, with five open planets full of environmental puzzles and optional mini-battles. Mario almost takes a page from Zelda in these moments, as the puzzles often revolve around positioning a block or managing moving platforms. These puzzles help break up the pace of battle, giving you some cooldown time to focus on a different kind of problem-solving. They can occasionally veer into the tedious, as you might know the solution but have to move a widget back and forth between locations. For the most part, though, they're a welcome change of pace.
The combat is still the bulk of the experience, and it's an excellent refinement on its predecessor. Combat environments are well-designed to take advantage of your movement options, and there's a huge variety of enemies that can be mixed into new combinations of challenges. Sparks of Hope also capitalizes on the flexibility of its combat and Sparks system by presenting lots of different kinds of challenges and boss battles that frequently force you to think through a new approach or plan your movements that much more carefully. There's nothing quite like the a-ha moment of solving a difficult combat puzzle, and this is a game that delivers those moments at a regular pace.
The candy-coated Mario wrapping doesn't come at the expense of its tactical bona fides. But it is still a Mario game at heart, which means it aims to be approachable for players of all skill levels. The standard "Average" difficulty is well-suited to those who have cut their teeth on other tactical games, while the "Relaxing" mode dials it back while still presenting enough challenge for novices and the "Demanding" mode is significantly harder. If that still isn't enough, you can tweak individual settings like how aggressive enemies are, whether health is restored post-battle (and how much, if so), and even one toggle setting to make your characters invulnerable to damage.
All of this is complemented by a story that's funny and even, shockingly, sweet. As the impending Mario movie looms large as an animated take on the classic character, this game shows how you can make a sharp, funny, Saturday morning cartoon out of these characters. When Bowser joins the party he says that the villain, Cursa, stole his army of imbeciles--a laugh-line that actually made me laugh out loud. I often found myself cracking up at the antics of the characters, even the Rabbids. In some cases, especially the Rabbids. I even grew to love the self-consciously serious hero Edge, and not just because her sword-slinging attack was useful in battle and, objectively speaking, badass. But I also felt touched at various moments, at one point even getting misty at its sheer earnest optimism.
Put simply, Mario + Rabbids: Sparks of Hope is an absolute delight. This is a combination that shouldn't work and yet it more than works--it excels. When Ubisoft announced Kingdom Battle, the concept seemed so goofy that its success came as a surprise. Sparks of Hope is an improvement in every meaningful way, from the characterization and world-building to combat variety and flexibility to environmental diversity. Ubisoft loves and respects these characters, and has now shown definitively that even something as familiar and comfortable as Mario is still capable of surprising us over and over again.
The normal people in question are altruistic scientist Anu, her younger adopted brother Octavio, and frozen yogurt shop owner Fran. Anu wants to build a device that can end conflicts nonviolently, much to the chagrin of the weapons manufacturer she works for. Octavio desires respect and fame, seeking an idea for a get-rich start-up business. And Fran desires vengeance upon weapons manufacturer Tediore, whose invasion of the planet of Promethea results in the destruction of her shop. Upon learning the invasion is to acquire a Vault Key and open the Promethean Vault, the trio finds themselves working together to acquire the Vault's treasure before Tediore can claim it, hoping it will be something valuable enough to secure funding for Anu's research and Octavio's dreams, while also depriving Tediore of their goal and netting Fran her revenge.
Most of New Tales from the Borderlands has you making dialogue choices for Anu, Octavio, or Fran, or performing some feat via a quick-time event. Your choices can have a range of consequences--strengthening the relationship between two characters, for example--but their primary effect is repercussions on the story. You can't outright avoid the major narrative beats of each chapter, but you can influence how events transpire to color in your own take on the adventure. Fran is always going to be visited by the insurance agent overseeing her claim of the damage to her shop, for instance, but it's entirely up to the choices you made leading up to and during that encounter that determine whether she gets that payout, and shapes how the agent perceives her going forward. This structure does mean that New Tales from the Borderlands can occasionally feel too scripted--especially near the end of episodes when the story has to guide you towards an unavoidable outcome to set up the next story beat--but it works for the most part, injecting enough player agency into the story to create tangible change in pretty much every event.
Between all the careful decision-making and timed button-pressing, New Tales from the Borderlands opens up into contained areas where you can explore. In these spaces, you can talk to certain characters, scavenge for money to pay for in-game cosmetics, and accomplish optional objectives. Additionally, as Octavio, you can hack into electronics, and as Anu, you can scan important objects or people to learn more about them. There's not much to these moments beyond solving optional puzzles (like hacking minigames) to accomplish side objectives. They do provide a nice reprieve, though, breaking up the action of the plot to give you a chance to breathe. It helps ensure there are several easily-identifiable moments within each episode where you can pause and take a break if you need or want to.
New Tales from the Borderlands opens on a strong note, both in terms of storytelling and humor. It's very clear from the outset that Anu, Octavio, and Fran are not Vault Hunters and are some of the most ill-equipped people to be tackling a venture that's normally handled by women who can bend the fabric of space and time, soldiers who can summon murder mechs, or mutants who can grow stronger by setting themselves on fire. But there's a goofy appeal to each of the protagonists. You can't help but root for these underdogs to somehow, some way succeed. Octavio even grew on me. Is he a tad annoying? Absolutely. But there's a roguish charm to him--I can see why all of his far more competent friends keep him around. He's like that one idiot goofball who everyone loves to make fun of, but also keeps the group dynamic fresh with the occasional wisecrack and is ready to throw down for you at a moment's notice. He's a good guy.
And it helps that he has such a strong narrative arc across New Tales from the Borderlands' five episodes, as do Fran and Anu. New Tales from the Borderlands builds its narrative around the three arcs of its main characters and how they are influencing one another. Anu, for example, abhors violence but finds herself put into more and more situations where violence can be a viable solution for dealing with a problem. Fran, meanwhile, is in the midst of mandatory anger management following a traumatic incident where her rage got the better of her, but the intoxicating feeling of succumbing to her fury regularly encourages her to deal with issues with lethal force. Octavio looks up to the two women equally at the start of the game, and how you shape Anu and Fran can impact how he views the necessity of violence, informing how his narrative arc ultimately plays out.
Those arcs are full of perilous situations where your actions can result in a hefty body count, which can include the main three characters if you're not too careful. I like the risk of such a system, as it adds a nice narrative weight to every situation. Plus, it encourages me to immediately pick up a game like New Tales from the Borderlands again once the credits roll and see how different decisions can influence the outcome. There are a lot of obvious callbacks to your decisions sprinkled throughout the course of New Tales from the Borderlands' story, especially during Episodes 1, 2, and 5. A few moments in the final hour of the game made me have to pause the action and take a few seconds to think back on how I'd arrived at the current situation, cursing myself for choices I'd made hours prior.
My favorite part about New Tales from the Borderlands, however, is how it also leverages mistakes for its narrative. There are some fail-state moments in the game, where making the wrong choice or messing up a quick-time event results in a game over, forcing you to go back to a checkpoint and try again. There are surprisingly few of these, though. Instead, the game largely rewards you for mistakes by injecting fun, optional storylines, keeping the story moving forward.
For example, I really enjoy Anu, Octavio, and Fran's ongoing rivalry with a Tediore soldier who's a passionate fan of collecting and battling with Vaultlanders, which are miniatures of the heroes and villains from the Borderlands games. As far as I can tell, the trio can only meet this guy if, when you're going through the sewers in Episode 2, you opt for the party to go for stealth and when Octavio tries sneaking up on the guy beneath a Metal Gear-inspired cardboard box, you accidentally (or purposely) fail and get caught. Doing so draws you into a Vaultlanders battle against the soldier, and if you win he will follow you throughout the rest of the story, popping up in the most outrageous places to battle you again and again in order to reclaim his lost honor. It was my favorite ongoing joke of the entire game, even if the Vaultlander combat minigame he wants to play is repetitive and boring.
Even if you don't end up battling the Vaultlander fan, you can still collect the miniatures themselves and find yourself in situations where you battle. The minigame is too simple to really enjoy though, lacking any sense of strategy to make its repetitive turn-based combat compelling. Even if every miniature has its own attack and defense stat, as well as a unique special trait, they all fight in the exact same way: Press the attack button over and over. Doing so allows you to bang your plastic figure against that of your opponents, and whoever runs out of health first, loses. It's so simplistic and easy to get through without suffering any damage or setback, I'm half-convinced that the minigame's inclusion is meant more as a passing joke than a notable part of the gameplay, but either way, it's never a good time.
New Tales from the Borderlands does much better with small throwaway minigames elsewhere, like the aforementioned stealth section under a cardboard box, which also incorporates the fixed camera angles, sound effects, and minimap of the Metal Gear games. There's also a boss battle that's stylized as a pixelated turn-based JRPG that's pretty fun too. And that was the big takeaway from my time with New Tales from the Borderlands--the game features callbacks and Easter eggs, but uses them only as framing devices for its casual and silly humor rather than in place of the humor. It helps make the whole experience feel more relatable and fun, which is already a nice leg-up to the stilted and forced humor of Borderlands 3 and Tiny Tina's Wonderlands. There are moments within New Tales from the Borderlands that feel clever, and the humor starts on a fairly high note. It does dip a bit in Episodes 3 and 4, though.
Episodes 3 and 4 are notably weaker than the rest of the game. They aren't bad, but both lack the narrative momentum of the other three episodes. After setting the stage for its story and kicking off the mystery surrounding an ancient artifact in the early episodes, New Tales from the Borderlands kind of grinds to a halt in the middle of its storyline, which sees Anu, Octavio, and Fran scramble to pull together a business and encounter several mishaps along the way. All this does is get in the way of setting up the big finale, however. I could have done without Borderlands' take on a Shark Tank-inspired TV show or a segment where Anu tries to acquire a dead body. Neither moment adds much to the story as a whole, besides fleshing out Episodes 3 and 4 so that they match the length of the other three. It felt like the one moment where the episodic nature of the game was actively holding the experience back.
The game is saved by a strong conclusion, though. Almost every choice you have to make in that final episode is informed by choices you made in the chapters leading up to it, culminating in a battle against the big bad that can end in substantially different ways. Anu is abruptly thrust into the limelight as the main character in Episode 5, which came as a bit of a surprise to me after the first four episodes did so much to encourage me to think of all three main characters as the protagonists, but I think it works for the better. It's hard to adequately explain without going into too much detail and potentially spoiling how the game ends, but Anu's arc is all about her quest to make the galaxy a safer place and it culminates with what is essentially the trolley problem, an ethical dilemma of the many vs. the few that has existed at the heart of the Borderlands franchise since its beginning. It is a fitting way to conclude New Tales from the Borderlands, which occurs one year after the events of the Borderlands trilogy and pushes into what's presumably a new age for the series.
New Tales from the Borderlands manages to accomplish many of the narrative highs of its predecessor by providing a glimpse into how normal, everyday people handle the outrageous going-ons of the Borderlands series. The story is helped along by the narrative arcs of its three main characters, each of which feeds into and builds on one another. The narrative momentum stalls mid-way through the story, but New Tales from the Borderlands manages to finish strong, delivering a charmingly fun space western adventure.
Batman is dead. With so few words, Gotham Knights is instantly intriguing. What does Gotham look like without its Dark Knight perched over the rotten city? What do his nemeses--many of whom exist in some way because Batman did--do without him? Most importantly, what impact does his death have on Robin, Batgirl, Nightwing, and Red Hood, the so-called Bat-family? Their leader's sudden demise leaves a massive hole in the heart of Gotham, and Gotham Knights is the story of sidekicks stepping out from his shadow. Although the new guard fares well from a narrative standpoint, the gameplay systems built to serve their 30-hour campaign to reclaim Gotham let the team down.
This isn't an Arkham game, though Gotham Knights does use the beloved series as a jumping-off point. In a totally open-world version of Gotham City, the Bat-family will still spend much of their time swooping down on enemies from gargoyles overhead and chain attacks with stylish combat moves as they dispatch packs of gangsters. They'll still crawl through vents to get the drop on baddies who are feeling empowered by Batman's sudden departure. The open world is also structurally familiar in the way it carries the player through the game. It is full of icons ranging from main story beats to one-off time trials and challenges, so at first glance this version of Gotham doesn't seem all that different from other versions of it, or other open-world games for that matter.
Though it looks the part, with its stark class divide, constant crime sprees, and neo-noirish intentions, patrolling the urban sprawl is sadly a chore. Because Gotham Knights trades the tried-and-true action-adventure roots of recent Batman games for a loot-focused brawler, the cadence of action foregoes compelling storylines that complement the main campaign for rote and repetitive street brawls that reward you with crafting resources. The game starts really strong, with several authored story missions that feel nearly as big and bold as you'd expect, given the last 15 years of Gotham-set games. After that intro, however, the game settles into unremarkable and unfilling gameplay loops driven by awkward games-as-a-service design principles.
This is most evident in how each character's unique traversal tool and fourth skill tree is unlocked as part of their Knighthood challenges. Batgirl glides, Nightwing has a mechanical drone, and so on. But you can't use any of those items until you complete 10 Premeditated Crimes with each hero. These are merely scattered street crimes found around the city and repopulated constantly. The issue won't be a shortage of them, but rather a lack of intrigue around any of them. To unlock these Premeditated-class street crimes, you have to find clues by first completing smaller, quicker street crimes. Almost immediately, this chain of events gets boring: Spam street crimes where enemies number around a half-dozen to unlock bigger versions of, essentially, the same content.
You'll want to get these out of the way quickly to earn the unlocks waiting for you, so after a hot start including a memorable scene where Harley Quinn is taunting the heroes while almost grieving Batman, it soon descends into hours of completing 40 forgettable side missions, all built on a procedurally-generated mission structure that varies slightly in objective but never in practice: Go here, beat up anyone glowing red in your augmented reality vision mode, complete any additional objectives or challenges to get bonus experience, and you're done. If I were being charitable I could argue that this is a realistic portrayal of Gotham. It would be exhausting to patrol such a relentlessly troubled city each and every night, knowing there's really no end in sight, no grand reward for your efforts. But that likely wasn't the intention, and it doesn't make a good video game.
Worse, once you have those Knighthood challenges completed, you'll still bump up against these forgettable side missions frequently. Boss storylines are level-gated so you can't quickly see the end of any questline, and to level up in between major boss missions, you'll often be doing more of these street crimes. Meanwhile, iconic characters like The Penguin and Lucius Fox are made to be nothing more than immobile quest-givers doling out missions that are more like basic challenges to earn a new suit blueprint or a mess of crafting resources. Becoming Gotham City's watchful protector should be a meaningful journey for the characters and the players controlling them, but it rarely amounts to feeling like anything more than busywork.
Boss battles are where excitement should be expected, but there are too few of them and they lack the variety and ingenuity of past showdowns, even in developer WB Montreal's past Bat-effort. Aside from the main storyline that heavily involves The League of Shadows and The Court of Owls, you'll do battle with Harley, Clayface, and Mr. Freeze. Each of these questlines is started very early on in the game, so it was a surprise when no more appeared before the credits rolled. I'd have less of an issue with this number if the final battles within each of them were more diverse or interesting, but they each inevitably devolve into an arena battle against a damage-spongey villain and maybe an intermittent horde of goons. There's nothing memorable about any of them.
Although there are a sparse number of puzzles to solve in addition to the meager amount of bosses to fell, combat is the game's central system that everything is built upon. You'll be driving, gliding, or sprinting around the streets and off the rooftops of the city each night, looking for heads to crack. Like the mission design and writing, combat initially makes a strong impression by being distinct from previous Batman games. The problem, however, is it fails to evolve as the game goes on.
It swaps out the active counter-heavy model for something more RPG-like, where cooldowns and a "Momentum" meter lord over your capabilities, and it can look cool for a while. You'll stylishly take down foes of a few different classes, like big brutes with shields or molotov-tossing ne'er-do-wells, but rather than Arkham's very defensive-minded combat, where you systemically had an answer to everything thrown your way, here it's more about keeping the pressure on and always hitting something--it's the difference between action and reaction. It emphasizes the Momentum meter over the actual learned techniques that Batman must've taught the foursome, and seemingly all in the name of being an RPG that demands sturdy enemies who can't be dispatched with the same ease that Batman has shown before.
None of these characters are Batman, so them being more acrobatic, like Nightwing, or bone-crushing, like Red Hood, is a fine change of pace aesthetically. But as it plays out, it reveals a lack of variety. Moves look different for each character, but the button presses you'll perform nearly follow the same script the whole game no matter who you are. Each character's unique special moves are the only thing that really separates the heroes from each other.
The Court of Owls, perhaps the biggest and most beloved new addition to the Batman mythos in a long time, fails to live up to the potential of its comic book source material. In the comics, the Court is a creepy, ever-present threat whose existence is up for debate; merely whispering about them could get you killed, or so say the dark nursery rhymes. That element of the villainous secret society is touched on here, but it all feels like lip service via a few lines of dialogue that aren't supplemented by what is shown. In practice, the Court feels like any other faction of enemies, especially when you so often come across them taking part in street crimes, thereby totally neglecting the cabal's most important characteristic: their working from the shadows.
That's not to say WB Montreal misunderstands its cast of characters. Although the Court is narratively fumbled, the game's brightest spot is certainly its foursome of heroes. Batgirl, Red Hood, Robin, and Nightwing are handed the keys to the city without warning, and they're not sure how to fill Batman's boots. As you progress, you'll unlock character cutscenes in their base of operations, the Belfry, or out in the city. Tonally, these are very often somber and serious, and help characterize the heroes as the grieving, unsure group of orphans they have essentially become. These moments are my favorite scenes in the game. Batman meant something different to each of them, and the writing captures this excellently. For example, Robin is grieving the loss of an idealized version of Bruce, while Nightwing's relationship was more complicated and not always amicable, which leaves him feeling oddly conflicted.
Their emotional and personal growth is a rare bright spot in Gotham Knights, and their mechanical growth is also well-considered. Leveling up and playing with any one of them unlocks the same skill points for the others, which invites mixing in time with each of them. Swapping between characters doesn't just give you a new skill tree; it gives you a new perspective on this larger-than-life figure who has loomed over each of them for years, and is now suddenly and irreversibly absent. It lands as hard as intended, and it's compelling to see them pick up the pieces and grow together.
That growing together is best done in co-op, where the game can be played with one other person. Although the lack of a four-player mode sticks out, playing with a friend is still a more enjoyable experience. This version of Gotham is not its best rendition, but it is massive and benefits from the basic video game truth that most everything is better in co-op. Gotham Knights smartly accounts for co-op play in a number of ways, too. Main story progress follows the host's lead, so opening the map as either player will reveal the host's current to-do list.
However, anything the second player does carries over into their native saved data, including gear they've found and even story missions they've completed. If you join a friend for a while, then revert back in the campaign on your own save, you'll have the option to skip and get credit for missions you've already completed in co-op. This is a great detail that too few of these co-op-optional games overlook, so even though Gotham Knights isn't a great game in most respects, it does at least reveal a better path forward for games like it.
It's too bad the city isn't more exciting, because with a welcome lack of co-op tethering, the head-canon of figuratively carving the city in half, each person declaring a territory and saying "Good luck, see you in the morning" could be a really fun way to role-play as these heroes. Instead, there's little reason to separate, as the peripheral content is so rote that you'll want to only do what's required of you to unlock the next major story beat, nothing more.
There's even a peculiar lack of endgame content. Normally these loot-centric games are built on the long haul, but here the game has all the markings of a loot grind without any purpose to perform it. If my gear is good enough to beat the final boss--and it was--then what incentive do I have to keep playing to improve that gear? I suspect the forthcoming four-player co-op Heroic Assault mode launching in late November may better answer this question, but waiting five weeks to go back to a game that isn't very good in the first place isn't in my plans.
By the end, the project as a whole feels a bit compromised, and instead of feeling the triumphant journey of iconic heroes, the lasting impression is one of a difficult development cycle. The sudden cancellation of the last-gen versions was perhaps the first sign, but more appear as you play. This includes a lack of a 60fps support on consoles, frame drops in solo or multiplayer, and an oddly high number of hidden loading screens. It feels old already, even as it can still look quite lovely when perched high above the city as its tireless guardian. Under the hood, I suspect this game is chugging along to make ends meet. It certainly feels that way to play it.
Gotham Knights acts as more of a cautionary tale than the logical next step for this storied universe. For a long time no one knew how to make a compelling Batman game, and then we got four of them in seven years. Taking what worked before while seeking to evolve it is admirable, but the obsession over loot is ill-conceived, cynical, and tasteless. It feels as though volume of content is given precedence over meaningful content, and for those that might enjoy the grind, the endgame's absence will be noticeable.
It's these rinse-and-repeat objectives that feel like they're made to fill time and push the loot that ultimately hamper the experience more than any other misstep. The game seems built to serve an almighty hours-played statistic that has lately felt frighteningly ubiquitous. Strong character work and a well-considered co-op experience can't save all that ails Gotham Knights, leaving this experience neither the one fans deserve, nor the one they need right now.
Naughty Dog is one of the most recognizable names on PlayStation hardware, and the roaring success of its Uncharted franchise across two generations of the console plays a large part in that legacy. It makes sense then that the studio's first full release for the PlayStation 5 celebrates that storied history, bringing two of the series' best entries to new hardware with a suite of improvements that make experiencing the treasure-hunting adventures a pleasure again. Although some of the underlying design choices are showing some age, the Legacy of Thieves Collection is the best way to play Uncharted 4: A Thief's End and Uncharted: Lost Legacy.
Across both games, the most significant changes are clear to see in the game's three modes of play. Fidelity mode targets a native 4K presentation, with the frame rate aiming for a locked 30fps(and sticking there for pretty much every scene). The new performance mode, which is likely the best way to play, reduces the resolution to 1440p but doubles the frame rate to 60fps, which it easily maintains for much more responsive gameplay. A third mode, Performance+, cuts the resolution even more, with a native 1080p presentation and a frame rate that aims for 120fps. You'll need a display that supports that in the first place, and even then, it's a tough concession to make visually for added fluidity that's not really required for the narrative-focused adventures that this collection contains.
What the additional horsepower of the PS5 offers, then, is choice, which wasn't present with the original releases on both the PS4 and PS4 Pro. Both Uncharted 4 and Lost Legacy have been playable on PS5 through backwards compatibility, but have been frustratingly locked to the same 30fps cap as the PS4 versions in both respective campaigns. The higher frame rates for both were reserved for their respective multiplayer modes, which aren't included in this Legacy of Thieves Collection anyway.
The improved performance dramatically enhances both games, especially when balancing resolution and overall frame rate. The Performance mode lets the distinctly detailed levels and picturesque backdrops maintain their eye-catching allure, while the moment-to-moment action feels better than ever with the higher frame rate. Uncharted's occasionally sluggish shooting feels snappy and responsive, and I found myself able to quickly clear enemy encounters with more confidence than I did playing the originals. How much this influences your decision for a replay is subjective, but it's a fantastic way to experience both games for the first time.
It's in replaying Uncharted 4 specifically where the game's slow but measured opening hours become a bit difficult to overlook, especially when the narrative surprises that they build toward are dulled for players who've seen them already. Admiring the game's ability to make use of improved hardware only goes so far when you're trundling atop the roofs as a young Nathan Drake or going through the motions of a prison escape that's meant to set up the core conflict of the sequel. It's a story that benefits so heavily from initial surprises that revisiting them doesn't offer the same impact, which you need to keep in mind when considering that this upgrade isn't free. This won't apply if you're coming to Uncharted 4 for the first time, and the time since its release hasn't made its subtle shift in overall tone and climatic finale to Drake's story any less impactful.
Unlike other publishers, Sony has committed to the increased $70 retail price of its PS5 games, and thus Legacy of Thieves requires either a full purchase or a $10 upgrade fee if you own either Uncharted 4 or Lost Legacy on PS4. It can be a frustrating fee to pay, especially when you consider that The Last of Us 2, Naughty Dog's latest game, received a free patch to unlock the game's frame rate on PS5 last year. Thankfully, you only need to own one to get access to the entire collection, which might come in handy if you jumped into the final chapter in Nathan Drake's story but missed out on the stellar side-story starring Chloe Fraser and Uncharted 4 antagonist, Nadine Ross. Given that numerous other games have seen similar upgrades without the same charge, you might find it difficult to be comfortable with the surcharge, but at the very least, you're getting both games with just a single purchase.
If you did miss out on Lost Legacy the first time or are returning to it again, it doesn't suffer nearly as much from age as Uncharted 4 does. Taking all the new additions from Uncharted 4 (the small, open hub areas and the inclusion of a grappling hook), Lost Legacy tightens up the pacing and reduces the overall length, both of which make its story punchier and its flow more exhilarating. It's still a sizable adventure, clocking in at around 10 hours, but the pace at which set-pieces arrive and resolve–never mind the much brisker opening–make it a more suitable way to experience these new technical enhancements if you are just looking for a sample as opposed to a time-consuming replay of Uncharted 4.
Outside of the additional visual flair, The Legacy of Thieves collection also adds support for both the PS5 DualSense and the console's 3D audio. The enhancements on the DualSense should be unsurprising, with the adaptive triggers offering some resistance for weapons and the controller's vibration adding a lot more granularity than the DualShock 4. While not novel anymore, the work Naughty Dog has done with these features still feels premium, with some of the best adaptive trigger tuning I've experienced yet on the console. The most impressive enhancement, however, is the one that 3D audio provides. There's just so much more you can pinpoint in Uncharted's levels with this setting on, down to the gentle ping that Drake's grappling hook makes against his belt when he's moving or climbing. It's, again, one of the best examples of this technology, making it stand out more than most titles that support it.
There's no question then that you are getting a vastly superior way to play both of the PlayStation 4's Uncharted entries, afforded by the more powerful hardware of the new generation of consoles. The upgrades are in line with what many other games from other publishers are putting out for free for players, but the upgrade structure here does allow you to grab both games for a small fee even if you only own one. That softens the blow somewhat, but it's a factor to consider if you've already experienced both games, with Uncharted 4 faring worse with its extremely slow opening when played through again. These are still both exceptional games, made better by more powerful hardware, making it an easy recommendation if you've missed them over the years.
Uncharted: Legacy of Thieves Collection makes a graceful transition from PlayStation 5 to PC, with Iron Galaxy helming development duties. The port includes support for all the regular PC staples, including widescreen monitors and keyboard and mouse controls. Uncharted and its gameplay flow was designed for controllers, and it still feels that way, but it's entirely serviceable if you choose to forgo that option on PC. If you happen to use a DualSense controller, you'll be treated to the same rumble and adaptive trigger support featured on the PS5, although you will still need to have the controller plugged in to get the latter. Xbox controller support is great too, with the correct assets used for input prompts.
Performance on our machine (featuring a RTX 3080 Ti, AMD Ryzen 5600X, and 32GB of DDR4-3200 RAM) was great, with the game defaulting to its highest preset and maintaining close to 100fps at 1440p. There's support for both FSR (handy for Intel and AMD GPUs) as well as Nvidia's proprietary DLSS, which improved performance as expected when active. Each of the game's lush environments was packed with details, although that shouldn't be surprising given how handsome it already is on PS5. There aren't any PC-exclusive visual features, such as ray tracing, so don't expect a drastic improvement such as the one Spider-Man Remastered received on that front.
With this being the first instance of Uncharted on PC, it is somewhat strange that half of the collection is a conclusion to a story you might not have had a chance to experience. Uncharted 4: A Thief's End hinges on the action of its titular hero, Nathan Drake, during the previous three adventures, using them as a point of examination as it picks apart his shortcomings. There are so many characters throughout that the game expects you to be familiar with, which will be jarring if this is your first experience with the series. If you are familiar with his prior escapades (or don't mind doing some additional work to catch yourself up), then Uncharted 4 remains the same compelling adventure it was at launch, if not still feeling slightly too long by the time you wrap things up.
There's a sequence in A Plague Tale: Requiem's fourth chapter where you're forced to flee a literal tsunami of rats. As you jump from one stone rooftop to another, the swarm of plague-infested vermin sweeps through the town below like raging flood waters, toppling over buildings at their foundations and consuming anyone caught in its destructive path. It's a moment of Hollywood spectacle that showcases the remarkable advancements in technology since A Plague Tale: Innocence was released in 2019. Whereas the first game could handle 5,000 rats at any one time, its sequel can populate the screen with a staggering 300,000. This vast multiplication enhances the terrifying and oppressive nature of the series' signature rodents, but moments like this are an outlier; for the most part, Requiem feels very familiar to its predecessor.
Although developer Asobo Studio has supplemented its stealth action gameplay with a few new additions, this sense of familiarity persists throughout the first half of the game. Like Innocence, Requiem puts you in the well-worn shoes of Amicia de Rune, a teenage girl who's tasked with protecting her younger brother, Hugo, as they traverse a plague-stricken, 14th-century France in search of a cure for his mysterious illness. Amicia is armed with a sling that can both kill helmet-less enemies and strike crates of conveniently-placed armor to create a distraction. You also have access to alchemical ammo that can either light fires or snuff them out, letting you navigate through the mischief of light-averse rats and use them to your advantage by shrouding enemies in darkness.
Amicia is a more proficient fighter this time around, so you're able to counter armored enemies after being spotted and leave them stunned for a few seconds. If you have a single-use knife handy, you can finish them off with a killing blow, but knives are hard to come by and also double as a tool for opening padlocked workbenches. These hidden stashes are filled with various crafting materials, so I always found it more advantageous to hold onto any knives I could get my hands on rather than wasting them on a single kill. You can also use Amicia's sling to strangle unarmored enemies by catching them unaware from behind. There's an element of risk and reward in doing so, however, since the animation is fairly lengthy and it's not completely quiet.
As a result of Amicia's fragility, most encounters in Requiem demand a stealthy approach, such as sneaking through tall grass, crawling under carts, and throwing pots to divert prying eyes. When you're not utilizing rats to devour the soldiers in your way, this distraction-based stealth isn't the most interesting and hasn't really evolved since Innocence. It makes sense within the context of the game and sells the relentlessness of the situation Amicia and Hugo are in, as the odds are stacked against them, and their entire existence essentially boils down to escaping death over and over again. But the environments you're in are often fairly linear and cramped, so your avenues of approach are severely limited. Unlike the first game, you can at least re-enter stealth after being caught by running away, losing line-of-sight, and hiding, but these early areas don't offer enough space to make this feasible, so restarting the section is usually your best option upon detection.
Fortunately, the game starts to stretch its legs around five hours in, and this also coincides with the introduction of a few more tools and abilities for you to play with. Amicia eventually gains access to a deadly crossbow that can kill most armored enemies with a single bolt. To offset the weapon’s power, ammunition is scarce, so it's not something you'll be using often, but Hugo has a more reliable way of dispatching any enemies in your path: rats. The disease he's afflicted with has gradually deepened his connection with the plague-carrying rodents, giving you the chance to directly control the writhing mass and violently consume those unprotected by light. There's something disturbingly satisfying about watching a mischief of rats wash over people until there's almost nothing left, although controlling them is limited by a gauge that fills with use, putting Hugo's powers out of action for a while once filled.
Amecia and Hugo’s circumstances make it difficult for the pair to trust anyone, but they are often joined on their travels by a number of companions who help out in either stealth or combat. Arnaud, for instance, is a gruff soldier who can be directed to fight enemies with the press of a button. He reliably wins one-on-one duels within a few moves, but he's loud and you'll need to lend a helping hand if he gets surrounded, otherwise he'll die and trigger a game over. Sophia, on the other hand, is a pirate you meet in the latter half of the game. She comes equipped with a shard of glass that can be used to deflect sunlight and set dry grass on fire. This provides a valuable distraction since any soldiers nearby will leave their patrol route to stamp out the small flame.
These new toys add renewed energy and a semblance of strategy to encounters, especially in areas where the game opens up and allows you to navigate past enemies in more ways than one. Aside from offering multiple paths through a section, these larger maps also encourage you to adopt a particular playstyle--which is further incentivized by Requiem's skill system. By opting for the pacifist route, for example, and sneaking past enemies without being spotted or killing anyone, you'll unlock skills geared toward improving your stealth abilities--such as increasing your speed when crouched and dampening the amount of noise you make when moving. If you're aggressive, on the other hand, you'll gain access to abilities including a push that lets you shove enemies into fire or rats, and another that speeds up the amount of time it takes to choke out foes with Amicia's sling. You can mix and match approaches to unlock skills in each category, so there's an element of freedom present in how you shape Amicia's repertoire. If you have your eye on a particular skill, though, it's easy to find yourself compelled to adopt a specific playstyle.
There's also some light puzzle-solving sprinkled throughout that's never too complicated and usually revolves around using various light sources to traverse through rat-infested areas. These moments provide a welcome change of pace, although there are a few too many instances where you need to push carts in order to climb up and reach higher levels, which feels both contrived and archaic. Similarly, there are a number of moments where you're forced into confined combat scenarios where the only way through is by killing everyone in your path. The role these sequences play in Requiem's story is impactful, as it chronicles Amicia's shifting attitude since the first game, and tackles the struggles and guilt she faces with each life she's forced to snuff out. But from a gameplay perspective, they offer little more than frustrating trial and error. Combat isn't especially difficult, but the game likes to punish you in order to underline Amicia's fragility. It feels like there's a correct path through these sequences, and you'll die over and over again until you can figure out what it is.
Missteps like this are disappointing, not least because there's so much to love about Requiem's story and setting. The narrative picks up six months after the first game ended, with Amicia and Hugo traveling to the region of Provence in southern France, bordering the Mediterranean Sea. It's the beginning of summer, so this new setting infuses the game with an abundance of color and vibrancy that wasn't present in the original. It's utterly beautiful at times, with sunkissed fields bursting with the color of lavender and daffodil flowers, bustling markets draped in black and yellow banners, and windswept cliffsides overlooking an incoming thunderstorm. War and the rat-carrying plague are yet to puncture this region of France, so the game takes every opportunity to capture these quiet moments where you're surrounded by the vivacity of life and nature.
At its core, Requiem feels like a game of stark contrasts. The picturesque setting and mesmerizing sights it frequently conjures make the influx of sudden violence all the more impactful, while also adding another element of terror to the darkness of night. You'll enter a town where people are shopping at a florist's stall, or taking in a street performance with exorbitant glee, and witnessing this makes it hit harder when the rats swarm in and leave the bare corpses of those same people in their wake. You see it reflected in Hugo, too, where the innocence of his childhood glee clashes with his harrowing circumstances, whether it's because he's wrestling with his disease and connection with the rats, exploding in anger at the world's cruelty, or struggling to deal with the horrible things he's seen.
Amicia and Hugo's characterization is at the heart of Requiem's story and propels the narrative forward even when it occasionally stumbles. There's a sequence around halfway through where the game's relentless pace slows to a crawl so it can dump a load of exposition. This could've been tightened up and shortened, particularly since the game's last couple of hours feel overly drawn out. These are my only nitpicks with the story, though. The performances across the board are excellent, and I appreciate its authentic portrayal of anxiety and panic attacks as the consequences of their traumatic experiences finally catch up with Amicia. It can seem cruel at times, but Requiem tells a heartrending and powerful tale that's worth seeing through to the end.
This is where that familiarity creeps in again, as the exact same thing can be said of the first game. A Plague Tale: Requiem excels in the same areas its predecessor did. Its stealth-action gameplay is uneven but has at least improved, introducing more tools for you to play around with and expanding in scope to provide more interesting avenues to explore when it comes to traversing past threats both human and rodent alike. The rats are still its most memorable feature, bursting from the floor like geysers and in more numbers than ever before. There's a lot to love in Requiem, even if frustration is an all-too-common bedfellow when it comes to gameplay. There are better stealth games out there, but its unique setting, poignant storytelling, and rat-infested dread make 14th-century France worth returning to.
Scorn is designed to be disgusting. The walls of its labyrinthine halls are constructed with twisting contortions of flesh, and its mechanically complex contraptions are drenched in the blood of discarded carcasses that lay decaying without care. The inspirations of Scorn's aesthetic are familiar but well-implemented, creating an atmosphere of languish and disgust that is maintained throughout. However, disappointingly, Scorn's infuriatingly unbalanced combat, uneven puzzle design, and severely restricted checkpointing make its setting the least off-putting part about it.
Scorn's most immediate impression comes from its aesthetic. This is textbook H.R. Giger, with the artist's flair for biomechanical structures influencing every biome you visit in Scorn. If you've watched Prometheus recently, you'll be quite familiar with the types of interweaving, fleshy layouts that Scorn has in store, with some variety in each new area preventing the presentation from feeling stale. The gratuitous violence and frequent body horror is less impactful, however. There is some initial shock value in seeing your arm mangled as a new key item is seared into it or watching as a parasite latches onto your body to slowly rip out your intestines, but many of these actions are repeated frequently enough that their impact diminishes over Scorn's seven-hour runtime. Scorn's violence isn't memorable; instead it's a disappointing departure from the well-crafted horror of its inspirations, wasting the potential of its alluring aesthetic.
Exploration and puzzles are at the core of Scorn's gameplay loop. You'll explore a handful of different constrained biomes during each of the game's five acts, all of which are large, multi-step puzzles made up of small ones that must be solved in a specific order. Most solutions come about through simple exploration; each space has multiple areas for you to poke around in but usually only one correct path to follow, meaning you'll regularly come across multiple dead ends before arriving at the correct route to take. Interactive consoles often let you manipulate the space, too, moving around large objects to complete other routes that let you progress further into the biome you're currently in. Each of these spaces is like one big Rube Goldberg machine that you're slowly activating one piece at a time, and it's satisfying to see levels fold in on themselves and click into place once you've got everything down. This is crucial given Scorn's purposeful lack of storytelling, with only two short cutscenes at its start and end tasking you with making any sense of everything in-between.
Much of this exploration is broken up with smaller, minigame-like puzzles that are far less engaging, however. There are a handful of different kinds, although many of them are repeated in quick succession, which dilutes the already lackluster impact they have. It's not that any of them is frustrating or annoying to interact with, it's more that they're just completely unsurprising. They're barely twists on existing puzzles you've probably played numerous times before (like one that mimics the structure of the popular board game Rush Hour, where you're moving objects to create a path to an exit), which is painfully obvious despite the grotesque aesthetic they're hidden underneath. It's disappointing that such a core component of Scorn's gameplay experience falters so consistently, and it's especially glaring given how gratifying the larger puzzles are.
Although puzzle-based exploration is the core focus, Scorn does have its fair share of combat, with a handful of weapons and enemies to slay them with becoming prominent about halfway through the story. At first these encounters are light; single enemies are thrown at you, which seem manageable with the limited firepower you have. The first weapon you find has very limited range and requires a lengthy cooldown after just two shots, while also not doing much damage, making each encounter one that demands caution. This is more frustrating than challenging, though. Your movement speed, even when sprinting, is relatively slow, and the lack of a dodge makes avoiding damage a chore. That's primarily because most enemies exclusively use long-range and relatively fast attacks, allowing them to hit you well before you get in close and they continue doing so as you scramble to get the required four or five shots in. It feels woefully unbalanced even in the early stages, forcing many deaths before you can progress.
This alone isn't entirely uncommon for horror games; it's normal for many in this genre to encourage players to circumvent enemies rather than engage them. It's clear that Scorn expects this too, but its combat encounters leave little room to do so. Although some enemies are placed in spaces that allow you to cleverly find alternative routes around them, many of them appear in narrow hallways that don't allow you to get on either side of them easily. You'll routinely take damage when simply trying to sprint past most of the game's foes, which you'll have to do frequently given the lack of both ammunition for later-game weapons and life-giving health stations. This stretches beyond just challenging and falls squarely into infuriating territory, as many deaths are a result of an increasingly brutal gauntlet of enemies that you are both ill-equipped to face and nearly incapable of avoiding. Worse still is the fact that at least one of Scorn's four weapons can be entirely missed, making long stretches of the game nigh impossible to progress through with encounters feeling designed for tools that you don't have (and cannot go back to retrieve).
The increasing number of combat encounters highlights how brutal Scorn's checkpoint system is, too. There were instances where a death threw me back multiple steps in an act's overall puzzle, forcing me to redo mundane (and safe) tasks and obtain key items again before tackling the same enemy. There's only a single checkpoint stored at a time, too, with no option to manually save. This doesn't seem like a problem initially, but it becomes infuriating when used in conjunction with a caching of your total health at the same time. There were multiple instances where Scorn saved my progress while being just a single hit away from death, with multiple enemies around the corner lying in wait. The only other option aside from depending on some luck was to reload the entire act, often meaning a loss of hours of progress. This was forced upon me when my character clipped through a wall and the game saved, throwing me back into that unrecoverable state.
The restrictive saves and unbalanced combat combine to make much of Scorn's adventure a frustrating slog, betraying the initial promising opening hours that emphasize puzzle-solving and atmosphere above everything else. Even with the disappointing smaller puzzles, the overarching ones that are the centerpieces of each act are satisfying to slowly put together, but not captivating enough to distract from the brutally unfair challenges along the way. There's simply too much in Scorn that works to push you away from it rather than pull you deeper into it, making even its relatively brief adventure a difficult one to suggest you give your time to.
From a pure golfing perspective, PGA Tour 2K23 is the best simulation golf game ever made. With realistic ball physics, precise shot-shaping, and an emphasis on rhythm and swing path, 2K23 delivers on the many idiosyncrasies of the beautiful game that is golf. Combine the refined golfing mechanics with deeper levels of customization, and I can safely say that PGA Tour 2K23 is a meaningful upgrade over its predecessor. And hey, it also marks the return of Tiger Woods to the virtual links, which is a big deal for those who grew up playing Tiger Woods golf games.
PGA Tour 2K23 is the first new entry in the series in two years. That's unusual for sports games, as most have annual entries. After spending more than a dozen hours with 2K23, I'm starting to feel like this release model--where developers have more time to make improvements--would go a long way toward fixing many of the issues that plague long-running sports series. It doesn't offer minor, iterative changes. Instead, PGA 2K23 is a marked improvement on its predecessor–a rarity in the sports sim genre.
The PGA 2K series--previously called The Golf Club before 2K acquired HB Studios--has always done a remarkable job with swing mechanics. Emphasizing timing and rhythm more than popular golf games of yesteryear, the series makes each swing feel critical--just like the real sport. PGA Tour 2K23 follows that tradition and improves on it with a couple of new core features: a revamped swing meter and a three-click swing system.
The swing meter for analog controls has moved from below to next to your golfer. It's shaped like an arc that mimics the swing plane. Though largely a presentational difference at first glance, it's actually pretty clever. By redesigning the meter, it's far easier to observe the path of the club during your backswing and stop it in the sweet spot. In turn, this helped create a smoother swing and allowed me to really get to know the swing path of my created golfer as well as the playable pros in the game. It's also slyly teaching you how to achieve perfect timing without the meter. For dedicated players, the best results come from "feel." Some competitive online tournaments in previous entries have banned the meter altogether, so now it's easier to make that transition to playing from muscle memory instead of the swing aide.
Though the analog stick controls are still the way to go for an authentic experience, HB Studios added an innovative three-click system. This type of shot mechanic has been featured in many golf games, including old EA Sports Tiger Woods titles, Mario Golf, and Everybody's Golf (Hot Shots). Typically seen as more of an "arcade" mechanic, the system here is unconventional but works exceedingly well.
The three-click system utilizes the circle in the bottom-right corner that typically shows shot feedback. You press and hold the action button and watch the fill to determine distance. After releasing the button and (hopefully) stopping it in the white ring, a line spins counter-clockwise toward the top of the circle. There, you have to once again press the button to stop it in the white area. Finally, another line goes down counter-clockwise toward the bottom of the circle, where you have to stop it in the white one more time. These three actions--just two for putts--create the distance, accuracy, and rhythm of each shot.
Many three-click swing systems really only have two meaningful button presses (top and bottom), so the design here is more nuanced, which is fitting considering the analog stick swing system is more complex than your average golf sim.
What's really great about both systems is that they are adaptable to your skill level. Both swing styles have six different difficulty levels to choose from, so beginners can hit awesome shots and turn in low scorecards with either method. The three-click system can get intense on higher difficulty levels, so it can certainly still be used by "serious" players.
The fine-tuned swing system is what makes PGA Tour 2K23 really hum, but it's bolstered by many other smaller features that elevate the overall golfing to a realistic level, including ball alignment for altering trajectory, shot-shaping, and numerous shot styles. You're given full control over your pre-shot setup, which is just about as important as the swing itself. But again, if you just want to play casually and don't want to worry about any of this stuff, the many customization options allow you to tailor the experience to be as straightforward as you like.
The smaller issues I had with 2K21's on-the-course gameplay are gone in 2K23. Putts with proper speed seemed to drop into the hole more often, which is great because there were too many lip-outs that didn't really make sense in the last entry. Hitting out of the rough also feels more realistic this time around. Previously, the penalty for an off-line teeshot was often immense, with short rough and especially "heavy rough" making the ball react like you were hitting it out of weeds up to your knees. Wayward shots can--and will--hurt you at times, but I found that it's more possible to pull off a great recovery shot that has the higher ball flight you'd expect.
MyCareer has a slew of improvements. Here, you work your way up from the Korn Ferry Tour to the PGA, earning points toward your season-long ranking as well as in-game cash, other items, and the attention of sponsors. Up until now, the only way to customize your stats was to purchase and add new clubs to your bag from major brands like TaylorMade, Titleist, Callaway, and Mizuno. Now there are multiple meaningful progression systems, including an overarching Archetype choice, further club customization via Fittings, and skill points.
Archetype drastically alters your strengths and weaknesses. You can choose to be adept at putting, bombing teeshots, shot-shaping, recovery shots, or swing rhythm. You can change your Archetype at any time, and it's beneficial to choose an area to boost that you're weak at. You can even be clever and adjust your Archetype based on the course you're playing.
When you buy new clubs in real life, you often get a club "fitting," to see what works for you. In 2K23, fittings are essentially modifications to specific clubs to alter your stats--they can make a big difference. You earn these by defeating your "rivals" in tournaments, but you can also buy them in the in-game marketplace. Yes, this has the potential to mimic NBA 2K's MyPlayer system in which you can pay to get a better player. That said, I've earned plenty of fittings through the solo career mode and feel as if my golfer is gradually getting better. Paying to have the best stats right away doesn't appeal to me, but it could make playing online somewhat annoying down the line. Overall, I see the Fittings as a way to incentivize playing through multiple seasons of MyCareer.
There are also skill trees for each club type. You earn skill points through play that add bonuses to your attributes throughout the round based on performance. These activate/deactivate based on set conditions and offer minor boosts to aspects like timing, lie conditions, flight, and swing path. They can be reset and tinkered with at any time. I didn't notice any big differences from these skill trees, but it combines with Archetypes and Fittings to give you more control over your created golfer outside of just picking their clubs and outfits.
I'm not as sold on the new golf ball features, as they generally feel like something that are designed to get you to spend money. Your golf ball has the name and look of popular real-world golf balls like Titleist Pro V1 or Bridgestone B XS TW, but the stats are tied to consumables. Golf balls have four stats: spin, flight, bounce, and roll. "Ball Types" alter these stats, and these consumables even come with rarities ranging from common to legendary. Sounds like most sports games these days, right? Yes, sadly it is.
Bought in packs of 3, 6, or 12, they aren't yours to keep. You use one up every round. Thankfully, you can purchase these with virtual currency earned simply by playing (even solo mode). You can, however, buy currency with real money to pick up these consumables. I would never do this, but it's worth noting that the stat changes are immense with some of the pricier and "rarer" options. You can alter a stat up to 60 points over the free, no stats-boost ball type.
I could envision this becoming an issue for someone who plays a lot of rounds online. Courses can have firm greens, rainy conditions, lengthy layouts, or any number of quirks that set up better for longer carry distances, more spin, more roll, etc. You could theoretically use up all of your stat boosts and consider spending real money if it helps you enough. Unlike fittings, this new feature doesn't feel aligned to gradually making your golfer better--it's just one of the annoyances that plagues modern sports games with online communities. It's still too early to say if these consumables will contribute to a pay-to-win model, but they feel at odds with PGA Tour 2K23's dedication to realism. After all, your golf ball attributes should be connected to the brand and model of ball.
Though PGA 2K21 technically had real pro golfers, they were only your competition; you couldn't play as them, which felt weird. PGA 2K23 remedies that. Led by cover star Tiger Woods, 2K23 has a bunch of well-known PGA golfers, including Justin Thomas, Collin Morikawa, Tony Finau, and Will Zalatoris. It also has LPGA stars like Lexi Thompson and Lydia Ko. And hey, it even has golfers who defected to the controversial LIV Golf League like Open champ Cameron Smith. 2K has already stated that it won't remove any LIV golfers from the game, but it's still a bit funny since they are banned from PGA Tour events. At least those guys can still compete at The Players Championship and in the FedEx Cup… just not in real life.
The addition of playable pros is particularly great for casual rounds of golf. Sometimes you don't want to play as a created golfer; you'd rather step into the shoes of Tiger Woods and swing the club just like him. It's nice to see swings that look ripped from real life from these pros, too.
PGA 2K23's official course list has expanded as well, but not by a whole lot. There are three new courses at launch: Wilmington Country Club (South Course), The Renaissance Club, and St. George's Golf. The latter pair are particularly cool, as they are the first in the series outside of the United States. The Renaissance Club is a links-style course, which offers a welcome change of pace. Several iconic courses will be added at a later date, including Pebble Beach and two Torrey Pines tracks. The returning courses and the new ones don't look much different than 2K21. The graphics in general are quite similar to PGA 2K21. Swing animations are more fluid, but the actual scenery didn't receive a big bump despite the two-year gap between releases. Courses are still rendered in more than enough detail, though, so this isn't really a concern to me. If you were expecting a huge makeover on the PS5 and Xbox Series X|S, however, you're not going to find that here. If you own a new-gen console, you will appreciate the faster load times, though.
The lack of a more robust course list means that the career mode still utilizes user-created courses for a bunch of the tournaments during the season. Many of the courses made within the in-game course creator are wonderful, though. There are even faithful recreations of other real courses. The only time throughout the season where I wished there were more courses was when I played the Major Championships. PGA 2K23 has the season-long FedEx Cup, the playoffs, and the "fifth major" that is The Players Championship, but it doesn't have the four most important tournaments of the year: The Masters, US Open, PGA Championship, The Open. This may have bothered me more this time around because we now know that EA Sports is bringing back its golf series next year--without Tiger Woods, who is with 2K now, of course--and already showed off a glimpse of Augusta National, the hallowed site of The Masters.
But at the end of the day, the easy-to-use course creator and growing library of user-created courses gives PGA 2K23 a seriously vast library of layouts that outweighs its lack of iconic real-world courses. After spending two years with 2K21, I still regularly found new courses I loved, and I'm sure that will be the case with 2K23 as well.
PGA 2K23 is great for solo mode against the CPU pros in MyCareer, but Online Societies is what will likely keep golfers on the course. It's hard to say much about Online Societies in 2K23 since the game is in its infancy, but 2K already has its official society up and running with active tournaments. You can create your own societies–basically clubs–to play alongside your friends, or join one of the many other societies that cater to all skill levels. Online Societies offers an easy way to compete on the course against other golfers without having to actually go head-to-head at the same time. Playing in tournaments is a good way to earn virtual currency from purse prizes.
Everyone should try the Online Societies mode, but you can also play head-to-head against friends online or with local multiplayer. In addition to playing 18 holes, you can also face off in Topgolf. The party game asks you to aim at targets to rack up the most points across ten shots. Topgolf is a lot more fun in real life, unsurprisingly, but it's still a nice little bonus for when you want to play against friends but don't have time for a full round.
It's worth noting that there's also a Clubhouse Pass--the golf equivalent of a battle pass--that'll be available at launch for $8. Owning this pass lets you work toward unlocking premium cosmetics--purely cosmetics. It wasn't live yet so I can't add any insight here, but it's good that it's tied to cosmetics and not stat-changing items. There is a free tier as well, so you'll earn cosmetics with the pass regardless if you pay for the premium version or not.
With retooled swing mechanics, including an inventive three-click system, PGA Tour 2K23's on-the-course golfing is the best yet, not just in the series, but in the history of the simulation golf genre. Mostly smart improvements to MyCareer mode make you feel more in control of your created golfer's trajectory–even if the new consumables have the slight potential to become pay-to-win. Finally being able to play as real pros again is a joy, but the minimal real-life course additions put a slight damper on the fun. Nevertheless, it's not lacking in content in the slightest thanks to the engaging Online Societies mode and the endless possibilities provided by user-created courses, many of which could be mistaken for layouts designed by well-known course architects. PGA Tour 2K23 continues the series tradition of being welcoming to new players while offering an authentic, challenging golfing experience for those who desire it.
The survival-crafting genre is famous for a few things: steep learning curves, a bit of jank in its systems, and a sense of seriousness that, to be fair, is to be expected in an experience that starts you off hungry, thirsty, cold, and defenseless. Obsidian's Grounded, launching into its 1.0 state after two years in Xbox Game Preview, delightfully rejects these tropes, by and large. Instead, it takes the best bits of these games, polishes them, and offers a childlike spin, giving it all a charming sense of place and a unique point of view.
The premise of the game's setup is simple: You take on the role of one of four kids inexplicably shrunken down to the size of an ant and must fend for yourself (and up to three co-op partners) in The Backyard, a typical residential space that would be less than notable if not for your sudden change in stature.
In The Backyard, dinner is a tadpole cooked over campfire, or perhaps some gooey "gnatchos," and your biggest concerns are no longer homework and bedtimes, but wolf spiders and bees. It's the sort of thought experiment no one leaves childhood without having dwelled on--what if I was really small?--and as such, the game filters every weapon, potion, safe haven, and more through the eyes of its kids.
This doesn't directly make combat easier or base-building less time-consuming, but indirectly, it feels like absorbing the game's codex to the extent that you always know what you should be doing. Combined with the game's steady progression toward making your character formidable in their own right, Grounded is certainly one of the more welcoming games of its type.
Because of the game's '90s sci-fi overtones--your sudden status as a miniscule pre-teen is the result of an experiment you'll uncover as the story progresses--there are many field stations set up around the dense backyard which you can use to study materials such as plant fibers, spider legs, and dandelion stems. As you study them, you'll discover all you need to know about the item, including the crafting recipes that demand it.
This helps lift up Grounded in those critical first few sessions, because though you still won't have much of what you need to craft some of the more elaborate items, you'll discover them--and thus understand their place in the world--much sooner than games like this tend to allow. This starts to explain The Backyard at a much more welcoming pace than I've gotten used to by playing similar games over the years.
The early hours are still tough though, especially when played solo. Most encounters and even non-combative activities seem designed for multiple players. Taking on an orb weaver spider within the first hour is a death sentence for you, but more manageable with a few friends. Similarly, building a really elaborate home base takes a lot of assembly line-like maneuvering, like lugging grass planks from the wilds back to home. Each additional set of hands makes the game more enjoyable, which is usually the case when co-op is an option, but also more digestible.
Much of the story is doled out through audio logs and the occasional cutscene, but the characters routinely comment on things as you're exploring, like how the weevils, with their hose-like noses, sound like they're congested, or how they've always been taught not to waste food. These are kids experiencing some incredible circumstances, but they still manage to behave and talk like kids. They'll explore landmarks unique to their world too, like discarded hot dogs, spilled-over juice boxes, and ant hills full of secret passageways.
Buff-giving potions are smoothies, furniture includes things like a big squishy couch made of blueberries; everything in the world clearly comes from the mind of a child. The kids' perspective may be dramatically shifted, but they don't lose their youthful eye for the world, and this aesthetic difference is Grounded's greatest attribute. The colors pop off the screen like a modern Disney movie, and even the game's most dangerous enemies have a cartoonishness about them. This is not the sort of dark and dire survival-crafting game you may be used to. If Minecraft is a game for kids with the mind of an adult, Grounded is a game for adults with the heart of a child.
That's meant as a compliment, but it does also start to explain one of the game's downsides: Though the crafting menu is impressive in size, especially its complete weapons list that includes different dozens of bludgeons, swords, bows, and bombs, some parts of the crafting menu feel noticeably sparse. I played much of this game within the survival mode where all threats are real, but I did find myself enjoying the freedom of creative mode and its instantly-unlocked recipes, which becomes the post-game's main draw after the story is concluded. Seeing all the game's possibilities in one place made me realize that, beyond a few clever furnishings and several critical crafting objects like the workbench, the game doesn't have a ton of things to decorate your home with.
This isn't The Sims, of course, but in every category except for its interior decor, the base-building menu is robust. If you need protection, Grounded's weapons locker and defensive blueprints are awesome. If you're craving fashion over function, however, Grounded is more than a few cool chairs and dressers short of the world's smallest IKEA.
If its whimsical aesthetic is its greatest feat, Grounded's level of polish is its biggest surprise. In my experience, survival-crafting games are more prone to messiness than most other genres. Maybe it's the ample tools players are given to reshape their world, or the trend that demands so many of these games launch in early access, thus giving players a jankier experience more of the time, but I went into Grounded expecting to live with some of that messiness, but didn't really find much of it.
Combat feels good in first- or third-person, platforming can be a bit imprecise at times due to how floaty it is, but for the most part, Grounded seems to enjoy its status as both a game that comes in a long lineage of like-minded experiences and the latest project from an established, expert team like Obsidian. This is fortunate too, because the game's many traversal elements--from floating to earth on a dandelion stem, to parkouring across bent-over grass and exploring the depths of the koi pond--require some polish that ensure your mistakes are your own, not the game's. With the exception of some missed leaps across tree branches, I never had any issues with the game's controls and its overall feel.
Grounded isn't the biggest game of its kind, and most of its moment-to-moment gameplay moments have been seen before in other games. Still, the fantastical setup makes for an immediately intriguing setup, and to further stylize it as a uniquely child-like adventure, polish it beyond most of its peers, and set it in a world full of familiar sights to see in startling new ways makes Grounded no small feat.
One of the most significant changes to Overwatch 2 comes in the shape of its new 5v5 combat. While Overwatch featured six heroes on each team--generally two damage, two support, and two tanks--Overwatch 2 eliminates one of these tanks, shrinking each team by one and, subsequently, altering the dynamic of battles. Little side scraps are nowhere near as common, as with only one tank soaking up damage, it becomes vital that the whole team is there to support them as well as provide enough of an attack to break through the other team's defenses. At times, this can be frustrating, as some tanks are far better at staying put and soaking up damage (Reinhardt) while others are better at hunting down enemies and dishing it out (Roadhog).
With two tanks, you could incorporate both types on your team, easing the need for a tank to juggle doing both. However, the change makes for faster and more concentrated matches, where cooperation and coordination are crucial, and your every action (or inaction) feels a lot more impactful. It also means team composition and understanding how certain heroes complement one another matters far more than ever before. This is as intense as it sounds, but the chaos and split-second strategizing also make it incredibly fun, with every secured victory a meaningful triumph.
Adding to Overwatch 2's focus on creating engaging and tense matches is its newest mode: Push. In Push, each team is tasked with reaching the middle of the map, where a robot and two barriers, one on either side, await. When a team has secured the robot it begins to push the opposing team's barrier; whichever team covers the most ground at the end of the match is then crowned the winner. In every game I played, the push-and-pull of battle was incredibly tense, feeling like a constant series of tug-of-war where the tide could change at any moment. Playing a game of Overwatch has never felt quite as good as it does in Overwatch 2.
With all this intensity, it makes sense that Blizzard is going to extreme lengths to prevent cheating and eliminate toxicity within the Overwatch community. This includes things such as requiring players to register a phone number with their Battle.net account, as well as eliminating one of Overwatch's prized features: Medals. These are no longer doled out at the end of each game and instead you only see the coveted Play of the Game reel followed by your individual experience bar filling up. However, you can see how your stats stack up against your teammates and enemies at any time with the touch of a button--making the elimination of medals seem pointless. For me, the satisfaction of earning a medal (or even being “on fire” during a match, another feature dropped in the sequel) was a huge incentive as they made me want to grow as a player and helped me identify when certain teammates or opponents were showing off some serious skills. This also contributed to how I gave out commendations. It's a subtle omission, but one that I certainly felt.
However, it's hardly the most significant change to Overwatch's reward systems. With Overwatch 2's pivot to free-to-play also comes the introduction of a very divisive feature in gaming: the battle pass. Instead of randomized loot boxes, Overwatch 2 will offer players cosmetic upgrades through its battle passes, which last an entire nine-week long season. These battle passes come in free and premium versions, with the premium pass costing 1,000 Overwatch Coins or $10 USD.
While I stand by the belief that randomized loot boxes can be predatory, preying upon people's willingness to essentially gamble for whatever prizes they want, it's harder for me to decide just how consumer-friendly these particular battle passes feel. Blizzard tries to curtail the notion that buying the premium battle pass is essential by touting that all new heroes--which are scheduled to release every other season--will always be available for free. However, everyone who does pay for the premium battle pass will get these heroes instantly, while those who don't will have to level their battle pass to tier 55 to unlock them.
In my time playing the game, the battle pass didn't level up all that quickly, despite me performing decently in most matches and even knocking out some of the game's new challenges. This means players are in for a long wait if they don't buy the premium pass and will need to invest a lot time into unlocking levels, which feels unfair even with Blizzard opting to keep new characters out of Competitive PvP play for the first few weeks. Sure, much like in Fortnite, it is possible to earn currency through the battle pass that reduces the cost of a future premium upgrade--which could be the smartest way to go about it if you're planning on doing a whole lot of playing. But parts of this feel so at odds with the spirit of the original Overwatch, which prided itself on not placing heroes behind paywalls and keeping playing fields level.
In addition, the brief look I got at seasons two, three, and four show a great deal of effort is going into themed seasons boasting exclusive cosmetics, with the more elaborate of these being locked behind paywalls. While the loot boxes at least had some semblance of equality in that you could get any item at random, this new model means players will have to spend money on a premium battle pass or buy an item outright if they wish to dress to impress.
Another thing to consider is that, for those jumping into Overwatch 2 without having owned the original Overwatch, it has now been revealed that you will have to play through 100 matches before you are able to use the entire roster of characters--a choice I find completely bizarre, even if I do understand the intentions behind it. The team calls this decision part of the game's First Time User Experience, which is meant to slowly onboard and acclimate new players to the game as well as prevent smurf accounts from becoming a problem. However, the idea that players need to log in 10 to 20 hours and prove themselves in order to unlock other heroes feels unnecessary and perhaps even a bit insulting. This is once again a thing that doesn't feel in the spirit of Overwatch, which encouraged players to explore and experiment freely to find what they feel works best for them; that ethos feels disingenuous now, considering that a chunk of the roster is locked away.
This is hardly the only issue at launch, however. While my time spent playing Overwatch 2 prior to release was difficult due to the small number of people playing the game, upon launch slight frustration gave way to annoyance. At times, it would take me hours to log into the game only to be kicked out after a match. This isn’t to mention the number of difficulties those around me reported, including accidentally purchasing skins, data transfer issues, and difficulties around Overwatch 2’s previous SMS requirements. While many live service games have bumpy beginnings, this forray felt especially jarring. It is worth noting, however, that Blizzard has been actively working on addressing these issues. Server queue times are down significantly, the SMS requirement has been dropped for the majority of players, and on at least three separate occasions the servers have been briefly shut down for maintenance, with noticeable improvements after each update.
Overwatch 2’s lack of PvE at launch is also a notable omission. Considering this aspect of the game was meant to be the groundbreaking, monumental feature that set it apart from its predecessor, it's not merely disappointing to have to wait until next year to see it; it makes the sequel feel more like an update simply packaged as a whole new chapter. Additionally, launching the game with PvE would have added some much needed heart and identity to the game that, despite how good it is to play, feels like an exercise in making Overwatch fall in line with the modern business models for multiplayer shooters. Sure, that might come off as a cynical assessment, but it feels just as cynical as it sounds. From doing away with Winston's inspiring opening speech, which very much speaks to the heart and soul of what Overwatch represents, to the sleek, almost overly-polished new style of the game's menu, to going free-to-play and implementing a battle pass, Overwatch 2 takes the franchise from a genre-defining shooter to a trend-chasing one. As such, it has begun to feel less like a unique sci-fi, superhero comic book in video game form, and more like, well, a lot of other games. That's not necessarily a bad thing, as many of those other games are superb in their own right and Overwatch 2's gameplay certainly lets it hang with the cream of the crop, but it comes at the cost of Overwatch's unique aesthetic and fascinating world, which feel diminished.
Fortunately, Overwatch 2 has a major silver lining in its characters. The subtle changes that older characters have undergone, both cosmetically and in terms of their abilities, feel beneficial and succeed in giving them that gentle refresh they needed without disturbing the magic of their original designs. Although it might take some getting used to not having some key abilities (I admit, I miss Orisa's barrier), the push towards making tanks better at dealing damage and less reliant on shields makes playing them a blast and adds to the more aggressive nature of Overwatch 2.
Similarly, characters like Sombra and Cassidy now hit harder, while heroes with stuns and freeze attacks no longer bring games to a grinding halt, and instead have abilities that keep the game going and damage numbers going up. Even with all these changes, the roster still seems to be fairly balanced, an impressive feat when you have 30+ characters to consider. And, as a newly-converted live service title, we can thankfully anticipate this to stay true. While there are sure to be some growing pains as players grow accustomed to changes occurring more frequently—and their favorite characters at times being unavailable to play—it could make for a healthier game with greater longevity.
I also cannot sing enough praises for each of the three new heroes, all of which are excellently designed and extremely versatile. Sojourn is a tactical one-woman army, while Junker Queen's enemy-weakening abilities give the tanky powerhouse a supportive edge. Kiriko in particular feels like no other support hero before her, as not only can she pass through walls in order to heal teammates, but she can also deal some serious damage with her kunai, making her a fantastic pick for folks who normally play the DPS role but need to take on a support role. Lastly, I also got a look at two heroes headed to Overwatch 2 in the coming seasons. Both of these heroes--while still subject to change--were excellently designed, and will add new elements to the game that make me excited to see how they fit in with the rest of the roster.
Where it counts, Overwatch 2 feels like a fantastic update to a multiplayer game with mechanics that enable thrilling skirmishes between teams of heroes. However, as a separate entity and sequel, it stumbles. Changes to the core gameplay are steps in the right direction, but it is surrounded by new points of friction where there previously were none. Thankfully, as a live-service game, things will be added or altered once Blizzard has more player feedback, so at the very least the studio has a strong foundation to build upon. There is plenty of good to be found in Overwatch 2 and in the heat of battle the intoxicating multiplayer dynamics that fans love are there to enjoy all over again. But if the first Overwatch taught me anything, it's to dream a bit bigger about what games can be, and there is still a bit more dreaming to be done here.
Lego games are not usually centered around their actual construction toy namesake. A massive library of Traveller's Tales games have been built on crossovers with many licensed franchises, turning properties like Lord of the Rings and Marvel superheroes into slapstick action-platformers, and Lego A Builder's Journey used the brick-building toys to tell a heartfelt story. Lego games don't often capture the feeling of actually playing with Lego bricks, but Lego Bricktales actually does with incredible accuracy.
Bricktales is all about building, transporting you to five Lego-themed worlds and presenting you with a series of physics-based building puzzles. The physics system underlying the whole thing is impressive, as the Lego bricks actually perform the way any experienced brick-builder would expect. Whenever you finish a project that requires weight-bearing, you'll need to test it with a falling object or a little robot crossing your construction to make sure it holds up. If you didn't reinforce it with support struts, the pieces will just fall apart. Even elements like a step being one spacer too high could create enough fall momentum to break the structure.
In that way, Lego Bricktales functions like a STEM toy, teaching some basic engineering principles in a fun and engaging way, just like actual Lego bricks. Putting it into a virtual space like this means you get to stress test the results of your hard work in a way that feels personal and tactile. You can sense the physicality of the interlocking brick system in a way that other games haven't quite captured. It's very satisfying to walk up a set of stairs that you designed yourself, recognizing your own patterns and even your mistakes. And once you've completed the building challenge, you unlock a free play mode that lets you use additional decorative elements to make the structures look great. As you progress through a biome, you'll be surrounded by your own works of brick-built functional art, using them to traverse the environments.
Those puzzles can be tricky. I'm no engineer, but I fancied myself an old hand at Lego construction, and I would sometimes discover the limitations of my own skills. The difficulty curves up nicely, asking you to do increasingly complex builds with more limited tool sets. Learning to make do with an economy of bricks is skill-testing but all that much more satisfying when you piece it together. My most dreaded challenges revolved around pendulums, since those would actually take balance into account. Those often came down to trial-and-error, since I couldn't feel the heft of the pieces in my hand, but they were also some of the most rewarding to successfully complete.
Lego Bricktales doesn't use licensed properties like Batman or Lord of the Rings, mind you, though it does borrow the playful spirit that TT Games established in those games. The dialogue is often funny, clever, and lighthearted, with occasional little meta-joke nudges about Lego bricks themselves.
These are instead classic biomes you might find in a bin of assorted Lego bricks, with themes like Jungle or Desert. Each biome has its own villagers to attend to, with some simple environmental and navigational puzzles to round out the building challenges. Your ultimate goal is to make people happy, thereby collecting a special brick and taking it back home where it helps power your burgeoning amusement park. The amusement park serves as your reward for completing each biome, letting you create pieces of the various rides. These are often easier than the trickier building challenges, as they mostly just ask you to decorate elements like roller coaster cars.
The building tools can feel finicky, especially at first as you learn how to compensate for their intricacies. Pieces will often snap to locations you didn't mean to put them, and even when trying to lightly finesse a piece into place, it would sometimes pop across the build area. And although there's good variety to the construction challenges, from helicopters and drones to recreating a statue, some get repetitive. There's only so many times you can be asked to build a bridge or a set of stairs.
The virtual tools also run into some limitations of the medium itself, as even a very well-made virtual building tool can't entirely replicate the dexterity and versatility of using your hands. For example, in real life it's just second nature to hold a piece with one hand while attaching another to the bottom. In Bricktales, since you're only manipulating one brick at a time, you need to build from the bottom up--or otherwise take gravity into account by attaching a temporary joiner piece to hold another in place. There is no option to hover a piece in midair while you grab another to secure it. It's a small thing, but it just barely keeps the experience from feeling like a perfect imitation.
Being a slightly less-than-perfect approximation of building with Lego bricks still means it is almost perfect, though, and that's remarkably impressive. While some of the build challenges feel repetitive and the controls can be fiddly, this is a great concept executed well, and pays respectful homage to the classic toy. Lego Bricktales sets a new template for what a Lego game can be, and I'd love to see developer Clockstone build on it even more.
Names hold a lot of power, particularly in the world of entertainment media. When the name of a beloved franchise is attached to something, it brings a lot of things with it: nostalgia, excitement, and perhaps most importantly, expectations. Valkyrie Elysium is no different: It bears the name and lineage of an RPG series known for daring, experimental gameplay and storytelling that's fervently beloved by a loyal group of fans. Unfortunately, this middling action-RPG that the Valkyrie titling is attached to bears little resemblance to the bold, beloved games that preceded it.
The story of Valkyrie Elysium, set up during a brief cinematic at the beginning, takes place smack-dab in the middle of Ragnarok, the end of the world foretold in Norse mythology. Odin, the All-Father and highest of the gods, has been mortally wounded in a battle with Fenrir and requires the strength of souls to restore his power so that he can revive the dying world. To accomplish this, he summons forth a Valkyrie, the legendary vessel of the gods who leads chosen souls to glory in Valhalla. Valkyrie is tasked with purifying wicked souls, finding the worthy to bring to Odin, and recovering sacred treasures. But, as you might expect, all is not entirely what it seems, and Valkyrie faces a conflict between her duty as a servant of Odin and her increasingly conflicted emotions.
If you've played the original Valkyrie Profile, you'll recognize many very similar story beats here--but without the emotional weight or interesting character drama. The transformation of Valkyrie from devoted, single-minded soldier to conflicted heroine doesn't feel genuine: We're simply told that she's becoming more empathetic to humans with little evidence to back it up. The Einherjar--fallen warriors who Valkyrie recruits to aid her in battle--have some interesting backstories, albeit told in a haphazard, disjointed means that's supposed to inspire curiosity and mystique but only leaves you confused until you read their profiles and play some side quests.
With the story being a non-starter, it's up to the gameplay to carry Valkyrie Elysium. Sadly, while the combat does have some interesting ideas, it's bogged down with dull exploration and some puzzling design choices.
Valkyrie Elysium is divided into chapters, with each chapter presented as one long stage with various enemies and gimmicks Valkyrie must overcome. And when I say long, I mean it: You're looking at 1-2 hours on average for each chapter. (There are generous checkpoints, at least.) This might be okay if there were anything interesting to see in these areas, but there really isn't. The levels are obnoxiously large and primarily consist of lots of ruined buildings, random foliage, rocky cliffs, water, and more destructible boxes lying around than the local post office. There are barely any NPCs to give any sort of life to the world, either. Instead you'll hear random snippets of character dialogue from flowers called Hollow Blossoms and Verdant Blossoms, which serve as collectibles (and, in the case of the latter, are vital to unlocking the true ending). These would be a great way to build upon the world mythology if the world actually felt interesting, but as a substitute for having actual characters, they fall totally flat.
The combat engine is a bright point among all the dull disappointment. The combo-heavy action sees Valkyrie using a mix of weapon strikes, Divine Arts magic spells, and fast movement skills to deliver a divine purification beatdown to the undead. Accompanying her are the aforementioned Einherjar, who she can summon to act as NPC assistants and grant her elemental affinities. An element- and weapon-based weakness system rewards you for exploiting vulnerabilities with extra damage and stun states that leave enemies completely incapacitated for a brief period--useful for both crowd control and dealing damage to foes with big healthbars. As the game progresses, you can spend earned souls and gems on skill and weapon upgrades that unlock new attacks, counters, and maneuvers, giving you a continuous supply of interesting new attacks to experiment with.
But alas, even the great combat engine feels meaningless when you figure out that the strategy of "see enemy, determine elemental weakness, summon appropriate Einherjar, follow up with Divine Arts to break and stun, execute combo on defenseless foe, repeat on next enemy" works for the vast majority of encounters. Even the bosses fall to this basic battleplan fairly easily--though with an added step of "stall until their post-recovery stun immunity fades" inserted. The handful of battles where you can't use this strategy effectively--like the ones where Einherjar use is restricted--feel a lot more exciting and challenging as a result.
There are lots of other puzzling decisions. Why no minimap? Why have a tether skill for field movement and puzzles that require summoning Einherjar when they're so rare and arbitrarily placed? Why do I have to replay a whole ungodly long chapter if I missed a Verdant blossom I want to collect? But ultimately, they're minor annoyances compared to the main problem: Valkyrie Elysium is a mostly technically competent game weighed down by the dullness of its story, setting, and strategy. There are glimmers of fun in the combat and some of the dialogue--the rare mid-level Einherjar banter is always welcome--but it's not enough to overcome stifling mediocrity. Valkyrie Elysium is a mere pretender to the glory of this series' past endeavors.
FIFA 23 marks the end of an era for the long-running series. After an almost 30-year partnership that began with players like David Platt gracing the cover, EA Sports has parted ways with football's governing body over a licensing disagreement. Future games in the series will now drop the FIFA name in favor of a new EA Sports FC moniker. Not that you'd be able to tell from playing FIFA 23, mind you. Despite being the last game adorned with the household name, it's business as usual both on and off the pitch for EA's latest footballing sim. There are a few new additions spread across its various game modes--and Ultimate Team sees its most significant change in years--but for the most part, FIFA's swansong is a game of minor iterations.
This begins once you step out onto its exquisitely rendered grass, with the introduction of HyperMotion2 ensuring that each and every match in FIFA 23 looks and feels more authentic and immersive. This innovative technology first appeared in last year's game and allowed the developers to motion capture all 22 players in a real-life match. By capturing every minute detail and context-specific action across a full 90 minutes and implementing it into FIFA's gameplay, there was a plethora of new animations that edged the simulation closer to reality. With HyperMotion2, FIFA 23 simply expands on its predecessor by obtaining even more data from both full-length matches and training sessions with professional teams. This means that players move across the pitch, collide with each other, and strike the ball with increased fluidity and an added sense of realism.
The impact this has on gameplay is palpable, most notably in regards to the game's overall pace. I said the same thing last year, but FIFA 23 is considerably slower than its precursor. Fleet-footed players can still be devastating, but they work best in short bursts, using their acceleration to gain a yard of space or dashing past a static back line. For the most part, goals are created through sweeping passing moves. Picking out a teammate is more consistent this time around, and there's a responsiveness and satisfying zip to passes that constitutes genuine excitement when you're able to spray the ball around to create openings and eventually finish a move off with the ball nestled in the bottom corner. To counteract this, defenders feel more intelligent in regards to their positioning, and successful tackles frequently end with you actually regaining possession. Jockeying is also an effective avenue for winning the ball back, especially when using a stronger player who's able to utilize their strength to great effect, and slide tackling finally feels viable again.
Despite these changes, FIFA 23 doesn't feel like a significant leap forward over last year's game. It's very much a case of incremental improvements on what was previously established, so it's still a good game, just not one that feels particularly new. In fact, one of the only new additions is the advent of power shots, which see your player take an exaggerated wind-up before launching the ball towards goal in thunderous fashion. The dramatic zoom-in that accompanies each wind-up makes the power shot feel like it belongs in Mario Strikers or Captain Tsubasa rather than the latest FIFA, but there's no more satisfying way to score a goal in FIFA 23. Most of the time, however, it takes so long to fire off one of these shots that you'll be dispossessed before the ball can even leave your foot. And when it does, accuracy varies, from pinpoint screamers that fly into the top corner to wild lashes that end up closer to the corner flag. This creates an inviting element of risk and reward where there might be better and safer options, but nothing beats piledriving a shot that the net can barely contain.
Other new additions are similarly positive. The women's game features more prominently than ever before, with the inclusion of club football joining the assortment of international teams that have been in the game since FIFA 16. There are only two leagues to choose from--the English Women's Super League and French Division 1 Arkema--but finally being able to play as clubs like Chelsea and Lyon is a long overdue addition. HyperMotion2 was also used to capture women's football, so players like cover star Sam Kerr and Arsenal striker Vivianne Miedema move as you would expect and feel distinct from their male counterparts. The only downside is that you can only use women's teams in friendlies and tournaments, so you can play through a full season in either division, but you're restricted to a single campaign and aren't able to purchase players or engage in any of the other amenities found in FIFA's career mode.
Speaking of which, career mode is much the same as before. One of the new features lets you take part in playable highlights of games rather than having to play through the full 90 minutes, ensuring that you still have an impact in matches you're simulating. If you opt for a player career, you can now ostensibly shape their personality to receive buffs for certain attributes. Assisting a teammate will generate Heartbeat points, for instance, whereas holding on to the ball and scoring yourself will generate both Maverick and Virtuoso points. These points will then boost attributes related to each personality style, whether it provides a bump to dribbling and finishing or crossing and ball control. You can also spend in-game money to gain additional points by, say, donating to a charity or purchasing an expensive watch. It's a binary system that uses the word "personality" very loosely, but it's a step in the right direction, even if it mostly fades into the background and doesn't drastically change the feel of career mode.
In a PR savvy move, AFC Richmond is also a playable team in FIFA 23. You'll see Ted Lasso patrolling the touchline and emerge from the tunnel with a lineup featuring the likes of Roy Kent and Jamie Tartt. It's a fun gimmick for fans of the show, although it doesn't really go anywhere beyond the visuals. You can select Richmond in career mode and stick them in the Premier League, but press conferences still use the same generic answers, so don't expect any Ted-specific lines. Selecting Richmond also puts you in a bit of a hole to begin with because the squad is so small. The bench and fullback positions are filled by generic players in lieu of there not being enough characters in the show, but it feels like an oversight that there aren't more of them. You need to spend your first transfer window buying backups for nearly every position, so being able to use Richmond in career mode doesn't seem particularly well thought out.
Of course, EA's primary focus in FIFA 23 is Ultimate Team. The annual money-maker has reworked its chemistry system this time around, with the maximum possible chemistry your team can reach now 33 instead of 100. You're still rewarded for having teammates that share leagues, clubs, and/or nationalities, but these players don't need to be adjacent to one another in order to receive the attribute boosts. Crucially, there's also no punishment for fielding a player with zero chemistry. You can stick Messi on the wing in a team that's otherwise comprised of Serie A players and his attributes won't suddenly decrease because there are no Argentine or PSG players near him. This transforms Ultimate Team into the fantasy football game mode it was initially billed as. Cards that very few people would have used previously will now be viable because you don't have to worry about their links to other players in your team. Your squad has the potential to be more diverse and unique to you, while the decision to amend position modifier cards is also a positive one. In FIFA 23, these cards can only be used to move a player to their real-life secondary position, putting an end to teams deploying five strikers across the midfield with no negative consequences.
The only downside of this chemistry revamp is the effect it has on Squad Building Challenges (SBCs). Previously, you could stick players in any position and achieve just enough chemistry via their shared nationality and other factors to be able to submit the squad. That's more difficult now because players used outside of their natural position account for zero chemistry, and the requirements for some of these SBCs ask you to submit a squad where the chemistry rating of each player is at least one or two. This feels like another move designed to entice players into buying packs in order to acquire more cards that might potentially be useable in different SBCs. It's a sure sign, if you ever needed one, that the predatory aspects of Ultimate Team aren't going away anytime soon. The issue of pack transparency is still obfuscated, and those who spend the most real money will end up with the best teams.
The addition of Moments does at least give you another avenue to acquire packs without spending a dime. These are bite-sized challenges that vary in difficulty, tasking you with scoring a hat-trick with Mbappe or curling a free kick in from 30 yards out. Their quick-fire nature makes it easy to accrue rewards after an hour or so, and it also proves to be a decent learning tool for newcomers. The only downside is that you're taken back to the Moments menu in between each challenge rather than immediately jumping into the next one--like you're able to on Madden. This minor annoyance isn't enough to detract from what is an enjoyable new addition, though.
FIFA 23 is a fitting end to an era, successfully capturing the essence of the beautiful game alongside the disheartening practices of the profit-hungry vultures circling overhead. It's as much about greed as it is about scoring a screamer. A game where the on-pitch action has been refined with slicker passing, more effective defending, and myriad animations that bring it all to life, yet the shadow of gambling looms over it all. This has been the case since Ultimate Team was introduced 14 years ago, so none of this comes as a surprise. And with the next World Cup taking place in Qatar--a country known for sports washing its human rights record--it's all par for the course when it comes to football. The age of FIFA might be coming to an end, but EA Sports FC is likely to kick off in much the same way: offering a fantastic game of football that's otherwise consumed by an exploitative cash grab.
You initially see Automata from the perspective of a female android named 2B who is part of YoRHa, a group of artificial soldiers tasked with wiping the Earth of its hostile robots and their alien creators. This conflict is all the more poignant due to humanity's displacement to the moon, an exodus that occurred hundreds of years ago. Joining 2B on most of her missions is 9S, a male android who lacks 2B's dual weapon-wielding prowess but compensates with invaluable hacking skills. They start off as strangers, but through the obstacles they overcome, an obvious closeness begins to form. This is thanks in part to Automata's sensational anime-as-hell archetypes and story beats.
Given that Earth is utterly overrun with homicidal machines, making Earth hospitable seems like a tall order. But this challenge is softened by the manageable size of Automata's open world, which is equivalent to a small city. It entices exploration without feeling intimidating, and it's hard to get lost once you've run through the same paths a couple times. Much of the backtracking stems from the game's numerable side quests, where you help your fellow androids on simple errands and kill missions. While most of these tasks aren't especially memorable, they do add character to world. Furthermore, monotony is minimized by the convenience of fast travel and swift steeds like moose and boars.
The brightside of being a robot exterminator in Automata is that your canvas of destruction is the product of Platinum Games. Their penchant for feverishly fast and elegant combat is on full display with visuals that echo even the most outrageous attacks from Bayonetta. Combat evolves beyond mindlessly mashing on quick and strong attacks thanks to the variety of bladed weapon styles. Combining any two types produces uniquely flashy animations and, more importantly, damaging results. You can trigger other gorgeous maneuvers by attacking after pulling off a slick dodge cartwheel or by holding down either of the two attack buttons. 9S' own skill with a sword makes him a substantial AI-controlled contributor, and his ability to keep up with 2B make the battles look positively frenzied. Given the demanding yet rewarding high-dexterity combat and the acrobatic skills of 2B, it wouldn't be unreasonable to say that Automata is the closest thing there is to a spiritual successor to Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance, also developed by Platinum.
You're expected to use tools and techniques beyond the two main attack inputs if you have any hope of victory in ever encounter. Your pod companion--which echoes Grimoire Weiss, the floating book from the first Nier--provides you with various forms of support. Not only does the pod provide you with a sustained ranged attack, it's another outlet for personalizing your approach to combat. You can swap in a wide variety of passive performance enhancing chips, that provide you with stat buffs and helpful automated commands. Relying on your pod to automatically use one of your health items when your HP drops below a certain point makes healing one less thing to worry about. Your pod allows you to focus on other survival concerns, like kicking ass and looking good in the process.
Given the demanding yet rewarding high-dexterity combat and the acrobatic skills of 2B, it wouldn't be unreasonable to say that Automata is the closest thing there is to a spiritual successor to Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance, also developed by Platinum.
If you ever run out of healing items and get murdered by enemy robot, however, you’ll lose your experience points if you can't return to the point of your last death. This is similar to the style of difficulty popularized by Dark Souls with an additional risk of loss: along with the suspense of potentially losing experience you've earned since your last save, you can also lose all of your pod's installed chips, with the exception of the mandatory operating system chip.
While Automata resoundingly delivers that specific flavor of stylish combat found in Platinum's best works, it never overshadows Taro's distinct directorial handiwork and penchant for unconventional game and narrative design. It's the type of production that seamlessly blends story, hack-and-slash combat, and--believe it or not--an engaging bullet-hell shooter component. You don't question the infantile behaviors of many of the enemy robots because they're so darn endearing. And you don't get an explanation for 2B's cosplay-ready gothic lolita outfits, how she manages to move smoothly through a desert in heels, or why some of her comrades behave like self-involved teenagers. You just go along with it because of Automata's captivating world and involving battles.
Taro's unorthodox approach to game design is best exemplified by Automata's multiple endings and the varying degrees of substance in those conclusions. He's not above novelty or gag endings, though the real rewards are the five major endings and the various journeys to each one. You don't get the complete picture until you reach those five endings. As you travel down these various paths, you're not only introduced to new events, but also given new perspectives to moments you've already experienced. Your forward progress isn't propelled by the mere compulsion to achieve 100% completion; you're simply pulled by curiosity to learn more about what happened to Earth and humanity.
Thanks to Platinum Games' knack for riveting and gratifying combat, Automata is Yoko Taro's most exciting game to date. The combat mechanics click after hurdling a low learning curve, and the end result is a skillful dance where balletic dodges complement wushu-inspired aggression. Moreover, this multi-ending trip is generously peppered with surprises and revelations, as well as easter eggs that call back to the first game and the Drakengard series from which Nier spun off. It's a meaty, often exhilarating trek that showcases Platinum Games' and Yoko Taro's unique blend of genius.
Editor's note: Nier: Automata has released on Xbox One as the Become As Gods Edition, which includes the 3C3C1D119440927 DLC along with several cosmetic items for the main characters and pods. We tested the new Xbox One version by playing through the first three hours of the game, and it runs at a stable frame rate at 4K on the Xbox One X. Most importantly, everything we love about Nier: Automata is, of course, still here: the evocative soundtrack, unique narrative style, and affecting story are as strong as ever. We have updated the score to include the Xbox One version. This review has also been updated to include Gabe Gurwin's assessment of the the Nintendo Switch version of the game.
We all know the story. You're overworked and in desperate need of a change when your grandfather coincidentally passes away and bestows upon you a cherished relic from your childhood: his farm. Of course, this rundown ranch is in desperate need of repairs, but luckily for you, there is a town full of interesting (and eligible) villagers eager to see you succeed.
We've seen some iteration of this story unfold in countless life-sim games, and to be fair, this formula is satisfying. However, what if, instead of inheriting a relative's legacy, you inherited years of resentment and distrust? What if, instead of a newfound farmer, you were a state-certified chemist, sent by the government to help an ailing town that has been burned by your kind before? This is the story Potion Permit sets up, and it's just one of the game's many fantastic qualities.
The latest game from Indonesian studio MassHive Media, Potion Permit is a life sim with RPG elements that tasks you with healing a community from both its ailments and its past trauma. You play a chemist sent from the capital to the village of Moonbury at the request of its mayor. You come to discover the reason the mayor sent for you is because his daughter is incredibly ill--so much so that not even the local doctor's methods are working on her. However, while the mayor and his wife are relieved upon your arrival to the sleepy, seaside town, they are among the only villagers who feel that way.
It turns out, you were not the first state chemist sent to Moonbury, and those before you did not leave a great impression. These prior chemists destroyed parts of the surrounding wilderness--rendering certain plant species extinct--the town collectively swore off chemists and their modern medicine. It's a compelling and original story for the genre, sending you on quite the quest: Make amends for the former chemists' mistakes and earn the town's trust.
There are several ways to do this, and they all come together to create Potion Permit's satisfying game loop. At the start of each day, you will be notified of any patients that have come to your clinic. If you have patients, you must first diagnose their illness via one of a few button-pressing minigames, then rush back to your home to brew up the correct potion to treat it. To brew a potion, you have to arrange ingredients--which take on the shape of tetris-like blocks--into a puzzle, with some limitations as to what kinds of ingredients you can use. Both the diagnosis and potion brewing games are fairly simple, but provide that sense of gameplay that makes them engaging rather than monotonous, a trap many life-sims can fall into. And although treating patients and earning a living is fairly straightforward, harvesting these ingredients is where the real fun comes in.
Rather than farming to earn your resources, Potion Permit sends you to the depths of the nearby woods, where you must forage, chop wood, mine stone, and slay monsters to find your crafting materials. In addition to the woods, there are two other locations you can eventually unlock once you have enough money, stone, wood, and a high-enough reputation. Your reputation rises not only through healing the town, but by finding remedies to the environmental damage previous chemists inflicted. While I am the type of life-sim player who find the most enjoyment in the social aspects of the game (you can catch me offering pizza to Shane far more often than you can find me in Stardew Valley's mines), the resource gathering and exploration in Potion Permit often had me wanting to leave the town and discover new plants, monsters, and meandering paths.
This isn't to say Potion Permit's social aspect isn't just as compelling. In fact, alongside its narrative and gorgeous, muted art style, it might be the most interesting thing about the game. The town of Moonbury is filled with villagers, all with their own unique personalities and struggles, and your kind-hearted chemist is more than willing to help them work through them. Each of the six romanceable characters--three women, three men--are well-written and tender, eliciting more than a few butterfly-in-my-stomach moments from me. Even better is once you enter a relationship with them, you can date them anytime, with these dates cycling between a few different outings.
I was also impressed by how much thought went into the characters who are not love interests. In most life and farm sims, these characters feel tertiary, and cutscenes featuring them are few and far between. In Potion Permit, however, I found some of the greatest stories stem from these characters and nearly every day I played there was some new development with them or the town. It makes Moonbury feel alive in a way many life-sim games seldom do. And even though each villager has their own unique schedule, you can ask your canine companion to lead you to them at any time, eliminating the need for you to keep a careful schedule of where they are. This is just one of the quality of life improvements Potion Permit makes to the genre that I hope we see implemented more often.
However, Potion Permit is not without its fair share of issues. There are a few downfalls with the game's relationships, both romantic and platonic. While most life sims present you with the challenge of discovering what gifts a character likes, in Potion Permit you can only gift Moon Cloves. While this does streamline and expedite the friend-making process, it feels impersonal. In addition, there were some friendships I was shocked to see did not evolve into romances--and this has less to do with me wanting to romance these villagers and more to do with some explicitly feeling like romance options. This includes Helene, the flirty casino owner who repeatedly asks you to date her, as well as the book-loving Lucke.
I also took issue with how the game presented certain mental health- and disability-related issues. Though I think Cassandra's story is handled with tact, I strongly dislike that Ottmar's journal entry calls him "a simple-minded dullard, despite his physical size," when he is clearly portrayed as mentally disabled. I also found Garrett's portrayal as a grumpy old man in a wheelchair to be a very tired trope. And although it took me some time to realize this, Dev and Dan are the same character, just with different personalities--a tricky disability to portray well. I think Potion Permit is ambitious in introducing these characters, but at times it fumbles in its portrayals.
These issues pale in comparison to the game's bugs, however. On Switch, I encountered several frame drops as well as strange instances of the game scanning over the town or flashing the inside of a building before playing a cutscene. There were a few instances where I checked the job board only to be met with text that read "reserved for text" or a similar placeholder message rather than the errands I could take on. In the menu, some categories continuously told me I had new items to examine, despite having already looked through them.
The most severe of all of these bugs, however, are found in the game's romance options. During my final interaction with Xiao prior to entering into a relationship with him, the game went black, forcing me to skip the cutscene and miss out on a tender tarot card reading. Another major bug occurred when I gave Matheo a Moon Brooch--the item used to initiate the romance path with a character. After giving him the item, the game scrolled all over town before teleporting me to another character, Leano, and sending me down the romance path with her, despite not even having her at a relationship level to even do so.
The bugs and the lack of certain romance options make the game feel rough in spots, and adding to that sensation is the underutilization of certain systems. Although the Trust system established early on is a fantastic addition to the game's narrative, after earning the town's trust I never lost it--even during a brief period where an event sows some discontent among villagers. Whereas upgrading your cauldron and clinic are essential, upgrading your house's size, adding a kitchen, and even decorating your home all feel like a waste of money and resources, with no real reward for doing so. As such, I didn't really bother with any of this until after the game's story had come to an end, and by that point there remained little incentive to do so.
Lastly, there is a serious lack of character customization and accessibility options. Hairstyles feel predominantly made for light-skinned characters, the town tailor offers next to nothing in terms of ways to change your appearance, and accessibility options are just about non-existent. This is particularly egregregious considering how often you play minigames in Portion Permit (some including button-mashing and precise timing), as well as how small the game's text is. Despite not having any visual impairment myself, even I was a bit frustrated by how small and thin the text was in handheld mode.
In Desta: The Memories Between, you play as Desta, who takes on the unenviable, but relatable task of overthinking future conversations that you don't want to have. This anxiety manifests itself as a tactical dodgeball game in your dreams where you think through the worst possible conversation scenarios with old friends and family while visiting home for the first time in years. To turn that familiar human experience into a grid-based dodgeball game sounds strange on paper, but in practice, it works and delivers alongside it a solid tactics game that uses the mobile platform well.
Interpreting this rehearsal of future conversations as tactical dream dodgeball works well because it feels about as normal as the average anxiety dream. It only really makes sense while it's happening and only falls apart when you try and explain it later. In this way, Desta nails the feeling of a dream, which is difficult to do in any entertainment medium.
As a video game, it also works well as a fun tactics game. Every person in your life that you're dreading a confrontation with appears to you in your dreams (alongside some nobodies to serve as cannon fodder) on a layout of squares with randomized barriers. Old friends introduce themselves by berating you for the thing you're anxious about, manifesting your worst-case scenario. You take turns moving positions, picking up dodgeballs, and tossing the ball at them to inflict damage and whittle down their health while making sure you're in a position to not receive the same punishment. The core idea is familiar to anyone who has played a comparable strategy game, but the dodgeball adds an element of action and finesse that works well on a touchscreen.
Once in position, you pull back on your character to launch the dodgeball like a slingshot, making sure to release at the right moment for added speed. You can bounce the ball against enemies to hit other enemies, or bounce the ball into the hands of your teammates. You can even throw the ball against a wall to bounce it around a corner, or make sure it bounces back to you so the ball is in your hand for the next turn. Throwing the ball is a fun system that gives you lots of additional options in the arena, and when the bounces work in your favor it feels great.
Unfortunately, it can also hurt you in a way that doesn't always feel fair. Sometimes the physics don't quite work and the shot I thought was lined up perfectly bounced in an unexpected, detrimental way. With the touchscreen, I also occasionally accidentally threw a ball when I was just trying to rotate the camera, which was frustrating. Most moves can be undone without any penalty, which is great, but for understandable reasons, once you throw the ball, that turn is over.
Special abilities are unlocked as you play but are randomized each time you attempt a run. For example, one allows you to use all your action points to inflict more damage with a single throw, while another enables you to switch positions with an enemy to give yourself the advantage. This randomization is a good way to introduce you to abilities you may like but would not have otherwise tried, but it also locks you into some abilities that don't feel particularly useful. If you use an ability enough and level it up, you get to keep it across runs, which is great, but early in the game you're at the mercy of whatever you get and there were a few I just never found a great use for.
Desta is a roguelike which means you do have to restart a run when you wake up from a dream after getting hit by a dodgeball too many times. You level up and gain more health and movement spaces per turn as you go, as do the teammates you add to your team through the course of the game. Leveling you and your friends up, even with runs that don't go well, is great, and it encouraged me to be experimental when things weren't going my way.
The downside of tackling the game through a series of runs are the repeated conversations. The dialogue changes a little bit each time you encounter the character you've been dreading talking to again and again, but I can only hear my childhood friend yell at me for not reaching out to her so many times. I could even sense Desta getting annoyed as they had to go over the conversation with their high school teacher they never properly thanked for the support again for the fifth time. The dialogue is well-written, the characters are fully realized and well-performed, and I was excited to see Desta overcome her anxieties--that excitement just waned as she did it again and again with the same people.
Desta: The Memories Between is an interesting follow-up to developer Ustwo's breakout hit, Monument Valley. It swaps the abstract, yet emotional storytelling for something more overt, but still dreamlike. The overall setup, visual aesthetic, and soundtrack is great and the tactical combat is fun, but repeated conversations make some of the runs feel like a chore, and sometimes the dodgeball feels more like a loose cannon. Desta's journey, however, is a relatable one and helping them complete it--even in a dream--was a cathartic experience that made me want to text that friend I had not spoken with in years.
Doom might be the most renowned shooter that launched in 2016, but the year also played host to another exceptional one: Devil Daggers. With a focus on the most basic attributes of a shooter, Devil Daggers shone with its extreme difficulty and exceptionally high skill ceiling, inviting run after run for hours on end. In many ways, Hyper Demon, the next game from developer Sorath, is the logical next step of that formula. It's every bit as grueling and engrossing, with even more mechanics to wrap your head around during its intense but short runs. It's also far more approachable than Devil Daggers ever was, making its compelling action more inviting.
While Devil Daggers was focused solely on survival, Hyper Demon is all about aggression. Each round starts with a timer at 10 seconds, which immediately begins to tick down. Each enemy kill increases the timer by three seconds, encouraging you to string together kills in an elegant way to keep the action flowing. The game doesn't end when the timer reaches zero; instead, your score is determined by the amount of time on the clock when you die (or manage to reach the game's ending). Passive play, though technically a lot safer, won't improve your standings on the leaderboard, so much so that some of your shorter, more unhinged runs might yield better scores than ones that lasted twice as long.
An expanded repertoire of mechanics, when compared to Devil Daggers, helps increase the pace of the action to match the new objective, too. Each round still plays out across limited floor space that you can easily fall off of, but you're able to move around it much faster thanks to air dashes and chained bunny hops, the latter of which can be done indefinitely if timed right. Being able to get close to enemies to blow them away is half of the challenge, while the other is determining how best to take them out quickly. Like Devil Daggers, you can hold down the shoot button for a steady barrage of bullets or tap it for a deadlier, close-range shotgun blast. These are enhanced with a laser attack that you can fire off if you stop shooting long enough to manually absorb crystals that enemies drop on death, offering a precise, long-range option for your trouble.
All these options are easy to grasp individually, but Hyper Demon demands they be used in harmony for you to really start climbing the leaderboards. Identifying efficient paths between enemies and anticipating where new ones will spawn is as important as having high accuracy, while understanding the behavior of each enemy will help you dispatch them faster. For example, the first enemy you'll encounter during each run is a floating well that spews out smaller skull foes while it's alive. It's easy enough to dispatch with regular fire from your hand, but that's usually not fast enough to ensure it doesn't spawn any other bothersome enemies. Instead, you can take aim at the crystal at its core with a precise laser shot (should you have one) to dispatch it immediately. The drawback in doing so is that it no longer drops that same crystal on death, which you can otherwise shatter to obtain a whole new laser charge.
Each of Hyper Demon's enemies feature these small decisions that you'll need to make when confronting them, which is more difficult when running around the arena while trying to both stay alive and remain aggressive. Initially it might seem strange that Hyper Demon only features four main enemy types, but it's routinely satisfying to figure out new strings of actions that let you bounce gracefully from one kill to the next, exploiting every weakness you find to speed up the process. The faster you kill enemies, the faster new ones enter the arena, letting you identify the order in which new enemies are introduced to try and figure out an efficient route through them.
Hyper Demon's ethereal visuals can initially be a hindrance to this. The beginning of each run is tame enough that parsing what is happening on screen is straightforward, but as each one progresses, the number of enemies and all their glowing appendages and flashing attacks become overwhelming. Couple that with the way light warps and matter bends when making last-second dodges (which come with a moment of slowdown) and it's easy to initially lose track of what you're looking at. But the more you engage with Hyper Demon, the more you start to realize how its visual design is a language you haven't yet learned. Its loudness also packs in many important details that you'll need to identify, like brief flashes of enemy eyes as they're about to launch an attack or the ghostly red outline of another that's out of view but about to strike from behind. Just like learning to effectively move around, you'll quickly start understanding each new layer of Hyper Demon's visual presentation, adapting to how ridiculous it can get the closer you get to the end of a run.
While a lot of Hyper Demon's intricacies are revealed through time spent engaging in runs, a robust training mode does a great job of introducing you to the game's mechanics. Each one is a small, self-contained puzzle that introduces a mechanic before tasking you to prove your understanding of it. This alleviates any confusion around how to play Hyper Demon, letting you focus instead on honing your technique from the get-go rather than poking around for an understanding as to how to pull off some of its essential tricks. Working in tandem with training is the fantastic replay system, which lets you see full runs from anyone on the leaderboard. It's humbling to watch the world's best time (which can often look like an entirely different game in the way that it progresses), but it's useful to learn from other players and pick up on new strategies that you can attempt to employ on your next run. Although the sole focus of Hyper Demon is to climb higher and higher up the leaderboard, the replays almost make it feel like a collaborative effort where everyone playing is also helping you get better in the process.
With its training stages and slew of player replays to help, Hyper Demon feels a lot more approachable than Devil Daggers ever was, despite it being a far more mechanically complex shooter. It's still one that's going to take some time to wrap your head around, and even longer to start mastering, but that path feels far more rewarding when you're working with the knowledge of all its systems and just honing your skill with each new run. It's immensely satisfying to add milliseconds to your best time, enticing run after run to try and nail a new route you've just discovered through the game's rich enemy types. Like Devil Daggers, Hyper Demon is an immensely satisfying distillation of shooter mechanics that is expertly balanced, and it'll be difficult to put down once you get going.
Essentially a protracted series of tactical battles, Diofield Chronicle's design falls into an early routine from which it is reluctant to deviate, while its fantasy world apes the war-room politicking of Game of Thrones with a focus on moving the chess pieces at the expense of credible character development. Flashes of progress are seen in its combat, and the occasional voice dares to question a realm ruled by divine authority, but both efforts are ultimately futile, crushed by an exhausting and relentless war machine.
As the name suggests, Diofield itself is a holy land--God's country--where the hereditary monarchy is assured by each new ruler sporting the Mark of the Blessed, a birthmark of sorts that appears to resemble a vein of precious gems. Yet a frail king and the murder of his heir has caused a succession crisis, with factions forming around several candidates while neighboring empires eye an opportunity to expand their borders. Armies march across a map straight out of the Game of Thrones opening credits while those in command conduct sober debate about their next power play. These are serious people making serious decisions, it seems to imply. Everyone involved speaks as if through clenched-jaw, and with curiously little emotion, a vocal performance that is perhaps meant to indicate the gravity of the situation but instead tends to suggest everyone is a bit bored.
Your perspective on events is through the eyes of Andrias Rhondarson, who is the boyhood friend and servant of the murdered heir, now grown-up and leading a band of mercenaries in the employ of the crown. Andrias makes for a dull lead, as he's disinclined to divulge his inner thoughts, while the ponderous, often humorless conversations he has with the rest of the cast do little to warm you to his plight, or anyone elses for that matter. In fairly typical JPRG style, few of the core cast look a day older than 18 yet carry themselves, whether debating strategy around the table or reflecting on the last mission, with the world-weariness of a pragmatic veteran general. It's laborious stuff and serves mostly to highlight the need for a quicker method of skipping through each scene.
Between missions you explore the sparsely decorated keep that serves as company HQ, collecting new missions, shopping for weapons and consumables, and upgrading the party's abilities. Helpfully, the map shows where missions can be collected and conversations can be held, as well as whether the merchant or research station have new items available, and you can fast-travel between locations in mere seconds. As you recruit new party members, this hub area gradually becomes more populated over time, but despite the presence of side missions to unlock additional features and a new area, it fails to feel like home. Not much more than a collection of bland, often empty rooms, the HQ is essentially a glorified menu. Returning to the hub ought to be accompanied by a sense of wonder at what might have changed or developed; instead it's more of a weary resignation that you're going to have to hop between hotspots while clicking through a bunch of boring dialogue.
Battles take place in real-time with the action pausing automatically when you issue a movement order or a command to use an ability. This can give proceedings a jarring stop-start feel, but it does allow time to think every step of the way and, crucially, make small adjustments--say, telling a character to step a few feet to the side to avoid an incoming attack.
The combat seems interesting at first but fails to develop, seemingly content to tread the same ground from start to finish. Surprises are limited to yet another wave of enemies rather than any attempt to chart new territory. Enemies boil down to two types--ranged and melee--with variations reduced to stronger versions and some very slightly different attacks. Your party members come in four classes: soldier (the defensive tank), cavalier (mobile damage), sharpshooter (ranged damage), and magicker (healing and buffs with some ranged damage). These characters require reasonably different tactics to maximize their potential. You're not just telling everyone to attack that enemy and sitting back; it's vital you tell your cavalier to flank the enemy and gain the ambush attack bonus, or to have your soldier provoke specific enemies into attacking her, or to instruct your magicker to cast Sanctuary on the ground your soldier is holding, or have your sharpshooter fire off a stun shot to interrupt an enemy preparing a special attack.
But as you progress deeper, the challenge of combat doesn't escalate in interesting ways. Sure, there are a few more enemies to face at once. Sure, they have a couple more tricks up their sleeve than mere basic attacks. And sure, there's the odd boss with multiple health bars. But there aren't that many more enemies, those extra tricks aren't all that new, and those bosses just take longer to kill rather than demanding a novel approach. For much of the last half of the game, I tackled every fight in much the same way, sticking with the same core crew and only making minor tweaks when necessary. There was no need to change because the missions weren't presenting me with any new challenges. Climactic encounters were handled in identical fashion in a way that initially felt satisfying, as if I'd solved the problem of the game's combat, before boredom set in at the absence of any friction to stall my progress to the end.
In the field, Andrias may be the group's leader but you can select any characters to comprise the party of four. Cleverly, you're not limited to your chosen four once a battle gets underway. In the setup phase you assign a support character to each primary party member, buffing their performance with passive stat bonuses and allowing them to activate the second character's special abilities. You can even, a limited number of times, swap out a character--primary or support--in the middle of a fight, a useful clutch move if someone's health is dangerously low or the situation calls for an ability specific to someone else.
With upwards of a dozen characters vying for battle time (I recruited 14 in my playthrough, though there may be more) it's also just a smart way to ensure that everyone is involved. Of course there's still a tendency to stick with your favorites, particularly since the primary party gains more XP, but it eases the burden of grinding missions (you can replay any once completed to tick off sub-objectives and earn gold and XP) to allow under-leveled characters to catch up.
The rudimentary map design exacerbates the problem. Terrain type is not a factor, despite missions taking place in cities, farmlands, snowfields, deserts and swamps. That patch of water or mud on the ground means nothing. You can fire a ranged weapon through or over any obstacle. High ground is no advantage. Everything is so flattened out that the combat arenas may as well be blank spaces. Maybe this wouldn't be such an issue if the mission objective required more interesting actions, but they almost without exception task you with killing all the enemies. Sometimes you have to activate a bridge to reach the next batch of enemies, occasionally there's an NPC to escort across the map and you have to kill all the enemies as you go, and very sparingly there's a point you have to protect while killing all the enemies.
Even when the story introduces elements that could potentially offer intriguing alternative paths, the mission format doesn't change. A nascent pro-democracy movement, born of angry common folk, is quickly characterized as a band of thugs and brutally quashed by your iron fist at the behest of the king. Empire soldiers, demi-human monsters, the walking dead, a group of angry peasant farmers; they're all dealt with in the same way: Deploy the mercs and slaughter anything that moves. Too many near-identical fights make for a tedious slog, and the late-game story twists that prolong the end credits only intensify the fatigue.
The Diofield Chronicle probably wants to explore ideas around how power is accumulated and how legitimacy is granted with its tales of warring lords and divine rights. But it never truly engages with them. Characters hedge around such issues, expressing tentative misgivings regarding the nobility of their mission before carrying on regardless. Similarly, in brief conversations, it gestures at the possibility of other ways to structure society, but never actually entertains them. With Andrias and his mercenary company the hammer that sees every problem as a nail, it makes for an unsatisfying narrative arc. Yet as you deploy the same tactics across what may as well be the same battlefield against pretty much the same enemies for the umpteenth time, it's an effective metaphor for the conservative and unimaginative game design.
Shovel Knight Dig is very unlike the retro action game that catapulted the character into indie royalty. But in a strange way, it feels like a natural extension of that game's mechanics and concepts. If the original Shovel Knight evoked the feeling of a lost platformer from the NES era, Shovel Knight Dig feels like a disruptive follow-up that boldly charts new ground for the series, instead of hewing closely to the source material. This isn't actually Shovel Knight 2, but it could have been.
The distinction is interesting because this game is another developer riffing on the Shovel Knight concept, but under the watchful eye of the original studio, Yacht Club Games. Nitrome has liberally borrowed some key elements from Shovel Knight, but this isn't a spin-off in the same way that last year's Shovel Knight: Pocket Dungeon was. It doesn't feel like the character is being transplanted into an entirely new genre; instead, it's reimagining what can be done within a similar framework and with the same level of mechanical precision.
Put simply, Shovel Knight Dig is a vertical roguelike, having you dig your way down into the depths of the underground to confront the nefarious Drill Knight, who has stolen something valuable from our hero. The story is slight and simple, and although Drill Knight's gang of "Hexcavators" is no match for the sheer wordplay bliss of The Order of No Quarter in terms of naming conventions, it works well enough.
The new structure recontextualizes the game, but it's still a platformer at heart, and it still controls remarkably like the original Shovel Knight. Lots of enemies and even bosses reappear in this game, too. They behave in the ways you'd expect, but with subtle differences to reflect the new mechanics of digging your way underground. It's like a magic trick: over and over you'll see things that are the same, but also different.
As a roguelike, most of your time is spent committing to individual runs, which you initiate by diving into a massive hole in the ground. Depending on your luck and skill, those runs can last anywhere from a few minutes to a half-hour. A massive machine is bearing down on the stage as you progress, threatening to destroy you, so you can't take too much time planning your perfect route or mopping up every enemy. When you're on the main path, you need to be making constant progress downward, while dealing with enemy encounters and collecting gems and gears.
The gems are the persistent part of the roguelike, letting you buy new relics that randomly appear in the stages, as well as permanent upgrades like extra carry slots and armor. Golden gears, three per sub-stage, are littered through the procedurally generated stages in spots that are a little harder to reach and require some creative problem-solving. You get greater rewards for collecting more gears, and if you get all three you can choose between a full heal and a random relic. Stages also have multiple side rooms where you can take part in a quick challenge for extra gems or find a vendor, and every stage has multiple breakable walls that trigger when you hit a weak point--absolutely vital to uncover secrets and find collectibles.
All these disparate elements are a lot to take in, and it was hard to find my footing while I learned the game's new rhythms and underpinning ideas. It doesn't do much to explain itself, letting you learn by doing, but in my case that meant doing a lot of the first stage over and over again. Despite this, it always feels inviting to take on one more run, and it's easy to lose yourself in plumbing the depths. Before long I went from struggling to even reach the first boss to easily dispatching him and moving on.
That sense of discovery lasts through the whole game, as each of the stages introduces new enemy types and even dirt to dig through. A fiery stage, for example, has patches of flammable coal-like dirt that will burn up in a cascading pattern if one of the fire-based enemies sets it ablaze. These dirt types get wildly creative in later stages: A magic-based stage had soil that acted as portals, and others that would shoot you in a straight line and ricochet off the walls. These combine into platforming challenges that are so fine-tuned that they feel handcrafted, despite being procedurally generated.
Learning a brand-new set of rules and wrinkles for each stage could be off-putting, but it's eased by the ability to buy shortcuts into stages. This being a roguelike, you'll probably want a fresh run from the top to accumulate enough upgrades to actually finish the game. But for the purposes of learning the ins and outs of a new environment, it's a handy tool. If you just need to put an area through its paces, you can also turn on the wealth of accessibility options, which offer everything from increased damage and health to turning down the game speed. There's no penalty for turning these on, and the game seems content to just let you have fun in whatever way you'd like.
The procedurally generated hooks even extend to the boss encounters themselves, changing the arena of battle in subtle ways each time you face a boss. My favorite of these was Tinker Knight, who retreats into a huge drilling machine for his second phase, peeking out of its many hatches to throw wrenches and presenting the opportunity to pogo off of him for damage. But the drilling machine itself was a mix and match of parts, with very different configurations every time I encountered it. It's an impressive trick that makes every run feel that much more engaging.
All of this makes it thrilling when you're on an especially good run. After some key upgrades in the earlier stages, I found myself sweeping my way through the later stages, having to learn new elements on the fly, and surprising myself when I finished it. That breathless sense of bareknuckle platforming followed by the relief and joy of accomplishment, like I had just gotten away with something I shouldn't have, was one of my favorite gaming experiences this year. Even so, I don't feel done. Branching paths means there are environments and bosses I haven't even encountered yet, and I still want to track down more upgrades and armor types. I expect to be playing this one for a while.
In that way, it is very much a follow-up to Shovel Knight. The original retro platformer was tough-as-nails at parts, but all the more rewarding for it. Shovel Knight Dig takes everything that was great about that game and pulls it apart, reshaping it into something new that's just as compelling and hard to put down.
A palpable fondness for the first two Monkey Island games emanates throughout every three-headed monkey gag and bout of insult swordfighting in Return to Monkey Island. It's the kind of love that trickles down from the top, as Guybrush Threepwood's latest adventure sees series creator Ron Gilbert welcomed back into the fold for the first time since 1991's Monkey Island 2: LeChuck's Revenge. The self-described grumpy gamer helmed development on this unexpected sequel alongside veteran designer and writer Dave Grossman and the talented team at developer Terrible Toybox. With this in mind, it should come as no surprise that Return to Monkey Island is tinged with nostalgia and leans into this wistfulness with obvious joy. It's also a thrilling sequel in its own right; one that sees the beloved series return in swashbuckling fashion by incorporating ideas both old and new.
Much like the earliest games in the series, Return to Monkey Island is a traditional 2D point-and-click adventure game built on storytelling and puzzle-solving. Hapless protagonist Guybrush Threepwood is back--older and only slightly wiser this time around. The intrepid pirate is also joined by plenty of returning characters, including his usual cohort Elaine Marley and zombie archnemesis, LeChuck. However, the most intriguing aspect of Return to Monkey Island is that it picks up right where LeChuck's Revenge left off.
In returning to the series, Gilbert and Grossman wanted to use this opportunity to finally shed some light on that game's cliffhanger ending, yet Return to Monkey Island isn't exactly a direct sequel, either. For one, it still takes into account the events of each Monkey Island game released after 1991, with characters like Murray the demonic talking skull making an appearance. How it does this and the way it structures its narrative framework is fascinating, but delving into specifics would encroach on major spoiler territory. Instead, I'll just say this unique approach adds a mysterious wrinkle to an otherwise simple tale, and the ending is no less provocative than the conclusion to LeChuck's Revenge.
The main thrust of the narrative revolves around finally uncovering the secret of Monkey Island. Guybrush isn't in a position to do so at the beginning of the game--being both shipless and crewless--so your first task is to find a way off the familiar Mêlée Island. This is easier said than done, and it doesn't take long for the story to spiral in multiple directions as the twists and turns and double- and triple-crosses keep piling up. The writing and performances from its returning voice cast are top-notch throughout, with most of the jokes landing even if they're not laugh-out-loud funny. Monkey Island's signature brand of absurdist humor is fully intact, whether it's riffing on past gags, touching on modern themes with its tongue firmly planted in its cheek, or showcasing a self-referential wit. There's also an earnestness to the whole experience that can't help but induce a permanent grin. For as much as nostalgia permeates its setting, characters, and music, it's also keenly felt in the game's heartwarming tone as it takes you on another goofy pirate adventure.
Seeing Guybrush stroll out onto Mêlée Island's lookout point, with the campfire burning and the bearded Lookout purveying the island, transported me back to playing The Secret of Monkey Island for the first time. You can still visit the SCUMM Bar and hear a sales pitch for the 1990 adventure game Loom, pass under the massive clock in the town square that remains stuck on 10 PM, and chat with The Voodoo Lady in front of her bubbling cauldron. There have been a few changes since Guybrush last stepped foot on the island's cobblestone streets, with a new, younger generation of pirates in charge and a couple of new proprietors taking up residence, but returning players will feel right at home, particularly as the soundtrack--arranged by returning composers from the series' past--invokes familiar melodies that first burrowed into ears decades ago.
Newcomers won't have this same immediate connection, but the series has always had a strong sense of place, and Return to Monkey Island is no different. Whether it's the jaunty Caribbean-inspired music or the amount of detail etched into every scene, Monkey Island has always had a distinctive feel. Much of this has to do with the game's evocative art style, which has been an unfortunate point of contention leading up to the game's release. Each entry in the series has always introduced a new art style to keep things fresh and re-introduce the world with a visual reimagining, and Return to Monkey Island does this with aplomb. Everything, from its characters to backdrops to items, looks like it was pulled from a colorful storybook, with expressive caricatures and gorgeous close-ups bringing the world to life with an eye-catching aesthetic.
It's a visual style that looks modern, and the same can be said of its gameplay, as well. The old SCUMM-based point-and-click interface of selecting different verb commands--such as "talk to" and "pick up"--has been replaced with a streamlined system that often gives you one or two context-sensitive options when interacting with an item or character. Bringing up your inventory lets you grab items and pull them into a scene, either to give them to someone, place them somewhere, or combine them with something. There's also a handy to-do list located in your inventory so you can keep track of your goals. It's all very intuitive and lets you focus on solving the myriad puzzles that Return to Monkey Island throws your way.
At the beginning of each playthrough, you're given a choice of two difficulty modes: Casual, which makes puzzles simpler by removing some of the steps needed to solve them, and Hard, which features more and harder puzzles akin to the games of the '90s. Whichever option you choose, Return to Monkey Island continues the series' tradition of challenging you with creatively abstruse conundrums to solve. They're rarely completely abstract, and there is a playful logic to most of the solutions. All of the puzzles are intertwined with the game's storytelling, too, with many often triggering a chain reaction where solving something for one character will open up solutions for others. Figuring out how various items combine together and then using them to crack a brain teaser is inherently satisfying, although there are a couple of puzzles that disappointingly reuse the same solution, and later on there's some back-and-forth travel between numerous locations that could've been handled more smoothly.
If you are struggling to figure out the answer to a specific puzzle, Return to Monkey Island introduces a magical hints book that you can turn to when completely stumped. Rather than pointing you to the correct answer straight away, you can ask this enchanted book questions to gradually receive hints that will help nudge you in the right direction. It sounds simple, but this system is rather ingenious. The game knows which puzzles you've already solved and what items are currently in your inventory, so each question and hint is tailored to your current circumstances. Using the hint system is also entirely optional, letting you ignore it entirely or lean on it only when you're truly stuck.
Return to Monkey Island is a game for the series' fans. There's a scrapbook on the main menu that recounts the events of past games, but it's light on specifics and feels more like a refresher course than a vital tool for newcomers to catch up on previous hijinks. Returning players will adore the fan service and familiar sense of warmth that permeates the whole experience, yet it still strives to make itself somewhat approachable for beginners. There's no denying that certain elements will be lost without that decades-old connection, but having a history with the series isn't essential to enjoy Guybrush Threepwood's latest escapade. Return to Monkey Island tells a wholesome and compelling tale of swashbuckling shenanigans that should appeal to anyone seeking a hearty adventure on the high seas.
A kid-friendly competitive multiplayer shooter was a strange concept when Nintendo introduced the very first Splatoon. The unique zone-control mechanics made combat important but somewhat incidental to the chief goal of covering everything in sticky goop. Painting the battlefield gave an immediate and intuitive visual sense of who's winning and losing without the need for a clunky scoreboard. That elegant design was the kind of delightful surprise that Nintendo has become known for. After two games and a major expansion, Splatoon 3 serves as a refinement and compilation of everything that came before it. It's less novel this time around, but it's still a delight and all comes together as the most robust Splatoon game yet.
Splatoon 3 assumes that you don't know all of this, of course, starting you off with a short tutorial that teaches you the basics of splatting before dumping you into the main hub area, a new city called Splatsville, in the heart of the desert Splatlands. From there you're encouraged to explore to learn more about all of the gameplay options and sites to visit, which is a little overwhelming at first. The city isn't terribly large--it is mostly a hub area for other game modes--but it feels dense with activity and nooks to explore. You can jump into the single-player campaign, co-op Salmon Run, or competitive multiplayer as you please.
The single-player serves as the best starting point for new players, since it gives you more opportunity to hone your splatting skills than the brief pre-Splatsville introduction. It's much more than a glorified tutorial, though; the campaign is lengthy and makes excellent use of mechanics to iterate and present new types of challenges.
The story follows your created character as the newest recruit in a team of special agents as they explore the island of Alterna, which is said to hold secrets key to understanding this post-apocalyptic squid world. There are some references to previous events and characters, but for the most part, the tale stands on its own. And true to its promise, it actually does explain what happened to humanity. Splatoon fans who have been itching to know why the world is now occupied by hybrid squids and octopuses will be pleased to finally get some answers.
The major thread in the story, though, has less to do with humanity itself and more to do with learning what's up with a giant, conspicuous rocket covered in fuzzy ooze. Progress through the campaign is achieved by exploring challenge stages, but to reach them, you need to navigate around or through the fuzzy ooze. Falling in will turn you into a Captain Caveman-like creature and result in instant death. Gathering your winnings in the stages can be cashed in to pop pulsating ooze bubbles, which causes a chain reaction to erase some fuzz and open new paths. It's all nicely elegant, and the system is flexible enough to let you opt out of a stage if it's giving you trouble and just find another.
The stage design itself shows a tremendous amount of creativity through the sheer variety of different kinds of challenges. The game ventures into bare-knuckle platforming, combat scenarios, and even light puzzle-solving, all without feeling foreign to its core paint-gun mechanic. The one drawback is the enemy design, which does not have enough variety to sustain itself over an 8-10-hour campaign. You'll find yourself facing off against the same handful of enemy types--with some minor variation--over and over. Despite that, the finale feels like an appropriately monumental conclusion, not just to this game but to the trilogy as a whole. Splatoon 3 amps up the scale of the final encounter to such absurd proportions that I couldn't help but laugh. It's also a test of skill unlike anything else in the campaign, which makes it feel both thrilling and also maybe a little bit cheap, given the sudden spike in difficulty.
The city itself, which is the hub for the story mode and the wealth of multiplayer options, can feel overwhelming. There's a handy shortcut feature in the menu to jump straight into whatever area you want, but it's also enjoyable to just walk around the city, discovering where everything is. It makes the city feel lived-in and complete in a way that a simple menu might not, even if it's a bit extraneous. Sometimes the frame rate seemed to drop slightly while I was exploring, though, so my Switch OLED hardware might be having trouble keeping up with the demands of a bustling city.
The traditional competitive mode, Turf War, is as frenetic as ever, pitting two dueling teams against each other for control of a single arena. The new stages that rotated in during pre-release multiplayer sessions fit right into the Splatoon milieu, with slightly more emphasis on verticality in spots to make use of the new Squid Surge maneuver, which lets you shoot up walls quickly. Splatoon has always made great use of cover without exactly being a cover shooter, because getting the drop on opponents behind a corner is so key to success, and the new maps are bursting with hidden alcoves and shortcuts that reward exploring.
To that end, Splatoon 3 feels more like it has thought through its place as a serious competitive game, giving top-tier players more tools to hone their craft. The Recon mode is easier to find if you want to learn the ins and outs of a map before jumping into play competitively. The new lobby system, where you wait between matches, lets you tinker with weapons and see their damage outputs on dummies, which may be helpful for less experienced players to find the one that feels right.
The co-op Salmon Run makes its return as well, now letting you play anytime you like instead of only during pre-scheduled events. As someone who prefers co-op multiplayer to competitive, this is a real highlight for me. Salmon Run is essentially a horde mode, having you take down encroaching waves of angry fish and collecting eggs to advance to the next phase of combat. It can get chaotic as you ratchet up the difficulty, but I haven't had enough time yet to determine if the mode ends up feeling too repetitive when I can play as much as I want.
It's also nice that Salmon Run gives you progress toward your catalog, rather than locking you purely into competitive multiplayer to earn new fashionable rewards. It doesn't, however, award weapons tickets for the competitive mode, so you'll have to earn those through Turf War itself.
That progress is stymied somewhat by frequent and unforgiving disconnects. In these situations, Splatoon 3 never made it clear who had dropped out, but any single player dropping on either team just immediately erases any experience you would have gained for the match, no matter how close you were to finishing it. It would also occasionally falsely accuse me of dropping out and warn me not to let it happen too often, when I hadn't let it happen at all. These problems were more prevalent in Turf War than in Salmon Run, which I can only chalk up to more rage-quits in a competitive environment, along with a bigger player count. Aside from the general frustration of cutting off a match I wanted to see through to the end, this can also slow your leveling progress--which I already found to be going at a snail's pace.
Once you've gained enough experience in Turf War, you gain access to Anarchy Battles, a whole new tier of objective-based modes with more complex rule sets. Those range from zone control to capturing clams and depositing them into your enemy base, and they provide a decent change of pace from the traditional Turf War battles. But since they're gated for veterans, they're also much more competitive and would be better suited for traditional shooter tools that Splatoon 3 lacks--like easy direct team communication and the ability to change your loadout on the fly. With these elements lacking or inconsistent, regular Turf War battles just feel more inviting and, for me at least, much less frustrating.
For an even more significant departure from the norm, you can take part in Tableturf Battles, a new minigame making its debut in Splatoon 3, and a standout original idea. The card-based game takes the traditional Splatoon concepts of aiming to cover the most area with ink, and approximates it with Tetrimino-like block configurations in an overhead perspective of the squared-off battlefield. You need to build a path of ink across the field of play, boxing in your opponent and covering your own zone with ink. It's a simple concept that, like Splatoon's core mechanics, are intuitive and easy to understand in an instant. I found myself spending multiple hours in Tableturf alone, and I had to will myself back to Turf War so that I could earn more multiplayer progress.
On the whole, Splatoon 3 hass a wildly inventive story campaign paired with a massive amount of multiplayer modes and options, making it the most robust Splatoon game so far. Though it creaks slightly under the weight of Nintendo's online infrastructure, this third game brings together everything that made the past games work, and even some new surprises like the stellar Tabletop Battles. It won't win over anyone who hasn't enjoyed past Splatoon games, but for newcomers and experienced squid kids alike, this one is worth diving into.
While at first glance Tinykin seems like a Pikmin clone, it'd be a disservice to write it off as such. Sure, the puzzle-platformer does share some elements in common with the Nintendo series (chiefly the helpful little creatures that give each game its namesake), but above all else, Tinykin is a collectathon that will charm anyone who put countless hours into Banjo-Kazooie, Spyro, and other '90s platformers. And this isn't the only quality that inspires a return to childhood--it also is set in a '90s style home that seems positively massive in the eyes of our pint-sized protagonist Milodane. With larger-than-life environments brimming with detail, life, and wonder, simple-yet-fun mechanics, and satisfyingly rhythmic gameplay, Tinykin is an original and exuberant experience.
Tinykin's story begins when Milo crash-lands on planet Earth. Unfortunately for Milo, this derails his current mission, and starts him on a new one to build a new ship so he can once again return to orbit. Fortunately, however, this 90s suburban home is filled with lots of friendly faces and happy helpers in the form of bugs and "tinykin." Tinykin, as the name suggests, are adorable little creatures that are always eager to be of help--which is particularly useful, considering the science-minded Milo's sole abilities are using his glider to traverse short distances, and sliding around on levels on his "soap-board."
Throughout your adventure, you'll encounter five different types of tinykin, each with their own unique power that can be utilized to solve different puzzles. Red tinykin, for example, explode upon being thrown into an object. While a bit sad if you think about it too long (or at all, really), it's certainly of help when freeing other tinykin from cages, blasting holes in walls, or breaking the posts that keep ropes from touching the ground. And if it makes you feel better, the red ones are the only kind that uh, can only be used once.
As you explore each level, you'll acquire a plethora of tinykin and stumble upon countless obstacles that require you to have a specific number and kind to continue. This leads to a satisfying back-and-forth, as you find creatures, unlock a new part of the map, identify the next "locked door," and then search the current area to find more tinykin. Despite the sizable maps, finding tinykin and the areas you've yet to explore is fairly easy thanks to the other collectibles and missions located throughout the level that help guide you to where you need to go. Most bountiful are the game's pollen clusters, which you can use to then give to a merchant in exchange for improving how far your glider can go. This ultimately allows you to access previously out-of-bounds locations and, you guessed it, collect more pollen, tinykin, and other collectibles. It's the kind of rhythmic gameplay that reminds me of the '90s platformers I referenced before, and with simplistic controls and quality of life features that keep the game fairly easy (such as simply being sent to whatever surface you fell off of when you meet your demise), it's extremely smooth to play and friendly for players of all ages and skill levels.
As you leave each level, the tinykin you've collected stay put, as they are "not the bravest'' according to your friend and mentor Ridmi, and don't like to leave home. Which, I mean, same. However, this is not the only thing that makes each level feel distinct. Each of Tinykin's six areas are inhabited by a different species of insect, feature their own unique color palette, soundtrack, and are set in a different part of the house. The Waters of Balnea, for example, is set in the house's restroom, features some fantastic, jazzy tracks, a cool-toned palette punctuated by pops of bright violet and neon blue, and plays host to two different types of bugs: the no-nonsense beetles (led by Partypupa, naturally) and the party-hardy silverfish. As you can imagine, cohabitating isn't the easiest for these invertebrates, which leads to our hero Milodane having to intervene on more than a few occasions.
However, the levels never feel excessively bogged down by characters or side-quests. Sure they exist, but you don't necessarily have to talk to every creature you stumble upon--though you're in for a few treats if you do. Among my favorite easter eggs in the game, for instance, are a couple named Jack and Rose (who ask for you to give one another a risque sketch and large board to float on) and a chef named Remy. Rather Tinykin forgoes diving too deep into story in lieu of letting you partake in wondrous exploration, gathering up random objects, solving puzzles, and traversing mountains made of toilet paper and vinyl records as you do. While I imagine you could beat the game in under four hours if you did only what was required of you, each level was engaging enough to hold my attention for well over an hour as I tried to find every last secret tucked away within them.
Another key part of what kept me exploring is simply how beautifully designed and intricate the levels are. The game's art style--which features 2D characters atop vibrant 3D backgrounds--is delightful, and how abundant each level is in verticality and little hideaways creates a world you love to traverse. While not as vast as your modern day open-world RPG, there were so many moments of "oh, I can go there" that I wasn't necessarily expecting. There also comes a point where you begin to feel a sort of immense satisfaction in getting to a place perhaps not in the way the game intended by using tinykin or flexing your platforming skills.
If there's any place Tinykin stumbles, it's in how frequently you might actually stumble. Considering the game is predominantly a platformer, it can be grating when the controls aren't always the tightest and you find yourself tumbling off a platform because you didn't hit the exact spot you intended to. Thankfully, numerous checkpoints and how forgiving the game is with your fall alleviate some of that tension. I also found myself frustrated at times by how precise you need to be to talk to NPCs. While so much of the game is smooth and seamless, I would have to stop and get into position in order to interact. Because the story is tertiary to the gameplay and overall experience of Tinykin, this wasn't egregious, but I can't help but think maybe I would think more highly of the bare-bones story (or perhaps find it less bare-bones) if interacting with these characters felt easier.
However, as an experience, Tinykin is anything but lacking. The collectathon is a delightful callback to '90s platformers with just the right amount of new ideas and iterations on pre-existing ones. Its charm, light-hearted humor, impressive level design, and overall tone create a game that feels both nostalgic and new, and perfectly captures the exuberance of gaming as a wide-eyed kid.
I've never envied the development cycle that comes with working on an annual sports game series. When you consider how much time and money goes into any other big-budget project, asking a studio to constantly churn out a game that is both functional and consistent but also fresh and exciting every single year seems unfair. NBA 2K23 is incredibly impressive regardless, but even moreso in light of this tight dev cycle. With a deep suite of fun game modes, improved on-court gameplay, and a deeper social experience, it feels like the team at Visual Concepts managed to freeze time and spend longer than the typical cycle on this exceptional NBA sim.
It's hard to know where to begin with NBA 2K23 because, in ways both big and small, there's a lot of new stuff to see. For me, though, it starts with The Jordan Challenge. For the first time since NBA 2K11, you can relive highlights from the career of the greatest player in NBA history. More than just a rehash of a mode absent for over a decade, this renewed Jordan Challenge is like a modern remake of that original concept.
Beginning in his college career at North Carolina, you'll play through 15 of Jordan's biggest games and work to recreate statlines and other outcomes like a time traveler seeking to not disrupt the proper timeline. Where Jordan dropped 63 on the Celtics and set a playoff scoring record, now so can you. Where he won his sixth and final NBA title, you too can perform his last dance. These and other forever-on-replay basketball moments are yours to relive.
Conceptually, this is as it was before, albeit now with five more games than the original iteration, but the finer details are where The Jordan Challenge really shines in 2K23. Era-appropriate filters, retro on-screen graphics, and even long-gone arenas and fittingly-dressed spectators work together to transport players to the time and place of each game spanning the '80s and '90s. Before each game, the Visual Concepts team includes new interview segments with players, commentators, coaches, and others who witnessed the greatness of Michael Jordan firsthand. Collectively, it gives the whole mode the feeling of an interactive museum to unrivaled basketball achievements, and playing it has been the first time in my life that a sports game gave me goosebumps.
This allows you to position your team to draft or trade for the contemporary or incoming stars of each era and recreate basketball history from that starting point, like creating alternate realities where Larry Bird played for Philly or Jordan never retired for two years in the middle of his prime. The league will change as you go, too, with rulebooks getting updates, dominant play styles changing over the years, and teams relocating--or not, if you decide your NBA alt-universe keeps the Sonics where they belong, for example.
Both The Jordan Challenge and this new MyNBA feature, called Eras, represent ways this year's game feels like it goes above and beyond. Other sports sims just aren't offering this type of content for their players. It's a remarkable thing and feels handled with care and attention from a studio that must be full of real basketball fanatics. The love of the game is pouring out of these two modes and would merely by themselves qualify NBA 2K23 as a must-play for basketball fans.
Though these marquee features are by no means small, NBA 2K has long been a series that sweats the small stuff, too. Wildly lifelike player animations, best-in-class commentary, and unmatched broadcast-style presentation all return with impressive added touches, like different commentary teams depending on which mode you're playing. NBA 2K has long put some other sports series--which I won't name, but you can probably guess--to shame with such attention to detail, and these little things have an outsized effect in the end, making this series the most enjoyable sports game every single year.
Those touches separate this series from the pack even when NBA 2K itself was sometimes lacking in the actual basketball gameplay, but concerns regarding last year's overemphasis on shooting have been addressed. Though the NBA itself generally favors the three-ball in real life, that's not the case for all players, of course. But last year's game made sharpshooters out of anyone with an open look. It was unrealistic and altered what is arguably the most important aspect: online pick-up games with friends and rivals. 2K23 focuses largely on giving power back to the strong finishers and slashers of the league, preventing back-to-back years where everyone looks like Steph Curry.
Modeled after the play of Bucks forward Giannis Antetokounmpo, this year's game feels better balanced right away for different play styles. Those who aren't natural shooters have regressed to something more realistic, while those who lean into the paint and bully defenders now feel just as dominant as a shooter from behind the arc. In turn, this has made online PvP games more enjoyable, as they no longer feel like three-point contests.
Knowing that, the team has designed this year's game to give you narrative reasons for running around The City completing quests for dozens of NPCs like it's an RPG. You'll be winning over districts of fans like a San Andreas turf war, but here your weapons will be charity work, endorsement deals, and the occasional viral tweet.
After years of The City (and its predecessor, The Neighborhood), the mode still feels like an accomplishment. Like The Jordan Challenge and MyNBA Eras, this social hub is something only NBA 2K is doing and helps separate it from the rest of the pack, making it easy for fans of multiple sports games to know where to invest their time with tons of modes and attractions, some of them rotating in on a daily basis. The big new addition is The Theater, which is the place to head for limited-time modes with oddball changes to scoring or the rulebooks. The City does return a few nagging issues, however.
First worth mentioning are the game's modes of transportation. For those who don't want to run from quest to court and vice versa, skateboards and bikes are back, but they control so poorly--and always have--that I'm more likely to stay on foot and accept the speed decrease. Thankfully, new fast-travel points have been added in the form of subway stations and this year's city is actually about 30% smaller due to fan demand for a more dense cityscape. Still, both quests and travel distances will sometimes call for using skateboards, but they're frustratingly unwieldy. It's odd to complain about a basketball game's skateboarding mechanics, but it's a choice to include this kind of stuff, and this year's game has not resolved this long-standing issue.
If you're not new to the series, you likely already know how invasive the microtransactions (MTX) are. Even at its past heights, the pay model has been the thing taking this series down a peg or two, and it's still an issue here. The problem is twofold. On one hand, the game's MyTeam mode is just as bad as any comparable mode such as Ultimate Team in EA Sports games. It's pay-to-win, without a doubt, given how any player can simply buy up unlimited card packs until they've landed a dominant team. But the game's MTX continue to dampen The City, too, as the same Virtual Currency that can upgrade your squad in MyTeam can also dramatically improve your MyPlayer protagonist too.
As that player eventually migrates out of the story and into The City, it causes a MyTeam-like rift between those who grind for greatness and those who paid their way up the ranks. It's clear some percentage of players may prefer the game lets them upgrade right away, but then to have to face them in The City's courts and other PvP modes feels like getting stuck in a first-person shooter lobby with wall-hackers and aimbotters. Making it so the same currency buys tattoos, repaints skateboards, and upgrades your player feels like a long-broken feature that the game just keeps returning to each September.
The City is also smothered by product placement in a way that is so over-the-top it would be hilarious if it wasn't giving me such a dark preview of the so-called metaverse. Virtually everything is a commercial, from Gatorade and Nike to Mobil and Nokia. It feels like I can't even high-five a teammate without it being brought to me by Mountain Dew.
These issues, especially due to their persistence year after year, do hinder NBA 2K23 from being historically great, but for annual players who have gotten used to these problems, they'll likely sting less. What remains after you forgive (or just try to forget) those issues is undoubtedly still an exceptional basketball game made with an intense attention to detail and a love of the game. On the court, NBA 2K23 looks and feels lifelike and exciting in every drive, and the new and revamped modes treat the NBA like a revered historical monument. In those important ways it does its best to reflect Jordan's greatness and shows both NBA newcomers and historians what it's like to play like Mike.
At first glance, Metal: Hellsinger may look like little more than an imitation of 2016's Doom, from the general demon-killing and Hell-inspired aesthetic right down to the searing pace of its action. Doom is an obvious inspiration and apt comparison, but Metal: Hellsinger adds an extra layer of depth to its shooting by structuring all of its moving parts around music. You play as a demon who's fighting through Hell on a revenge mission, and you deal more damage by shooting enemies to the beat of a song. The more precise you are about keeping rhythm, the more your Fury multiplier will grow and the more your overall score and damage output will increase. To help you achieve this, there are pulsating icons on either side of the crosshairs that match up with the rhythm of the song. If you're on beat, you'll be graded with either a "Good" or "Perfect" attack, with the latter dealing the most damage and adding more to both your Fury and score.
Beyond the nitty-gritty of its mechanics, however, killing demons in time to a song's rhythm is just incredibly satisfying. There's an added oomph to the sound of your weapons when you're on beat, and increasing your Fury has a direct impact on the music, too. As the multiplier escalates from 1x up to 16x, the music builds until eventually reaching a rip-roaring crescendo as the vocals kick in and the song's full arrangement is unleashed, battering your eardrums with the kind of guttural vocals that perfectly fit the game's demonic aesthetic.
It feels like you're the driving force propelling the song forward with each kill, and reaching this point and maintaining it requires you to fall into a zen-like flow where shooting to the beat almost becomes second nature. BPM: Bullets Per Minute scratched a similar itch, but Metal: Hellsinger refines the concept and is unlike anything I've ever played, especially when you compare it to the moment-to-moment gameplay of traditional first-person shooters. Instead of shooting at every moment possible, you have to do so when it makes sense musically. Even dashing and reloading in time with the beat builds Fury, as do the Doom-style executions that reward you with health. You're essentially rewiring your brain, but it's so intuitive and responsive that when it all clicks, there are few shooters quite as gratifying.
It helps, of course, that the soundtrack absolutely shreds. All of the music in Metal: Hellsinger is composed by the duo of Elvira Björkman and Niklas Hjertberg of Two Feathers. Björkman and Hjertberg play bass and rhythm guitar on each track, while Dino Medanhodzic handles lead guitar and Adam Janzi (from the band VOLA) is behind the drums. There's also an all-star selection of metal vocalists lending their talents to Metal: Hellsinger, including Randy Blythe from Lamb of God, Alissa White-Gluz from Arch Enemy, Matt Heafy from Trivium, Serj Tankian from System of a Down, Mikael Stanne from Dark Tranquility, and my personal favorite, Tatiana Shmayluk from Jinjer, among others. Getting to hear new material from some of the best vocalists in the genre is a treat, especially when it's so intertwined with the gameplay.
Each level has an original song associated with it, and they run the gamut of different styles and subgenres of metal. This adds variety but also feels like a nod to the various vocalists involved. For instance, Burial at Night--the song featuring Tatiana Shmayluk--has some prominent bass-slapping that's reminiscent of many Jinjer songs, while the Alissa White-Gluz track features harmonized guitars (and the catchiest chorus on the soundtrack). All of the songs are excellent, though, to the point where I would happily listen to the full soundtrack outside of the game.
The songs are somewhat limited by the game's conceit, so don't expect any thrash metal or tempo and time signature changes from the drums. Altering the consistent beat that runs through each track would make Metal: Hellsinger nigh on impossible to play. Your arsenal of weapons does change how often you can fire, though, lending each firearm its own sort of cadence. The Persephone shotgun, for instance, has a slower rate of fire, so it can only shoot on every other beat, while The Hounds dual revolvers can fire on every single beat until you need to reload. This makes each weapon feel like an instrument in and of itself, and the sounds they make--whether it's the rewarding crunch that accompanies each perfectly timed shot or the musicality of every weapon's reload--only reinforces this sentiment. Every aspect of Metal: Hellsinger makes you feel connected to the music.
When you're in rhythm, you'll notice pyro bursting out from the floor like you're in the middle of a Rammstein concert. And some of the enemies pulsate with an orange glow along with the beat. These are nice touches that make the game world feel more reactive to your performance, but the level design itself is rather formulaic. Each level consists of moving from one combat arena to the next until you eventually face off against a boss. Maybe deviating from this formula would've proven problematic, considering the rhythmic nature of the whole game, but it does make your trek through the bowels of hell feel rather samey. The same can be said of its boss fights, too, as each one pits you against the same skeletal bat-like creature, with the only visual fluctuations occurring on its head. Each one peppers you with projectiles you need to evade before summoning a wave of enemies, and while this is exciting the first time, it doesn't take long before each boss fight is little more than a bland footnote at the end of every level.
I completed Metal: Hellsinger in four hours, so at least these issues aren't compounded by the concept being stretched too thin. Despite its short duration, however, the scoring system and the inclusion of leaderboards add a lot of replayability, especially since the game functions more like a dedicated rhythm game than a shooter with musical elements tacked on. It's easy to fall into a rewarding loop built around improving your score and moving up the leaderboards that's not too dissimilar from playing something like Guitar Hero. There's also an interesting score breakdown at the end of each level that shows different stats, like the percentage of the level you spent at 16x Fury, the number of kills you achieved on the beat, or the longest hit streak you mustered. This shows the areas you can potentially improve upon next time around, but also factors into the game's Torments, Sigils, and Boons.
There's also a story that's told via static cutscenes in between levels. It's a campy tale of revenge featuring warring skeletons, fallen angels, and the southern drawl of Troy Baker's narration. The latter gives the narrative some life, and the illustrations used throughout make it feel like you're traveling through a Dio album cover. It's neither bad nor good, it just kind of exists to add some meaning to all of the wanton demon-slaying.
You know that rare moment in video games where your actions unintentionally line up with the music you're listening to, whether it's the game's soundtrack or your own? Metal: Hellsinger bottles up that magic feeling and repeats it over and over again without the satisfaction ever fading. The interplay between its chuggy metal soundtrack and high-octane gameplay is phenomenal and quite unlike anything else I've ever played. It stumbles at times, and these issues hold it back from reaching Rob Halford-esque highs, but its execution of an idea, and the way this transforms the moment-to-moment action of a shooter into a rhythmic slaughter, props up any of its faults. If Metal: Hellsinger is a metal album come to life, then I can't wait for this band's sophomore effort.
If there's one thing Kirby is known for--apart from being "friend-shaped" and adorable--it's the little guy's insatiable appetite. Kirby's Dream Buffet hones in on this aspect, creating a game all about chowing down on tasty treats as fast as you can. While the title seemingly draws inspiration from a variety of games, most notably Fall Guys, Beautiful Katamari, and Mario Party, it succeeds in differentiating itself from the rest and feeling quintessentially Kirby with its lighthearted, food-centric, and fun tone. However, for all of its charms, Kirby's Dream Buffet suffers from quite a few issues--most notably, a serious lack of content and incentives to keep playing. While rolling around as Kirby is enjoyable, the experience feels more like a light snack than a well-balanced meal.
Kirby's Dream Buffet begins atop a table adorned by pastel-colored pastries and sweet treats. After rolling off your plate and onto the gingham-patterned tablecloth, you can browse through a variety of supplemental features or roll straight on into one of the game's three play modes: Battle mode, Online mode, or Local Play mode.
In Battle mode, you and up to one other player can take on CPUs for the chance to take the cake--literally. Online mode, on the other hand, pits you against players all over the world through either random matches or password-protected private games. However, if you and your buds are all in the same room, you can also do Local Play, which allows up to four separate consoles to play the game together.
Despite these differences, all these modes consist of the same three events: races, minigames, and battle royales. In a Gourmet Grand Prix--essentially the default way to play--two races, one minigame, and a final showdown via battle royale are combined to form a cohesive experience, after which four Mario Party-esque awards are dished out and one Kirby is crowned the heavyweight king. However, regardless of what event you select, how you go about playing is essentially the same: You roll around, collect fruit, and attempt to either out-race or outlast your opponents.
While competing, there are two things that can give you an edge: collecting fruit and rolling over item boxes. While picking up fruit earns you the points you need to win the game, it also increases your Kirby's size, allowing you to cover greater ground as you move while also giving you a bit more weight to throw around when bumping into other players. Item boxes, on the other hand, will give you a consumable you can use to get ahead. These items take the shape of different foods you can use Kirby's signature power absorption ability on. These include healthier snacks, such as hot peppers, which cause you to coast through the course aflame, as well as delicious-looking donuts that allow Kirby to take the shape of a wheel.
All these aspects combine to create a game that is actually quite fun, in the moment. While the controls are a bit wobbly, it feels like a deliberate choice and ultimately adds to the excitement of the matches. Dream Buffet also succeeds in taking some great ideas from a few series--such as the random, game-changing awards dished out at the end of Mario Party--and combines them into something new. That feature in particular (along with how each race concludes with some first-come-first-serve dishes of strawberries that can drastically alter the number of points you have) consistently gives players opportunities to make a huge comeback. While this could be irritating for more competitive players, I found it kept the game lighthearted and fun.
Unfortunately, this is about where my excitement for Kirby Dream's Buffet's ends. While there are four difficulties you can set the CPUs to--sweet, normal, spicy, and extra spicy--none of them are particularly challenging. Even worse, the game tends to have connectivity issues during online matches, meaning not even human opponents can put up a proper fight. All this paired with how few differences there are between courses and minigames means that Kirby's Dream Buffet grows repetitive very quickly. For example, when I pulled the game out for a family game night, each one of us could play about two Gourmet Grand Prix' each before we were ready to move on to another, more engaging party game. It didn't help that only two at a time can play the game locally, which feels like a missed opportunity.
As for what else you can do in Kirby's Dream Buffet, the list is not long. Outside of the main events, you can pop by Free Rolling mode (which acts as a sort of training ground), change your costume and color, and check any rewards you've earned. These rewards primarily consist of new costumes, which are cute enough, but don't do much to offset the repetitive gameplay and incentivize you to continue playing. And that's it. Not even an options menu is included in the game, meaning if you need any sort of accommodations, you're out of luck. While handling Kirby in ball-form is meant to be a bit tricky, the game doesn't account for anyone who might need extra assistance, button remapping, or visual aids. This is even more egregious when you see how small some of the text is in handheld mode.
In short, a lot of what Kirby's Dream Buffet relies on is its adorable aesthetic, which, to be fair, is where it shines. The pastel-colored paradise is filled with food that, while not quite as tempting-looking as something from a Studio Ghibli film, is a visual treat. There is an exuberance that shines through while you play, making the experience feel distinctly "Kirby." Also in typical Kirby fashion, the music is delightful, being composed of upbeat and somewhat jazzy tunes. However, for all its charms, it's a bit frustrating that every level has the exact same aesthetic. While it's understandable that the game wants to keep its soft and sweet visuals, you can't help but grow weary of every course delivering just that, with no real color palette changes, unique songs, or any sort of gimmick that sets them apart. The result is something that feels uninspired.
Dead humans and livestock litter the muddy cobblestone streets of Paris, their corpses left discarded in rotting piles or with muskets in hand where they took a final stand. Scattered fires burn bright across the city, each one sending suffocating black smoke billowing into the night sky. The only living residents are hunkered down in barricaded houses and shops, cowering from the clockwork automatons now prowling the ruins of the French capital. It's 1789, and in Steelrising's alternative history, the tyrannical King Louis XVI has suppressed the French Revolution by unleashing a mechanical army that massacres the populace, reinforcing his rule with literal iron fists.
This unique dark fantasy setting helps Steelrising stand apart from its many contemporaries. 2022 has already seen a slew of Souls-likes, with games such as Tunic, Salt and Sacrifice, and Thymesia each offering a different perspective on the genre. The latest game from French developer Spiders--a studio known for creating action-RPGs such as Greedfall--is derivative in its design, featuring all of the familiar elements we've come to expect of the genre. But Steelrising impresses with the way it's able to combine so many disparate elements together and make them all work.
You play as Aegis, a mechanical masterpiece and bodyguard to Queen Marie Antoinette. Unlike the mindless automatons roaming the streets, Aegis has a conscience and a form of free will, so you're sent into the heart of Paris to find your creator and fight fire with fire to put an end to the king's despotic bloodshed. From the outset, you choose from one of three classes that dictate your starting weapon and attributes, opting to be a powerful bodyguard, a quick and lethal dancer, or an alchemist who shoots enemies from afar. Aegis is malleable enough that it's fairly easy to switch playstyles after this initial choice, although it's difficult to experiment with different weapons, particularly once you're a few hours in, because upgrade resources are so pricey and base-level weapons aren't feasible later in the game. This is a shame, since it's the variety of weapons at your disposal that have the most significant impact on combat.
Steelrising will feel familiar to anyone used to the Souls-like style of measured combat and thoughtful encounter design. Your offensive repertoire consists of both light and heavy attacks, including a charged attack that's slow but deals heavy damage. A responsive dodge lets you weave out of danger, but Steelrising doesn't have a dedicated block button; instead, each weapon has either an attacking or defensive special move. I spent most of the game using Aegis' steel fans, which, when combined together, form a shield that can block enemy attacks. Other weapons, such as dual swords, maces, and heavy wheels, utilize other special moves like counters and lengthy balletic attacks. Because your choice of weapon might not always give you the chance to defend yourself, combat in Steelrising promotes aggression above all else. The pace of each fight is still relatively slow, but Aegis is enjoyably mobile as you dodge and jump to avoid incoming blows before replying with your own attacks.
Each of these actions is governed by a familiar stamina system, but a well-timed button press when your endurance is depleted will top it back up by instantly cooling your internal mechanisms. The only drawback to this is that if you use it too many times in quick succession, your cooling system will freeze you in place and leave you wide open to attack. Not only is this a tonally clever addition, but mastering the mechanic helps to keep you on the front foot. This is key, because Steelrising also features an auspicious staggering mechanic known as Immobilisation. By giving an enemy no reprieve, you'll fill up a diamond-shaped gauge until it reaches a breaking point, at which point your unfortunate foe will become immobilized and vulnerable to a high-damage critical strike. There's a rewarding rush of adrenaline that comes from wailing on an enemy and tacitly using your cooling system to maintain your offensive onslaught, only to then finish them off with a decisive flourish.
Though each of these mechanics is geared toward an aggressive fighting style, Steelrising is still a traditional Souls-like, focusing on deliberate combat against tough enemies who can't be underestimated. Each enemy requires consideration to defeat, at least until you've learned their deadly-yet-exploitable attack patterns. There are dozens of enemy types, too, some of which have been cleverly designed to further inform you of the world prior to its current state. For every machine wielding conventional weaponry, there are others that clearly served a different purpose in everyday Parisian life, like the musical machines that reduce you to scrap with their trumpets and violins or former lampposts who now use their metal braziers to crush anything standing in their way. Your natural inclination might be to get behind each enemy, but some can twist their bodies 360 degrees to catch you off-guard, subverting a classic Souls-like strategy to keep you on your toes. Fighting multiple opponents at once is interesting as well, since different enemy types can inflict damage on one another. I would often try to position myself in such a way that they'd lend an unintentional helping hand by striking each other when trying to hit me.
Enemy movements are notably jerky and sometimes stiff, with some overly exaggerated wind-ups for attacks, but this is all in keeping with the game's clockwork aesthetic. That said, Steelrising's combat doesn't always feel entirely fluid. Aegis' animations don't flow together as smoothly as one might hope, which takes some getting used to, and actions like swapping weapons aren't always the most responsive. It's something I eventually adapted to, however, to the point where it never felt detrimental.
In fact, the telegraphed nature of enemy attacks and Aegis' mobility compared to the majority of enemy types meant I found Steelrising easier than most other Souls-likes. Mistakes are still punished accordingly, but it doesn't take long to accrue a massive amount of healing items that will keep your health topped up in between battles. If you are struggling, there is a handy Assist Mode that allows you to adjust different factors to tailor the game's difficulty to your liking. You can change how quickly stamina replenishes, or reduce the amount of damage enemies can inflict. You can also opt to keep your Anima Essense on death--which is the resource you use to purchase upgrades and is lost upon death if you don't recover it--to alleviate some of the challenge. The difficulty debate around video games, and Souls-likes in particular, is a dull one with a needlessly stubborn side, but Spiders joins a list of developers that are finding innovative ways to help more people enjoy the genre, which can only be a good thing.
The only time its difficulty negatively impacts gameplay is during Steelrising's disappointing boss battles. The visual design of each boss is fantastic, whether you're facing off against a giant monstrosity with a guillotine for a body or a bishop armed with a massive Bible on a chain. Defeating them is surprisingly rote, though. It's easy enough to stand behind each one and dodge at the appropriate times with little resistance, and grenades make things even easier. It doesn't take much to purchase these varied throwables, and you'll gather plenty as you explore each area. Then it's just a case of standing back and peppering each boss with explosives until they're dead or close enough. This is a balancing issue more than anything, but even if you forgo the advantage these items and tactics bring, Steelrising's boss fights are still simplistic and bland.
As you explore the various districts of a deserted Paris, you'll unlock gates and shortcuts that circle back on one another, and upgrade Aegis' attributes and weapons at Vestals that respawn any enemies you've already defeated. There's some backtracking involved as you return to previously explored areas, but the maps open up once you unlock various abilities like a grappling hook, air dash, and a powerful kick that can knock down unstable walls. This adds some verticality to the level design that sometimes forces you to think upward. Platforming is a tad finicky but never demands much from you. However, it's hard to escape the feeling that the maps are more like intricate mazes than lived-in neighborhoods now in the midst of political carnage. You'll find the odd note, but otherwise, any sense of environmental storytelling is absent.
There's some refreshing variety to these environments, at least, with sandbanks running along the Rhine, extravagant gardens at the Louvre, and opulent mansions torn asunder. For the most part, though, you'll be exploring the tight confines of Paris' blood-soaked streets. With no in-game map to peruse, backtracking often devolves into a chore when you're trying to find a location you previously visited five hours earlier on one of many similar-looking streets. You do have access to a compass that provides waypoints for the main quest and any side quests you've undertaken, but this doesn't always point you in the right direction. There's also the fact that some side quests can only be accessed after you've reached a particular point in the story, yet the game neglects to inform you of this vital tidbit. I thought I had stumbled upon a glitch when trying to open a gate leading to a side quest, but the reason it wouldn't unlock was because opening it was part of a later story mission.
These faults are frustrating, mainly because they waste time, but they don't completely deter from Steelrising's unexpected charm. You can be cynical about Spiders' brazen inspiration of other Souls-like games--yes, it's derivative, and it's all too easy to get hung up on the similarities--but once you look past resemblances and notice the differences, you'll see all of the ways in which Steelrising stands out. From the disparate parts that make up its satisfying combat, to the wonderful setting and worldbuilding that meshes dark fantasy with alternative French history, there's much to enjoy in what sets Steelrising apart from its peers. It's one of the better Souls-likes in a now-crowded genre.
There's a moment in movies where a restless, investigative protagonist falls down a proverbial rabbit hole and unveils a startling truth, reframing everything they thought they knew. The allure of Immortality, much like other games from Sam Barlow and Half Mermaid, is that it casts the player in this exciting role and builds to its ultimate unveiling. It's borderline impenetrable at times, as both the basic A to B plot and its greater themes are much more opaque than the team's prior puzzles. And yet, it's not really worse off for it. Despite--and sometimes because of--the dizzying effect of falling down the rabbit hole, Immortality becomes another standout narrative. It's similar to its predecessors, Telling Lies and Her Story, in some key ways, but more thought-provoking, too, and certainly more unnerving than you'll be prepared for.
Writing this review has proven difficult because virtually all of the game feels like a spoiler. I can allude to things, such as the game being scarier than I would've guessed, but I can't really tell you why. I can vaguely mention the story's dramatic turns, but given the scattered timeline, you may not see certain moments yourself until long after I did. I can at least explain how this game works, because if it's the first time you’re experiencing a game from this small team, it's going to feel completely alien.
Playing Immortality is like operating an old-fashioned Moviola machine, once used by editors in filmmaking but now repurposed to let you scrub through hours and hours of vintage live-action movies in an attempt to solve a mystery: What happened to Marissa Marcel? As a fictional 17-year-old actor making her movie debut in late '60s Hollywood, Marissa was primed to be the Next Big Thing, but over the next 31 years, she would only be cast in three movies, and none of them ever saw release.
Figuring out the why of the matter is up to you, and using this Moviola machine, you'll rewind, fast-forward, pause, and zoom in on any detail of your choosing in any given scene. Doing so will bring up a similar image from elsewhere in the archives, so in one moment, clicking on Marissa's face when she's portraying Matilda in 1968's Ambrosio may bring you to a table read for 1999's Two of Everything. Clicking on the same scene at another point, including even on Marissa's face in a different frame, may bring you to 1970's Minsky instead.
You can't foresee where the Moviola machine will take you next, but you'll soon understand that it's best to explore faces and objects that seem interesting to you. The point is to keep finding new scenes by clicking on different things, and then clicking on elements of those new scenes to find more scenes. As you watch more and more footage, you'll start to piece together the larger story yourself.
These three movies are intermixed without any sorting beyond the dates on which they were recorded, but it's enough to start to form the multi-layered narrative across several hours of playing. On one level, it's necessary to figure out what the three movies are each about, because doing so informs the cast and crew's mindsets, their artistic inspirations, and maybe their darker sides. But the footage you'll uncover extends past the movie scenes themselves. It also includes auditions, behind-the-scenes moments, and, well, you'll see.
Like Telling Lies and Her Story, things you think you've come to understand will routinely be undermined by information you learn as you continue digging. Each recontextualization feels like a startling end to a chapter in a great book. Is this a crime drama? A horror story? A love story? It's a bit of all three--and more--at different times. It plays like most literature reads, in that it's more concerned with its underlying themes than its plot.
Immortality's no-wrong-answers approach to unraveling its many threads is perhaps less rewarding here than in past Half Mermaid games, on account of how confounding it remains right up to the very end. But it's more riveting for the same reason and left me dwelling on what I saw versus what it wanted me to understand. I don't feel Immortality intends to be a game that leaves players misunderstanding what happened, but because it has a definitive end point, you can reach its conclusion with less clarity than someone else who played for the same number of hours.
The footage from 1968 and 1970 feels incredibly authentic, with film grain, muffled audio, dated camera techniques, and authentic set dressing to send players virtually traveling through spacetime. Though the 1999 movie is much more recent and thus requires a much different approach than the other movies, it too manages to feel like a time capsule from a bygone generation.
Performances across the board are excellent, and by working with unknown actors, Half Mermaid smartly keeps players from being distracted by recognizable faces. Marissa is said to have disappeared, after all. The illusion of a mystery waiting to be solved doesn't work as well if it's Anya Taylor-Joy performing the role of the vanished actor.
When you consider that each actor in the game is playing as many as three or four characters across the whole timeline, it's really unlike anything else that's been done before in games, even among the team's prior works. The general opinion of live-action games is that they come off as awkward half-movies, half-games that do neither medium justice. For the third time, Sam Barlow's team defies that stereotype with a thoughtful script, brilliant actors, and a player-driven Pandora's unboxing.
There are moments in this game about which I can't go into detail, but they are the main reason I've given this game the high score you see below. The first time I came upon an example of a particular game mechanic, I jumped out of my seat with excitement, alerting my wife that what I thought Immortality was going to be had dramatically changed in an instant. Even once I learned how Immortality works, it continued to surprise me with what it would show me, what it would tell me, and best of all, what it would refuse to tell me, leaving me to dwell on it long after I finally discovered Marissa's fate.
Every August, a new Madden launches with some major marketing buzzword attached. It makes for easy back-of-the-box material and quickly answers the question: "What's new in Madden this year?" These named features often fail to live up to their proper noun naming conventions, but in Madden NFL 23, that's not the case. This year's buzzword-y feature, Fieldsense, emcompasses several other features under its wide umbrella, with all of them relating to how it feels to actually play and move around on the field. In that regard, Madden 23 is a clear step up. But several other aspects of the game, including both returning issues and new problems, keep the game from achieving its full potential at launch.
Fieldsense is not one feature but the name for a collection of on-field improvements. Among them, the biggest and most enjoyable leap forward is the new Skill-Based Passing system. This is meant to remove some of Madden's attribute-driven outcomes and transfer decisiveness to the player. On the field, this is done by giving players a new throwing meter and shadowed target area that appears as the ball is being thrown. It allows players to pinpoint directly where they want the ball to go like never before--a bit like fielding in MLB The Show. Excitingly, this feature lives up to its promise, allowing skilled players to skewer defenses and hit gaps in coverage like never before in Madden history.
A wonky tutorial does this feature no good, making practice best done in a live setting. After a few quarters or games with Skill-Based Passing enabled, it becomes blatantly obvious that going back to the old system, while an option in Madden 23, is never a good idea. It allows the QB to keep a pass in front of the cornerback on a crossing route, hit back-shoulder fades in the end zone, and sneak into the space between two defenders' zones in ways that, in years past, almost always resulted in turnovers. I'd go so far as to say Madden 23 is worth playing for this feature alone, because throwing the football, something you'll do 15-40 times per game, has never felt so good.
Fieldsense also applies to other aspects of the game, including new tackling mechanics that remove some canned animations and give defense a more physics-based feeling. This too feels better than before, though it does result in a number of silly looking tackles as a result, with more ragdoll-like players sometimes performing ridiculous falls. The game is better off with this style, however, as the game's old shoestring tackles and pre-canned wrap-ups where you knew whether or not you got the first down before the play ended are fewer and farther between.
Making cuts with ball carriers also feels better, allowing a skilled player to ease off the sprint button at the line, making a great cut through the hole, then taking off and leaving defenders out of position. This applies to kick and punt returns too, which are suddenly not rote 25-yard returns anymore. In my first week with the game, I've seen a more realistic array of outcomes on returns. Many get past--even well past--the 25 now, including some touchdowns, which previously felt almost impossible despite that being unrealistic.
The pass rush in Madden 23 is amped up too, in a way that helps contain the franchise's legacy issues of a QB having an entire lunch break's worth of time to throw the ball. Pressure can be generated with just three or four rushers if they're good at their jobs, helping bring Madden closer to reality, where QBs tend to only have about two or three seconds at most to get rid of the ball. AI pass rushers also smartly disengage blockers when the player QB applies the sprint button with the QB, signaling that they intend to scramble out of the pocket.
Collectively, this helps tame some of Madden's most meta-defining, but unrealistic, play calls, where a shifty passer would wiggle over to the sideline, avoid the rush entirely, and wait for a wideout to beat a defender on a comeback route five or more seconds into the play.
Madden 23 is a better on-field experience without a doubt. But some of its modes and peripheral features are still lacking in such a way that feels unfathomable for one of the world's biggest video games based on one of the world's biggest brands. In Madden Ultimate Team (MUT), new Field Passes have been added, which act as free battle passes that reward you more consistently game by game, week by week. These are meant to appease the crowd that decries MUT as pay-to-win, and while they are helpful, the mode is still a mess of microtransactions, where one player can grind for 40 hours to buy a card another player can just purchase at will.
On top of that, though the Field Pass rewards come often, they're dispersed unevenly and only after frustration. You might need to play one more game to complete a challenge and earn your next Field Pass reward, but at the end of the game, there's currently a guaranteed delay in when you actually get the reward. Worse, the reward screens are constantly buggy, revealing no information--the game will often just briefly sit at a purple-pink background screen as though you're given pertinent information, but it winds up being more like a loading screen, never showing you what you actually unlocked until minutes or even full games later.
The Field Pass system is meant to copy MLB The Show's Programs, which are cited as the reason its card-collecting mode is the best in the sports gaming world. I can see how Madden's Field Passes could be similarly game-changing. Earning more frequent and better cards for free is certainly a welcome feature--this is the first year I plan to put hours into MUT after review season, so it must be doing something right. But right now, broken menus that share no information and rewards that come too late take what was meant to be gaming's latest overt Skinner scheme and turns it into a jumbled mess of systems that feel undercooked.
In Franchise mode, the big changes come during the offseason, where more control over college scouting and more chaos in free agency are meant to deepen the experience. Free agents will now consider more than just money and team prestige when deciding where to sign. They'll also take into account factors such as where they'd be on the depth chart, whether a team plays close to their hometown, whether the team has an elite QB, and whether or not the state takes income taxes. These are fun additives, but mostly just reimagine the previous system, expanding a free agent's list of relevant factors from about three to about eight.
The scouting improvements are more crucial, including the way your automated scouts now reveal pertinent information to each prospect. You don't really need to know a receiver's tackling ability, but after last year's big scouting update introduced this system, such unnecessary data were exactly what you'd get sometimes. This year, scouts will hone in on the key attributes that matter to each position you're looking at, giving you a better sense of each player come draft day.
Franchise does still struggle from two things introduced last year, though. For one, the pre-game team scouting report is still liable to share totally wrong information. In theory, knowing a team's tendencies to, for example, throw it short, middle, or deep gives you an excellent advantage. In practice, it doesn't matter when the game is so often displaying false data, even as it seems designed to only base its numbers on the previous game--which itself is an issue, as gameplans can vary wildly in a league full of more human players than AI.
The frustrating M-Factor system returns and seems once more to be unable to be turned off. Last year, M-Factors were introduced as a way to gamify momentum swings by giving teams boosts like better ball security, or negatively affecting the opponent's ability to call hot routes. Unlike X-Factors, which do well to simulate the way elite players can take over a game, M-Factors are usually arcadey messes that have no real-world counterparts. In a series striving for authenticity, it's odd that this unrealistic feature returns as an untouchable element to games, especially since Franchise mode can be so customizable in other ways.
In the story-heavy Face of the Franchise mode, EA Tiburon continues to feel directionless. Ever since the unintentionally goofy Longshot storyline was introduced in Madden 18, the team has struggled to deliver a story mode worth playing. Seeking to rival NBA 2K's much better MyPlayer mode, the last few years have taken a more laissez-faire approach, giving players story snippets but not putting them on rails like Longshot did. The result is, once more, forgettable. This time, the premise has you signing a one-year "prove it" deal after your rookie contract's team option wasn't picked up. It's a novel way to start the story, since they so often focus on rising stars or injury-hampered rookies. But in the end, there's just not enough here to justify the mode's inclusion.
The end goal is to join Madden's 99 Club, which you can do in just a few seasons and without much story at all. In my first instance of the story mode, I was strangely traded just two games into the preseason, which seemed to reduce the amount of story content I even saw after that, causing me to start over so I could know if this was a scripted moment. Apparently, it wasn't, which left me wondering why it's possible. It's routinely felt like Face of the Franchise is developed to merely check a box, and this annual half-measure brings nothing of value to the mode in Madden 23, unless you really like running up the stat line with your custom player every single week. In that case, you're better off playing Franchise unless you also enjoy playing The Yard, which is once again affected directly by your player's skill increases in the story mode.
The Yard itself returns virtually unchanged. It's a short-game 6v6 arcade-like mode for players who don't enjoy the sim-heavy aspects and want something a bit closer to the long-dormant NFL Street. Since it was added two years ago, The Yard has dwindled in importance quickly, seemingly because much of the community ignores it. Therefore, Madden 23's instance of the mode feeds this endless cycle. Players ignore it, so it receives fewer meaningful updates, which, in turn, causes players to ignore it more, and so on. The Yard is at least present though, whereas Superstar KO has virtually been removed from the experience, diluted down to a limited-time mode that plays quite like it within MUT but seems destined to rotate in and out of the game all year.
In total, this year's Madden is a lot like the past decade of Madden in that it suffers a number of self-inflicted wounds and returns features that were unpopular in years prior. However, it's crucial to reiterate, on the field, Madden genuinely feels great for the first time in a long time. The changes to Franchise are helpful but not revolutionary, the MUT Field Pass system is promising but janky at launch, and other modes are largely forgettable. This would all present quite a lackluster view of the game if not for the impressive on-field leap it performs. The improvements on gameday make Madden 23 a flawed game, but clearly an improvement in the series' most important way: the actual playing of football.
The original Jetpack Joyride released during an early apex of the mobile market. Small but quality games were successful, and the platform was not yet overrun with free-to-play gacha games. Jetpack Joyride represented a nice middle-ground, offering a fun core mechanic great for high score competition without overbearing microtransactions. In the 10 years since it was released, the market has changed. Premium games now struggle on mobile and while the most successful titles may ask for less money, they do it more often. Jetpack Joyride 2 could have pivoted to fit this new, profit-focused model, but instead developer Halfbrick opted to bring the game to Apple's Arcade subscription service. This means it won't ask you for a dime and it is also, surprisingly, no longer an endless runner. The new structure, with the familiar jetpack gameplay, is a fantastic choice that absolutely makes a better game, but it unfortunately is not yet complete, leading to a sudden and disappointing non-ending.
The core mechanic of Jetpack Joyride 2 is the same as the first. You, as Barry Steakfries (or the alternate reality female version, Betty Beefpies), sprint down a long hallway using a jetpack to move up and down and avoid obstacles. All these years later, narrowly dodging electric traps and missiles while the spray from your jetpack knocks over the scientists with the bad luck to get in your way is still an immediate blast. The change, however, is the sequel has levels, bosses, some light RPG mechanics, and even a shallow story. An endless mode is promised at some point in the future, but right now Jetpack Joyride 2 is a game with a campaign. The change is surprising considering the success of the first game (which still receives updates), but I like it. Beating levels is more frequently rewarding than having a series of bad runs before you finally have a good one, and the bosses are a fun additional challenge to cap off every few stages. Different levels also means stages look different as you progress, so you no longer have to stare at the same background while jetpacking.
Bosses, and levels to a degree, are overcome with Jetpack Joyride 2's other surprising new mechanic: Guns. About half your time is spent dodging obstacles, while the other half is spent shooting. This new mechanic fits in well and feels natural. This is partially because Barry and Betty shoot automatically, meaning you just have to line up your shot. It makes the shooting a basic extension of what you're already doing, and blowing up a robot with bullets as you drop below a passing missile feels great. The shooting action is even more fun against bosses as you both speed down the hallway exchanging fire.
Between jetpacking your way through assorted science facilities, you are using your collected coins to upgrade jetpacks and weapons. The various upgrades feel like they were conceived for a free-to-play game, as you exchange tokens for random weapon upgrades which you then need to buy with coins. Having different types of currency is never fun, but without real money backing them up, I enjoyed managing it and making decisions about what I wanted to upgrade and when.
A facility is also unlocked early that automatically generates the various types of currency, even if you're not playing. Dictating where the facility spends its resources and occasionally tapping away invading aliens and putting out fires so it can continue is a very simple, minor management sim, but I enjoyed not thinking about it for a few runs and checking in to find a nice cache of coins waiting for me.
The story of Jetpack Joyride 2 exists as a very soft context for what you're doing, but it is nothing noteworthy. Barry and Betty converse with the boss characters between levels with a line or two of consistently unfunny dialogue and will occasionally chat with a friendly scientist. The conversations are short enough that it thankfully does not become annoying, but it also doesn't add much to the forward momentum.
The story is tertiary to the fun gameplay, but I was still disappointed when the game suddenly ended. Once I defeated the third boss--after about eight hours of gameplay--I was greeted with a coming soon sign and no worthwhile incentive to continue playing. By the time I had beaten that last available boss, I had maxed out my level and unlocked the best jetpack. I believe developer Halfbrick when it says more content is on the way, but I was surprised at how abruptly it concluded with no fanfare. Jetpack Joyride 2 doesn't end, it just stops.
Despite the abrupt ending, I had a great time with Jetpack Joyride 2 up to that point. I am eagerly anticipating what gets added to the game next and fully plan to play it. The addition of gunplay and the new campaign-focused design makes the sequel feel fresh while bringing forward what was so fun about the original all without making any gameplay sacrifices. I just wish it was a complete package.
It's been nine years since Saints Row IV was released, pitting the 3rd Street Saints against an alien invasion that featured superpowers, time-travel, Matrix-style simulations, and the complete destruction of Earth. Where do you go after a game so ridiculous and outlandish? After a period of absence, rebooting the series sounds like a logical next step, and that's exactly what developer Deep Silver Volition has done with this new, stripped-back Saints Row.
It's still not "realistic" by any stretch of the imagination, but it is slightly more grounded. However, you still shouldn't envisage finding many of the modern trappings of open-world games. For as much as Saints Row differentiates itself from the bombast of its past few entries, it still closely resembles a game from the same era, leading to an experience that often feels stale and dated.
For the most part, this isn't something you could level at Saints Row IV's approach to freedom around character identity and gender, and this has carried over into the rebooted Saints Row. The character creator lets you design pretty much any person you want. There's a broad range of prosthetic options, various types of vitiligo, a number of sliders for body options that do away with binary gender selection, a choice of six distinct voices, and the ability to make an asymmetrical face, to name just a few of the available options. You can also hop back into the character creator at any point and change your entire look. This sounds like an insignificant feature, but it isn't always a given and speaks to Saints Row's focus on inclusivity.
You can create a character that represents you, or simply delve into some of the more eccentric customization options and devise a creation with metal skin, demonic eyes, and glowing red hair. There are already some fairly accurate recreations of Shrek being shared, just to give you an idea of how exhaustive the process is.
Once you've finished creating your ideal gang boss, you're thrown into a story centered around four young friends who share a dingy apartment and commit crimes to try and make rent. Saints Row adopts an anti-capitalist stance and touches on some socially conscious issues throughout its first few hours, with characters bemoaning their crippling student debt and lack of health insurance, while also taking a satirical swipe at toxic corporate culture. Alluding to these issues makes the cast somewhat relatable, but it doesn't take long before you're building a criminal empire and discarding these topics in favor of more outlandish endeavors.
While the main character is a self-described murder machine, the rest of your friends are well-rounded and avoid falling into a pitfall of homicidal archetypes. The perpetually shirtless Kev, for instance, is obsessed with food and music, regularly talking about the kitchen appliances he hopes to buy when not busy DJing a party. Neena, on the other hand, is a mechanic who loves restoring classic cars but also has an appreciation for art and an interest in gallery curation. Then there's Eli, the strategist and aspirational entrepreneur of the group. He's averse to violence but spends his off-hours LARPing in the desert and shooting like-minded individuals with foam bullets.
The heart of Saints Row has always resided in its characters, and the dynamic and playful banter between the friendship group is the highlight of the story. They may be violent criminals, but they're the kinds of people you wouldn't mind hanging out with and provide a bright spot in an otherwise unfulfilling narrative. The overarching plot is fairly boilerplate and plays out as you would expect. It's anticlimactic, too, as most problems are solved with relative ease, adversaries are simply dealt with, and more than a few loose ends remain unresolved. After the previous two numbered games in the series were imbued with such creativity, it's disappointing that the storytelling in this reboot is so humdrum.
While the story does touch on some modern social trends, the gameplay feels dated. Much of Saints Row feels like a throwback to the open-world design of a decade ago. Its third-person shooting is adequate, but it's tough to get a good feel for the aiming when playing on a controller. The reticle is always slightly too finicky, even after fiddling with the sensitivity settings to try and find a sweet spot. It's something I grew accustomed to over time, but the best way to approach combat is by making liberal use of the auto-aiming assistance that locks onto targets when aiming down sights. This makes it easier to execute headshots and trigger the satisfying splat that accompanies them.
The arsenal of weapons at your disposal is rather lackluster, however. There's the usual assortment of pistols, SMGs, and shotguns, but there's little reason to deviate from the starting assault rifle. The inaccuracy of the SMGs only compounds the game's awkward aiming, and the shotguns feel decidedly weak and are irritatingly slow to fire--an issue when most enemies soak up damage. The base assault rifle excels in any situation, so it quickly became my go-to for the majority of the game, especially since neither of the upgrades for it were all that appealing due to their slower rate of fire.
Fortunately, the addition of whimsical skill moves does spruce up combat quite a bit. By completing missions and earning experience points, you level up along a linear progression path where each level unlocks a new skill move. You can assign up to four at once and utilize them in combat by killing enemies to accrue the Flow points you need to activate them. These points fill back up relatively quickly, so it's unlikely you'll ever be left wanting for a chance to use one of these skills.
The first one you unlock lets you grab an enemy and stuff a grenade down their pants before heaving them back towards their buddies, which is especially useful for crowd control, on top of just being fun to do. Other skills range from a powerful flaming punch to an anti-gravity device that launches enemies into the air and leaves them defenseless. The standard weapons are lacking, but these skills add some much-needed variety to combat that shake up the familiar routine.
For the most part, these skills also incentivize you to push the attack and mix it up in combat, and this is something the game factors into its health system. Your health bar is divided into separate chunks. Your health will recharge automatically if you don't sustain damage for a few seconds, but it will only refill up to the nearest checkpoint--whether that's one-third of your health, two-thirds of your health, and so on. To get more health back, you need to kill enemies by getting up close and performing a stylish execution. You can only use these cinematic takedowns once before the ability needs to charge, but kills recharge the meter much more quickly, so you're encouraged to create mayhem in order to better heal yourself.
There's no cover system, only a roll that can help you avoid weapon fire, so combat is all about staying on the front foot and being aggressive to survive. It's at its best when things are frantic and you're overwhelmed by enemies converging on you from all sides. This happens more often on higher difficulties, but the checkpoints in campaign missions are so unforgiving that the tradeoff doesn't seem worth it.
When not shooting people, most of your time is spent behind the wheel of various vehicles. Driving in Saints Row feels overly floaty, but this was never a hindrance to my enjoyment of cruising around the city. There's a dedicated drift button that lets you swerve around corners with ease, and the addition of a sideswipe attack makes vehicular combat more exciting. Having to shoot and drive at the same time has never felt good in these types of open-world games, so being able to shunt cars off the road and watch them explode in a fiery blaze is a marked improvement on what's come before.
It helps, of course, that the fictional city of Santo Ileso is so visually appealing, mixing towering skyscrapers with quiet suburbs and large swaths of desert. Set in the United States' Southwest, it calls to mind places such as Albuquerque and Reno while being distinctly its own. You can see the influence of Mexican culture in some of its architecture and the beautiful murals adorning certain buildings, while the neon lights of its casinos cast a seedier vibe. It's a shame, then, that the city doesn't produce the emergent action that would give it life. This goes back to the game's archaic feel, where you spend much of your time simply driving back and forth between missions.
A significant part of Saints Row's campaign revolves around various Criminal Ventures. Once your startup is up and running, you can purchase these ventures to generate more money and gradually grow your business. You start off with a car dealership before being able to acquire a restaurant, laundromat, toxic waste disposal service, and more. Obviously, each one is a front for illicit activity, and it's your job to help out with that side of the business.
You need to steal food trucks full of drugs for the Chalupacabra restaurant, for example, while the car dealership tasks you with jacking specific vehicles around the city. These missions initially seem optional, providing you with another avenue to earn some cash. Before long, however, your progress through the campaign is gated by missions that require you to have purchased and completed a number of these Criminal Ventures. I always had multiple missions available, so it never felt like this halted my progress; the main issue is that these ventures are decidedly milquetoast.
Each one usually involves driving from A to B with only minor variations between them. Sometimes you're being chased, other times you have to avoid the police by dodging their big red circles on the mini-map. Either way, it's a lot of driving from point to point, over and over again, and it doesn't take long to become tedious. Some of the ventures offer a little variety, like the clothing brand that asks you to take pictures of different materials, or the medical clinic where you commit insurance fraud by throwing yourself into moving vehicles. The latter has featured throughout the series before and is the best of the bunch; the rest are just bland.
The traditional story missions add more impetus by engaging in action-movie hijinks, but the mission design still feels like a relic of the past. One early mission sees you assaulting a convoy by leaping from car to car to make it up the line. This sounds like an exciting set-piece, but in practice, you're just shooting static enemies before watching a short cutscene of your character making an untroubled jump. These missions are still enjoyable at times, but there's always this nagging feeling of déjà vu because it all feels so familiar.
Even when its creativity shines, it's let down on the gameplay side. One of the Criminal Ventures you can purchase involves Eli's Mad Max-inspired LARPing exploits. These missions are combat-focused and stand out because everyone is committed to role-playing. Your previously violent executions now consist of fake punches and pretend-chest-bursting, and your arsenal is replaced by toy weapons that fire foam projectiles. Later on, there's a giant cardboard worm that knocks people over with its roar, and there's an excellent recreation of the greatest death scene in movie history. I loved everything about this quest line except playing it. Despite all of these changes, combat is very much the same, only you're forced to use bad weapons that take twice as long to kill people. Saints Row has a lot of good ideas, but it restricts itself by not being ambitious enough from a gameplay perspective.
It's also worth noting the open-world jank that comes with the territory. There's everything from characters that appear as floating heads to NPCs getting stuck in walls, broken vehicle physics, and enemy AI falling apart to the point where they don't realize you're there. For the most part, these are minor oddities that don't significantly hamper the game, but I also ran into a few more serious issues. During one mission, the scripting failed and left me trapped with no door to go through, while restarting at the nearest checkpoint caused the game to crash. There was another instance where a vehicle I had to destroy was indestructible, and a few other cases where a mission wouldn't progress.
Saints Row reins in the absurdity to a fairly significant degree but still manages to indulge in some of the chaotic action and silly hijinks the series is known for. Its story is simple and fairly predictable, yet spending time with its diverse and well-rounded characters makes it worth seeing through to the end. It's a shame the gameplay isn't quite as progressive, opting instead for out-of-date mechanics and level design. Combat is decent, and the story missions are enjoyable when at their most over-the-top, but there's too much bland filler in between. Rebooting the series made sense, yet in many ways, Saints Row is still stuck in the past and struggling to live up to its legacy.
